Dom      -of
The World Bank
FM OMFCL USE ON
Report No. P-6337-MZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECIUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMNIT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBILC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
SECOND ECONWMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
MAY 18, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6337 MZ
Type: 140P
This dcuent has a resticed distibuon and may be ased by recipiets ondy in the perfomanee of
hdeir official daties. Its contents may not othevise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCYEQ             T
Currency Unit = Mozarnbique metical (Mt)
1975                     27.24
1980                     32.40
1985                     43.18
1986                     40.43
1987                    289.44
1988                     528.60
1989                    819.71
1990                   1,038.15
1991                   1,435.00
1992                   2,433.00
1993                   3,723.00
ABULYIIVI 4,IOiS
Agricom State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BFE    Banco de Fomento e Exterior
BM      Banco de Mogambique/Bank of Mozambique
BPD    Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento/People's Development Bank
BPA    Banco Portugues do Atlantico
BSTM   Banco Standard Totta de Mogambique/Bank of Standard Totta (Mozambique)
CFM    Carainhos de Ferro de Mocambique (national railways)
contc   One thousand meticais
CPI    Consumer Price hidex
EDI    Economic Development Institute
EFRMTA Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance Credit
EMOSE Empresa Mogambicana de Segui os e.e./State-owned insurance company
ERP    Economic RehabDitation Program
FS CB Financial Sector Capacity Building
GDP    Gross Donestic Product
GTZ    Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IFBM    Instituto De Formacao Bancria de Mogambique
MP      International Monetary Fund
LAM    Linhas Aereas de Monambique (national airline)
MoF    Ministry of Finance
Mt      Metical/meticais - currency of Mozamoique
NBFI   Non-Bank Financial Institution
OTC    Over the Counter
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SAF    Structura Adjustment Facility
SERC   Second Economic Recovery Credit
SPA     Special Program of Assistance
SDC    Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA    Swedish International Development Authority
SME    Small and Medium Enterprise
SOCIEF Sociedade de Investimentos e Estudos Financeiros
TA      Technical Assistance
FISCALXEAR
Govemment = January I to December 31



FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (SERC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROGRAM SUMMYARY ........................................   i - i-n
P4RT I:  INTRODUCTION .......................................  1
PART II: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .              .................... 2
A.    Recent Economic and Social Performance ..........................  2
The Pre-Adjustennt Situation  .......................... .         2
The First Economic Rehabilitation Program 1987-1989  ....... ... .   2
Economic Recovery Program 1990-93 ............ .                   3
Structural Reform .    ...................................   5
Stabilization ...................  ................... 8
Recent Social Developments .............          ..........  8
B.    External Envirownent .......................  9
C.    Mozambique's Development Objectives and PolicieL .10
D.    Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy     .........................  11
Status of Policy Dialogue    ..............................  11
Enhancing Goverment's Capacity ..        . .....   13
Other Areas of Special Operational Emphasis .    .      .         14
Portfolio Performance and Management ..                           16
Level and Composition of IDA Assistance ....   19
Cooperation with Other Donors ....   20
IPC and MIGA Acdvities  ...     ... ..................  21
E.    Agenda for Board Consideration  ........          .............  21
This report is based upon the findipgs of an apprasl misson which veM        ique l
in McWApril, 1994. The mision conssted of David Cook (Divison Chief), Luis de
Azearate (Senior Advior), Rene Bonnel (Senior Economist), Kishor Uprety (Legal), Eric
Brown (Disbursnement Officer), Simon Bell (Task  rMager and Senior Fnadial
Econo_t), and Carol Oost0l    (Consutnt). The lead advisor was Lus de Azcarate
and the peer reviewer was Hennina Mardnez. Secrtaril support was provided by Joyce
Chins     Mr. David Cook is the maagin  Division Chief, and Mr. Stephen Denning Is
the Department Director for the operation.



PART mU: SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDEf ...................                   .  23
A.    ObjectivesandSStraegy ........................            .......... 23
bB.    PolicyAgendaoftheSERC  ....................... 24
Macroeconomic Maagemen bic Expendt             and External Aid  ... 24
Monetuy Policy and Strengtenig the Centra Bank.25
The Financia Sector .29
Enterprise Sector Refom .34
C. Description of the Credit .39
Borrower and Credit Amount .39
Tranching .39
Disbursement and Procuremen .39
Program Management. Monitoring and Accounts .40
Key Actions that were Undertaken by Negotiationss .40
Monitorable Actons .............. 41
D. Benefits and Risks .43
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION                                 .4



ANNEXES
I.   ANNEX I.
Letter of Development Policy         ....................................   46
U. ANNEXH.
Policy Matrix - Actions to Support the Second Econonic Recovery Credit ......  62
m. ANNEX m.
Key Macroeconomic and Social Indicators .......      .....................   69
IV. ANNEX IV.
Previous Adjustmnt Operains in Mozambique .......................  74
V.  ANNEX V.
IDA and IFC Lending Operations in Mozambique ....................    76
Vl. ANNEX VI.
Matrix of Development Objectives and Instnrnts ......................   81
VIL ANNEX V1.
Mozambique: Lending and ESW Program  ..........................   83
VI. ANNEX VU.
SERC Supervision Plan  ......................................   84
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS IN THE TEXT
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators  ............................   7
Table 2: Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management ....    18
Table 3: Nominal and Real Lending Rates In Mozambique ................   27
Table 4: Commercial Bank Share of Total Assets, Loans and Deposits .... .....  30
Table 5: Ownership and Performance of the thirty Largest Banking System Clients .   35
Chart 1: Macroeconomic Data ...................................  4
Chart 2: UTRE Action Plan for 1994/96 ...........................   38



MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDfT
PROGRAM SUEMMARY
BORROWER:              Republic of Mozambique
BENE:FICIARY:          Republic of Mozambique
AMOUNT:               IDA Credit          SDR 141.7 million (US$200 million)
Switzerland        CHF 10 million
United Kingdom     GBP £10 million
Demnark            Dkr 40 million
TERMS:                 Standard IDA terms with a 40 year maturiy, including 10 years of grace.
DESCRIPTION:           The proposed credit will contie to provide support for the
Government's Economic and Social RehabilitationProgram (ESRP). The
objectives of the credit are to support macroeconomic stabilization
through the strengthening of key elements of fiscal and monetary policy
while suporti  an interlinked program of enterprise and financial sector
reform. The credit has four components. First, it will support the
development of integrated sectoral programs in the three key areas of
agriculture, health and education. The urgent need to suWort emergency
programs has led to fragmented donor assistance. With peace and
stabilit, it is now necessary i develop budgetary priorities within these
key sectors, and ensure that capital and recurrent expenus can be
supported through the budget. Second, the program supports the central
bank in its key centrai baing functions of monety policy management,
baning supervision, legal development, accoundng - while contiuing
the strengthenig and the streamng of the foreign exchange
management and allocation process. Third, the program supports the
development of a competitive, efficiently functioning, and traly
commercial banking system. New banldng entry is being encouraged and
the existng state owned banks are being "commercializedw and prepared
for privatization. Fourth, the program accelerates the privaization
program with particular atention being paid to the larger state owned
enterprises witin the economy. In addition to privatization, the program
supports a review of business environment issues which impact adversely
upon the development of enterprises - with a view to ameliorating
constrains dentified.
BE [EFITS:             During 1993, Mozambique experienced its first full year of peace for
many years. Refugees were able to resettle on their tradional land and
re-commence agricwltural production; transport corridors could be used



- ii-
without fear of attack; and the prospects for the development of many
other actvities (energy, tourism, minerals) again became a real
possibility. During 1994, the country will have its first ever democratic
multi-party elections. The prospects for future growth are very good.
The program will support the growth process in this newly democratic
and peaceful environment. Significant growth achieved in 1993 will need
to be maintained for many more years to come. Reform of the monetary
policy enviromnent as well as reforn of the financial and enterprise
sectors has been accorded a high priority witiin the Government's
structural adjustment program. The framework for a competitive,
market-oriented financial and enterprise sector is now in place with
private banks, for the first time since independence, participating on a
level playirg field with public sector financial institutions. This will help
improve resource allocation as well as enable Government to better judge
the cost effectiveness of subsidies. Increased competition will help
iinprove the quality of banking services and lower the costs of fmancial
intermediation. Improved services and the development of a supervisory
capability at BM, in combination with greater macroeconotiaic stability
and positive real interest rates, will also help to build public confidence
and, over time, bnng more financial savings into the formal financial
system. Increasing banking sector autonomy should improve the
efficiency of bankig operations and permit the banks to grant credit to
those enterprises most able to contribute to economic growth.
RLSKS:                 An ambitious program  such as this carries inevitable risks.  A
restructured banking system will require a bankable client base, hence the
pace of restructuring and liberalization of the industrial and agricultural
sectors, and private sector response to these reforms, wil be critical.
The long-term success of reform, will depend on the Government's
commitment to allow the banking system to operate both independently
and commercially. This will require the closure of unprofitable rural
branches and denial of credit to unviable enterprises. This could well test
political support for the reform process. Finally, there are risks relating
to the Government's capacity to implement such a vide ranging and
complex program. A whole new culture of banking and business
activity, will need to develop, and this will take time.  Serious
commitment and consensus for the action Drogram, and extensive
technical support from IDA and other donors, will minimize these risks.
The success of this program will also depend on the movemert toward
full peace in Mozambique and successful transition to democratic
Government following the multi-party elections scheduled for October
1994. Should there be a disruption in the peace process, this will
seriously impact the capacity of the World Bank and other donors to
affect significant change.
- DIBURSEMENT:          The US$200 million will be disbursed in ree tranches. The first
tranche of US$80 million would be available upon effectiveness. The



- iii -
second and third tranches of US$60 million each would be available
about eight months and sixteen months latei, respectively, upon
satisfactory fulfillment of specified conditions. . Disbursement would
follow stadard Bank procedures for imports. Retroactive financing
would be permitted for up to a maximum of 20 percent of the credit, for
imports carried out during the four months immediately pnror to credk
effectiveness.
STAFF APPRAISAL
REPORT:            There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
POVE RTY CATEGORY Not applicable
This doument has a resticed distribution and may be used by reipients only in the
performnce of their offcial duties. It contents may not otherwise be discosed without
World Bank authorizationL



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DWELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE              DIRElTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUTBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE FOR THE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (SERC)
.        INTRODUCTION
1.       I submit for your approval the following rtport and recommendation for a proposed
Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC) to the Republic of Mozambique for SDR 141.7 million
(US$200 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
2.       The proposed SERC adjustment operation would be the fourth adjustment credit to
Mozambique. The Rehilitaton Credit of 1987 supported the first steps towards reducing massive
distortions (in prices and the exchange rate), and tackling the substantil macro-economic imbalances.
The R      on Credit of 1989 continued the process by focusing on improving the sectoral
allocation of expendiures, tightening credit policy, and initiating a restructuring of state enterprises.
t also contined trade reform measures. Reforms were deepened under the Economic Recovery
Crdit (FY92), which focused on the foreign exchange mark-t and the privatization of state
enterprises while initiating the rebuilding of the financial sector, and reallocating public expenditumes
towards priority sectors. The proposed SERC would build on generally satisfactory implementation
of the reforms under thcse three credits despite the highly adverse circumstances of civil war, loss
of external markets, and drought. While providing needed balance of payments financing it would
support policy and institutional reforms in the following areas: (i) fiscal policy; (ii) the cental bank
and monetary policy; (iii) the financial sector; and (iv) enterprise reform.
3.       The signing of the peace agreement in October 1992, the ongoing dobiation of
opposing armies under the supervision of the UN and the alections scheduled for October 1994 have
created the opportnity for sustainable economic and social development in Mozambique. But
immense difficulties remain for all participants. Mozambique emerged from seventeen years of
devastating civil war as the poorest country in the world, with nearly half (7 million people) of its
populion displaced and much of is economic and social infrastructure inoperative. -The peace
agreement flowed not from any decisive resolution of the conflict, but rather from a stalemate. For
nOW, about 1.5 miUion people have already returned to their original areas, thereby re-establishing
the basis for rapid recovery of smallholder farming and off-farm activities. The initial productive
supply response has indeed been an impressive GDP growth of 19 percent in 1993. The
demobilization process, after substntial delays and difficulies in 1992, is now moving forward, but
the peace process is extremely fragile, as the case of nearby Angola makes all too obvious. The
challenge for all parties in Mozambique - Govermment, opposition, the IJnited Nations, donors, and
the people - is to proceed with demobilization and democratization and economic adjustment as
quickly as possible without going so fast or atempting so much as to cause the whole process to
abort.
4.        The Government's sucmral adjustment program is described in the 1994-96 Policy
Framework Paper receny approved by IMP Management. A Consultative Group meeting in
December 1993 provided broad endorsement of the Government's program and pledged ful financing
for boti adjustment and demobilization needs for 1994.



-2-
H.       COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.       Recent Economic and Socal Performance
5.       The Pre-Adjustment Situatonw Mozanbique's performance must be assessed against the
background of immense challenges when the Govermnent's rehabilitation program was launched in
1987. By that time, the advantages the country had inherited at independence in 1975 - a good basic
infrastructure and export base - were all gone, as a result of long years of rigid central planning, a
one-party state, and a vicious ongoing civil war. By 1987, 60-70 percent of the population was
absolutely poor, and social indicators were among the worst in the world. Much of the mral
infistructure (electricity transrmission lines, roads, bridges, and railroads) had been devastated by
internal fighting and sabotage. A third of all health units and half of the primary schools had been
destroyed. Much of the service networirs (marketing, transport, social sectors) were inoperative.
Most enterprises had been nationalized or taken over by the state as 'intervened" companes. The
industrial sector was paralysed (output was only one-third of the 1973 level), and the agricultura
sector was rverting to below subsistence levels. The consequence was a sharp fall in Mozambique's
import capacity as exports fell by two-thirds. Aid dependency was extreme: 90 percent of marketed
grain in the country had to be provided through emergency assistance. Extemal debt was
unmanageable and the debt stock was equal to 3.5 times GDP and 45 times exports.
6.       In 1987, the economy was a morass of interlocking problems. Even understanding the
situton was difficult, let alone disentangling the issues and implementing remedial action. Thus,
entesprise profits and losses meant nothing because domestic prices were all out of line with world
prnces and there was no incentive to improve profitability. Profits were handed over to the Minisay
of Finance (MOF), while operating losses were covered by subsidies and investment was financed by
grants. The Bank of Mozambique (BM) was a typical mono-bank in a centaly-plamed economy,
ostensibly performing both central banking and commercial banldng functions, but in reality acting
as the payments and accounting arm of MOF. The exchange rate was grossly over-valued.
Moreover, the information base was abysmal. Enterprise, banking and government accounts either
did not exist or were in disarray. While Mozambique's economic problems were among the most
intractable in the world, the country's human and institutional capacity to design and implement
remedial action was among the weakest, with few university graduates, and no possibility of adding
to national capacity except by training a new generation of Mozambicans - a task that would take
more than a decade.
7.       It was clear, when the Government decided to dismantle central planning and move to a
market-based economy, that the task of structural adjustment would be long and arduous, even without
a raging war. Mozambique did however enjoy substantial sympathy and support from the internaional
comunity and generous external assistance was available. The Govermment wisely decided on a
pased approah to reform. The Bank and the IMF concurred with the Govemment's srategy. The
OED's study on Adjustment in Sub-Sabaran Africa (1993) has commended this grdualist approach
to adjustment in Mozambique.
8.       The First Enomic Rehabltation Program L967-1989. In the initial period of
adjustment, priority was given to making a start on reducing price and exchange rate distordto,
reducing administrative controls, rehablitating state enterprises, and mobilizing domestic resources.
These actions also required greater transpar     - in particular, sorting out the accounts of the banks
and public enterprises to permit design and monitoring of price and investment policies.



-3 -
9.        Significant progress was achieved in improving financial incentives. Products with fixed
prices accounted for about 30 percent of GDP in 1989 compared with 70 percent in 1986. The
official exchange rate was devalued by about 76 percent in real terms between 1986 and 1990. On
the fiscal side, considerable adjustment was carried out - throughout the period - and fiscal
performance was better than targeted under tne IMF SAF programs. The revenue base was
strengthened with fiscal revenues increasing fiom 18 percent of GDP in 1986 to over 22 percent in
1990.1 Enterprise reform proceeded faster than expected with about 120 small and medium enterprises
privatized from 1987 to 1990. The main burden of reforming the financial and enterprise sectors still
lay ahead, and foreign exchange and credit allecation remained administratively managed. The annal
rate of inflation decelerated (from 163 percent in 1987 to 47 percent in 1990) but was still
considerably above program targets. Despite these shortcomings, the measures had a positive impact.
The 1982-85 economic decline was reversed, with GDP growth reaching 9.8 percent per annum on
average in 1987-89 (see Charts - next page).
10.       Economic Recovery Program  (1990-93): In the next four years, the Government
accelerated and deepened the adjustment process in a number of areas, establishing a mrkloet for
foreign exchange, initiating financial sector reform, feeing domestic trade and prices, contining
enterprise reform, and strengthening public expenditure controls. The Governtnert's performance in
implementing the program was generally good, although complicated by severe external shocks. Aid
from, and trade with, the former Soviet Union stopped in 1991, and Mozambique lost key markets
in Eastern Europe. The result was a loss of foreign exchange amounting to over 8 percent of GDP.
The civil war worsened, causing an increase in the percentage of displaced households from 30
percent in 1988 to over 50 percent in 1992, which affected agricultural production. Then in 1992,
the agricult ire sector was devastated by the moss severe drought of the ceuy. In addition, export
pnces of most of Mozambique's agro-industnal exports declined. Rough estimates suggest that the
external shocks reduced output by at least 5 percent per anmnm on average, thus accounting for two-
thirds of the reduction in the growth rate of GDP to 1.7 percent per anmmi in 1990-1992.
I1.       In 1993, with improved security, better weather, partially restored infrastructure, and
contined structural reform, GDP growth reached 19 percent, and inflation fell from 55 percent in
1992 to 44 percent by year end. Agricultural production rose by 21 percent as the sector recovered
from the 1992 drought as displaced households resettled in rural areas. Increased agricultural
marketing and irnproved security led to a sharp increase in commercial activities in rural areas.
Taffic and passenger flows were restored throug' hout the country and railroad traffic rose further
following repairs to the transport corridors. However, industrial production in the formal sector
stagnated owing to market resistance to increased prices, the reduction in inplicit subsidies on
imported inputs, and a cascading tax system which provided strong incentives for smuggling. The
sector is in the painfil process of adjusting to an increasingly deregulated environment
Due to inadeqies in he rnioal accouts, the level of GDP is undeestmtd and ratios to CDM may be mislang, Tn  are
somewhat more reliable than levels and atios, but all statistics should be reated with cautdon. ITe Goverment is In the proce of evising the
national accounts.



.4-
PrimDa Fisal Defiit/GD? (%)
50,0               IlavemmtmeGDP (0/*)
40.0
30,0 '..5                                                         aher g.,
20.0                                         0
10.0                                -a. .5
0.0                         **   -    ' -'-15                   befregrants
10.040
-40.0                                      -20
-20.0              D_omestic  gs/GDP (%)  -25
-30.0                                      -30II
Cunent Account Deicit I Exports                       GDP per Capita
of Goods and Servies (%)                            (1987prices)
350
300                                               45                                  -
250 +40                                                     OUPA lossd dt
2500                                                        to am shocks 
100
50                                               25
Nots: 1/ The aiumun account deficit is before grants
2/ The fisd deficit excludes itest paymnt



-5'.
12.       Stuctural reform under the program has continued. The nber of products subject
to fixed producer prices now account for less than 10 percent of Mozambique's total production.
Private sector activities in trade increased sharply, and the share of AGRICOM - the agricultural
marketing parastatal - fell from 78 percent to about 15 percent of agricultural marketing. A major
restructuring of the petroleum sector - leading to the removal of monopolies in fuel distribution -
is underway. A new market-based foreign exchange system and regular devaluations reduced the
premimn on the parallel market exchange rate from 150 percent in 1990 to less than 10 percent by
end-1993. The Investment Act was revised and an Investment Center established to create a more
attractive environment for foreign investors. Trade reform, mcluding a rationalization and reduction
in tariffs, has been undertaken. This reform was substantial, with specific taxes replaced with ad
valorem rates, a significant reduction in the number and levels of rates, and the dismanding of
quantitative restrictions. In 1993, consumption taxes for industrial inputs were eliminated and import
duties for unprocessed food, raw materials and industrial inputs reduced. The next stage of trade
reform, now under preparation, winl focus mainly on export incentives.
13.      In 1987, the enterprise sector was extensively state owned. This sector produced
according to the dictates of the national plan and large enterprise subsidies, amounting to about 12
percent of GDP, were provided through the budget. Since then, losses in the state enterprise sector
have been reduced through price adjustments and wage compression, so that total subsidies through
the budget and through non-repayment of credit are now estimated to be less than 2 percent of GDP.
In 1991 a Privatization Act was passed and several Government units established to carry out the
Government's privatization program. Government decreed that all state enterprises with the exception
of strategic enterprises that provide essential public goods and services were to be either privatzed,
transformed into commercially-oriented public enterprises, or liquidated. By early 1994, most state
farms had ceased production or had been privatzed. Nine large industrial firms, which alone account
for about 10 percent of Mozambique's industrl production, and 263 small and medium enterprises
had been privatized.2
14.       Reform of the major utility parastatals - most importanty in the case of electricity.
telecommunications, and within the petroleum company - has commenced. Two (post office and
telecommunications) were transformed into commercially-oriented public enterprises in 1993. First
steps have been tamen with respect to the airlines and the railways.
15.       Mozambique's finanl sector was largely destroyed by almost fifteen years of socialism,
and the task at hand really represets fornung, rather than refonrng the financial sector.
Implementation of the financal sector program commenced later in the adjustment program. Separate
legislation - a new Central Bank Act in 1991 and a Banking Act in 1992 - has now established the
legal and instiutional framework for prudential regulation and supervision of the bankig system.
Most umportanty, the separation of the central banking functions and the commercial banking
fumctions of BM, was virtualy achieved in 1992.
16.       Explicit budgetary subsidies to state enterprises were reduced to less than 1 percent of
GDP by 1992. One source of implicit subsidy - the non-payment of counterpart funds (or delayed
payment) required for the imporation of commities financed by import support funds - was also
2     In 1988, there were 707 nsaonay regisred companies, ofwhich 286 we stae atepis, 255 wer pivat enteprises, 142 wer
"i_tend entelprie 11 we:e m1d enteprs and 13 werm cooperat.



elininated in 1992. At the same time, the Govermnent adopted the principle that bank loans would
not be granted to cover the operating losses of state enterprises, following its assumption in 1987 of
financial responsibility for the accumulated bad loans to state enterprises (amounting then to 14
percent of GDP). Nevertheless, the publication of BM's and BCM's accounts in mid-1993 revealed
that substantial additional credit to state enterprises had in fact been provided in the period 1987-1992
(mainly as a consequence of BCM's continued close association with the Govermnent through BM),
with the accumulation of non-performing loans (eventually assigned to BCM) in the order of 4 percent
of GDP.
17.      Issues flowing from the separation of BM and BCM remain, including the development
of BM as a strong and independent central bank - and the downsizing of BCM and its preparation
for privatization or other joint venture arrangements. Other issues relate to the large and growing
volume of unreconciled trmsitory accounts in BCM, which represent a further potential source of
monetary leakage which has weakened control of money supply growth.
18.       Savings mobilization has been poor. Domestic dis-savig is extreme (-1 1 percent of GDP
in current prices), and most of it is from the private sector and state enterprises rather than the
government budget. This has largely been a consequence of severe disruptions to agricultural activity
flowing from the civil war and the resulting impoverishment of the rural population. It is hoped -
and expected - that, with a consoldation of the peace process, the resettlement of rural areas, and
an increase in agricultural production, savings will increase substantially. Proposed reforms in the
financial sector (supported by the SERC credit), should also assist domestic resource mobilization as
financial repression has forced many activities into the informal sector which should move back to
the bankig system as banking services and returns on financial savings improve. BCM has had little
incentive to mobilize domestic savings given its access to overdraft facilities from BM.
19.      FIscal policy under the recovery program has amied at rehabilitting the economic and
social infrastructure while reducing the monetary financing of the budget. Emphasis was therefore
placed iiially on mobilizing domestic and external resources and icreasing budgetary investment.
These objectives were broadly achieved: budgetary investment rose from 18 percent of GDP in 1987
to 24 percent in 1990, and the monetary financing of the budget deficit fell from 17 percent in 1986
to less than 2 percent of GDP in 1990. However, the overall result was an increase in the primary
fiscal deficit before grants from 22 percent in 1987 to 26 percent m 1990.3
20.       In subsequent years, this trend has been corrected thanks to more rigorous prioridzation
of public expenditures. This allowed for a decline of the primary fiscal deficit before grants to 19
percent of GDP in 1993. The budget also became more transparent and its coverage widened to
include previously off-budget items amounting to about 10 percent of GDP in 1990. A rolling the-
year investment budget was itroduced, concomitant with a reallocation of investment towards the
social sectors, agriculture and transport, away from lrge-scale capital-intensive projects in
agriculture. Recurrent expenditures for the social sectors were increased. The inefficient National
Food Distrbution System was phased out, food subsidies were virtually elimnated, and a safety net
targeted to a segment of poor urban households (those without earning potental) was established in
1992.
Mm pima fisa defici a also usd becaus ites paymet wer nt fWly recorded before 1992. Ineres payou wue
eqvaent to 3.6 preMt of GDP durng 1993.



-7-
21.         The overall result of increased resource mobilization (including aid and counepart funds)
and pnoritization of expenditures was a substatial u       ou Wd of the primy fiscal deficit 4fter grans
(1.6 percent of GDP in 1993) (see Charts on page 4), despite severe external shocks, thus removig
a substantal source of monetary expansion.
Table 1: Key M           onomic  dicators
199O    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Real Growth Rate (% per ananu)
GDP Growt Rat                               1.0      4.9    -0.8    19.1      5.8     5.9    6.1
Gtoss Inves_tnGDP                          38.1    39.0    38.4    41.5    45.0    42.5   40.7
Nadonl SavingsGDP                          -15.0   -12.5   -19.0   -14.3   -25.7    -8.8   -6.5
Budgtary Data (%  f GDP)
Ovoa Deficit Before Grnts                  29.2    24.8    26.3    22.3    25.1    17.0   13.5
Oea Deficit Aftr Gans                      12.3      5.5     5.5     5.2      4.5     3.3    3.0
Shares Of GDP
ExpoBts (G&NFS)                            15.9    21.6    23.6    21.3    24.8    26.6   28.5
Imports (G&NP)                             65.7    69.8    75.5    73.8    90.3    72.8   71.1
Curent Aucon Defici                        53.1    51.5    S7.5    55.8    70.7    51.3   47.2
Cure Account Defkit'                       22.0    16.5    18.6    21.6    24.6    17.4   15.2
Rea EfBfctivc Excange Ras                  -0.5   -16.7      6.2     0.8      ...      ...    ...
tni (d  fpeod. % p.)                       47.1    35.2    54.5    43.6    30.0    24.0   14.0
Due to iadeqma in naionl accounts, esdmes an invesm us savs ae disrtd.  he   ease i  reios tD GDP afles
the deta of major exae  rae aM     te oternal cmpone of _venMt   ave OD a less fosfer mcrease in doic
inao amnd hefore. GDP. In addit  invstmen itcldes a sgnficnt propoion of recurexpenxhres.
Before gran.
3 After gsua.
4 Deprecia(-).
22.         The evohltion of the curt account deficit of the balance of payments broay
reflected changes in the fiscal deficit. Tus, the curent account deficit before grams reached 57
percen  in 1989, and declined to 52 percent by 1991.  An important factor accoutng for the
improvement was an increase in exports from 15 percent of GDP in 1989 to 22 perce of GDP m
1991, largely the lagged effect of the substantil depreciation of the official exchange rate two years
earlier.  However, exports stgnated (as a percentage of GDP) in 1991-93, while impos rose
sbtantially on account of the 1992 drought and the resumption of economic activity following the
peace agreement. As a result, in 1993, the curren account deficit before grants again approached



-8 -
its peak level of 1989. Because of strong donor support and a significant shift from loans to grants,
the evolution of the current deficit after grants was different: it fell from 29 percent of GDP in 1987
to 22 percent of GDP in 1993.
23.       StabIlization. The Government has had partial success in stabilizing the economy. The
rate of inflation (end of period) decelerated from 163 percent in 1987 to 35 percent in 1991, in
response to tighter fiscal and monetary policies. In 1992, inflation accelerated and peaked at 55
percent, mostly because of the drought. Normal rainfail resumed in 1993, and efforts to eliminate
various sources of uncontrolled credit increase resulted in inflation declining to 44 percent. The
interest rate structre has been substantially simplified and only the twelve month deposit rate and
maximum lending rates are regulated. Both rates are positive in real terms.
24.       Although inflation remains a concern, and budget deficits remain high, the trend since
1987 (after taking into account the external shocks of the 1990-1992 period) has been in the right
direction. Further macroeconomic stabilization is obviously required. Howvever, an important source
of macroeconomic instability, which has accounted for the continued high (albeit declining) rates of
inflation, stems from leakages in the banking sector. "Other items" (mainly representing transitory
accounts in the banking sector), are large and have been growing rapidly. The effect of not
controlling these items is that there has been rapid expansion of the assets of the banking sector- and
higher inflation than would be anticipated from other macroeconomic indicators.  Hence,
strengthening the central bank and developing instruments of monetary policy, forming a properly
functioning financial sector, and continuing with privatization in the enterprise sector, are seen as the
next steps, in addressing the causes of macroeconomic instability.
25.       Recent Socdal Developments. The combination of inappropriate socio-economic policies
in the 1980s, drought, and increased rral insecurity, forced most rural households to migrate to
urban areas or neighboring countries. Their resettlement constitutes an enormous challenge. In
recognition of the social problems faced by Mozambique, the Govermnent incorporated poverty
reduction objectives into its adjustment program and renamed it the Economic and Social
Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) in 1991.
26.       Data are spotty, but some health indicators prepared by UNICEF show improvements,
such as the infant mortality rate in Maputo declining from 84 per 1000 live births in 1987 to 73 per
1000 in 1992, and the maternal mortality rate from 260-300 per 100,000 live births in 1987 to 180
in 1990. A factor in the improvement has been the increase in social sector expenditues: budgetary
expenditures on goods and services for education and health rose by 19 percent in real terms from
1991 to 1993, which reversed the decline experienced in the early 1980s, and 60,000 poor urban
households are now covered by a direct income transfer scheme (see paragraph 47). This policy was
made possible by the increased mobilization of counterpart funds by the budget, which increased
budgetary resources.
27.       Nevertheless, poverty remaims deep and widespread. Wages for urban unskilled workers
have fallen below the absolute poverty level, a problem that cannot be addressed through targeted
poverty alleviation measures alone. What is required above all is resumption of growth, support for
the on-goig large-scale resetlement of households in rural areas, which will reduce excess labor in
urban areas and downward pressure on wages.
28.       The extraordinary extent of poverty in Mozambique has important implications for the
pace of reform in the productive sectors: thus drastic policy action resulting in closing down a



-9 -
significant number of enterprises would have a massive impact on unemployment in urban areas and,
given the lack of alternative employment in the cities, would have adverse repercussions on the
smooth implementation of the demobilization process and consequently the political transition to
democracy.
B.       Externa Envroment
29.      Mozanmbique faces three challenges relating to its external sector: maintaining the level
of imports required for growth, decreasing its dependence on external aid, aid reducing its high
external indebtedness, not to mention coping with natural disasters. huports will increase
substantially in the short-term, because of the additional costs of the demobilization, elections,
resettlement of households and other emergency programs, including repairing the damage caused by
Cyclone Nadia in March 1994. These programs would provide the necessary ingredients for the
agricultural-based economic recovery to take place, and for food production to increase, which would
lead to reduced dependency on food aid over the medium-term. This strategy has received generous
donor support: over US$1 billion was pledged at the December 1993 Consultative Group meeting.
This, in conjunction with debt relief amountng to $382 million, would cover the projected external
financing requirements in 1994 in the aggregate. However, there is still an issue with the composition
of external aid. Most of the available financing (exports and external aid) is preempted by debt
service payments and donor-financed investment projects, leaving a very small margin of "free" funds
for financing needed imported inputs (such as petroleum), basic consumer goods and capital goods
not financed under investment projects. This gap should increasingly be filled by export earnings but
this will be gradual. Meanwhile, Mozambique's aid must be in a form that supports the structural
adjustment process - leading to a lower aid dependency and meeting the large financing requirements
in the intervening medium term. As donor import support funds have typically been provided in
parallel with IDA adjustment financing, the SERC would play a catalytic role in mobilizing donor
balance of payments support.
30.      Over the long-term  Mozambique's dependence on extel aid must decrease.
Historically, Mozambique's diverse export base has been composed of agricultural or agro-industrial
commodities together with service industries such as transport and tourism. These traditional sources
have again contributed to growth since 1992. New exports such as mining, electricity (from the
Cahora Bassa hydro scheme rendered inoperative by the war), and manufactured exports are expected
to become more important in the future - as a result of the development of new known gas fields,
increased mining exploration, and the revitalizaion of the industrial base. Agro-industria1 exports
could recover to early 1980 levels only by the end of the 1990s, while other exports (such as gas)
would rise more rapidly. A positive factor in the projected rise in exports will be foreign investment:
applications reached US$600 million by mid-1993, most of them export-oriented. Actual foreign
investment, however, is likely to remain thin until after the successful conclusion of the October 1994
elections - as investors remember the Angolan experience. On the basis of these developments,
exports of goods and services are projected to rise by over 14 percent per annun in current dollars
from 1993 to 2002 and imports would increase more slowly, by over 6 percent per anmum in current
dollars on account of reduced dependence on food aid, the end of the special programs in 1995
(demobilization, elections and resetdement of households), and some import substitution accompanymg
the restructuring of the industrial sector. As a result, the current account deficit before grants, after
increasing from 56 percent of GDP in 1993 to 71 percent of GDP in 1994, would fall to 28 percent
in 2002, and Mozambique's dependence on external aid would fall from US$67 per capita in 1993
to the regional average (US$34 in per capita terms in 1990 prices) by 2002.



- 10-
31.       Despite export growth and import substitution, in this base - and favorable - scenario
Mozambique will need continued debt rescheduling throughout the 1990s. Current debt relief is
generous, but even after rescheduling, debt service amounts to 25-30 percent exports. For debt
rescheduling to be a long-term solution, a reduction in total debt to the tune of 60-70 percent would
have to take place. Debt cancellation agreements have been reached with sevetal of Mozambique's
OECD creditors. With respect to the former Soviet Union debt, agreement has been reached that it
will be reduced through debt-equity swaps.
C.       Mozambique's Development Objectives and Policies
32.       Mozambique's long-term objective as set out in its Economic and Social Rehabilitation
Program is to repair the damage of the past and establish conditions for accelerating long term growth
and poverty reduction. The strategy is based on labor-intensive act ivities to generate efficient income-
earning opportunities for the poor, and investment in human re;ources to enable the poor to take
advantage of the opportunities created by economic growdt. ihdeed, since about 60 percent of
Mozambique's population are considered absolutely poor, labor-intensive growth is essential for
reducing poverty.  This requires in particular acceleration of agricultural growth.  Given
Mozambique's good soils and ample land, there is considerable potential for increased incomes
through the return of displaced smallholders and improved cultivation techniques. However,
complementary investment in infrastructure, particularly roads, is essential for restoring the marketing
network, improving farmers' access to markets, and stimulating agriculture.  In view of
Mozambique's limited domestic market, closer integration with world markets-through trade and
investment flows- is needed to develop agro-industry and manufacturing. In addition, accelerating
the privatization of state enterprises and the development of commercial banking services are required
for restructuring the industrial sector. Continued investment in human resource development is
especiaily critical for expanding Mozamnbique's limited pool of skilled resources as well as ensuring
that the poor can benefit fully from economic growth.
33.       Achievement of these broad objectives will require progress - starting immediately - in
five areas: (i) demobilization and national reconciliation, which are prerequisites for economic
recovery; (ii) macroeconomic stabilization, which implies improvement in the management of external
aid and monetary and fiscal control; (iii) providing support services to smalholders in agriculture;
(iv) enhancing private sector development through further enterprise and financial sector reform; and
(v) ensuring that key social activities, including a minimal social "safety-net", are adequately
supported during the transition.
34.       During 1994-96, Mozambique will face the challenges of nadonal rm the
aftermath of a destructive war that include a number of key tasks: the resettlement of about half its
population, the demobilization of 91,000 soldiers, and a democratization program based on multiparty
elections. RENAMO, the main opposition party, and the Government have agreed on the key aspects
of the electoral law.
35.       The main elements of the macroeconomi framework are: (a) reducing the fiscal deficit
after grans from 5 percent of GDP in 1993 to a projected 4.5 percent of GDP in 1994 and 2-3
percent in 1995-96 (and the fiscal deficit before grants from 22 percent in 1993 to 10 percent by
1996); (b) strengthening credit policies to keep monetary growth within targets; and (c) reducing the
current account deficit before grants from 2.2 to 1.5 times exports between 1993 and 1996, i.e. from
55.8 percent of GDP to 47 percent of GDP. Fiscal policy objectives are, in view of the current high
ratio of revenues to GDP, to reduce tax related distortions (VAT being on the medium term agenda),



- }1 -
and improve collections rather than increase tax rates and, on the expenditure side, to continue
rationalization of expenditures and improve efficiency of external aid. However, despite some savings
accruing from downsizing the armed forces, additional expenditures related to demobilization, mine
clearing, and preparation of elections will result in the overall budget deficit (before grasts and
including interest payments) rising from 22 percent of GDP in 1993 to 25 percent in 1994.
36.       The revival of the agricultural sector - an inmnediate priority - implies providing seeds
and tools to support the resetdement of households in rural areas, and encouraging competition in the
marketing of crops. The Govermnent will pbase out the free distribution of food aid to ensure that
it does not act as a disincentive to local production. The rehabilitation of basic social infrastructure
in the rural areas, particularly as concerns schools, health facilities, access roads, water supplies and
sanitation systems, will be particularly important as it is a prerequisite for the expected resettlement
of households in rural areas to take place.
37.       Structural measures to enhance private sectorbased growth imply accelerating the
restructuring of the enterprise sector through furither pnvatzation of state enterprises, improvement
in financial services, including access to credit, and further review of the business environment, to
foster domestic and foreign investment. The redevelopment of service industries like transport and
tourism will also contribute to growth. Provided these measures are implemented, GDP growth could
attain 6-7 percent per year during the second-half of the 1990s. Labor and land availability should
not be a binding constraint over the medium term. For longer term development, Mozambique will
exploit its comparative advantage in agro-based industries, energy activities and untapped mineral
resources.
38.       Mozambique's poverty reduction strategy incorporates four elements: (i) improving the
quality of social services (education and health) in urban areas and restoriag basic social services in
rural areas; (ii) providing humanitarian assistance (free food aid) to vulnerable households in rml
areas during the transition; (ii) most recenly, providing support (seeds and tools) to enable displaced
households to resume agricultural production in rural areas; and (iv) maintaing a safety net by
providing direct income transfers to targeted urban households. This aid was delivered by a variety
of aid agencies, including NGOs and has resulted in a fragmentation of assistance and lack of
coordination with the Government's own programs. hntegrated sectoral strategies in the social sectors
will be developed. Rehabilitation of the social infrastructure, meanwhile is an immediate and
enormous challenge. As the "Energency Program" winds down, social sector programs wil have
to compete for reduced resources with major reconstruction needs. It is therefore more important
than ever tO correctly identify priority needs, and to design integrated sector strategies.
D.        Bank Group Country Assistance Strateg
Status of Policy Dialogue
39.       The oveall objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy are consistent with those of the
Government: poverty reduction and increased self-reliance in the long run begimning with the policy
and institutional reforms needed for long-term growth. In various fora such as the Consultative
Group, SPA meetings, joint Bankldonors missions, and donors working groups, macroeconomic and
sectoral policy issues have been discussed with Government and donors. The outcome is that donors
and Govermment share a common vision of the broad priorities. A consensus has been reached that
bold reforms are needed to stimulate economic growth, alleviate poverty, and ensure a successfuil
reintation of demobilized soldiers and displaced households. Where differences do exist, they.



- 12 -
generally concern the pace or modality of the agreed reforms. Donors at times express concern that
the speed of reforms is too slow, but they recognize that the Govermment must contend, among other
things, with the legacy of a poorly qualified civil service (although proportionally less numerous than
in most African countries). IDA is therefore emphasizmg the need to design assistance properly,
comensurate with the Government's implementation capacity. IDA also endeavors to ensure that
institutional and sectoral reforms are built on government ownership. And IDA promotes the
formulation of common sector strategies which imply the participation of all donors active in the
sector, common implementation arrangements, and minimal resort to long-term technical assistance.
These principles guide the four priority areas: macroeconomic reform, the development of local
capacity, agricultural recovery and inftastructure reconstruction, and poverty reduction.
40.       Experience to date gives confience in a gradualst approah t. jareconomic refor,
as being the most likely path to success in such an extraordinarily adverse environment with such
limited implementation capacity. Some acceleration of the reform pace should be feasible once
demobilization and elections are successfully completed. However, a simple linear sequencing of
reform will not be possible because many essential elements are interconnected. Macroeconomic
stabilization is essential for the success of the reform program as a whole, but achieving it requires
eontinued fiscal discipline and monetary control which, in tum, necessitates changes in credit policy
and forceful enterprise reform. While the speed of entepise reform is constrained for a variety of
political, procedural, and sensible business reasons, non-performers camot be allowed to disrupt the
banking system because this would impair credit to the budding private sector (already half of BCM's
portfolio). Enterprise reform and banking system changes, in short, have to proceed in tandem. This
is the underlying logic of the proposed SERC.
41.       Chief among the policy measures required for supporting the process of macroeconomic
stabilization and increased economic growth is huproved management of external aid. With peace,
there has been a proliferation of donor assisted projects (about 500), some of which has been provided
in an ad hoc manner, outside existing institutional channels. Too many of these operations are donor-
driven, highly fragmented and dependent on long-term foreign technical assistance. In contrast,
rehabilitation of the key rural ifstructure follows an integrated sector approach supported by IDA-
financing under ROCS H in FY94. Indeed, in various fora, including the CG and in SPA, donors
have responded positively to the concept of an integrated sector approach for agriculture and also
health.
42.       The next generation of policy reforms to be supported by IDA adjustment operations
(ERC m in FY96 and ERC IV in FY98) will focus on tax reform, further trade reforms (export
promotion), and on depenig financial sector and enterprse reform. Changes in the tax system,
inchluing introduction of a VAT system, are needed to correct remaing price distortions and
improve enterprise incentives, as well as to increase domestic resource mobilizaton, and thus pave
the way for reduced aid dependence. Trade reforms will address the establishment of an effective
duty draw back system and the reform of customs admiisraon. These are the subject of ongoing
ESW. Under future operations, privatization of the coercial banking system should continue to
be pursued; agricultural marketing reforms completed; interest rates and other policies to mobilize
financial savings strengthned; and the process of restructuring or privatzing major nonindustrial
parastatals continued. The precise content of these operations will be determined in the light of
implementtion of ongoing reforms.



- 13-
Enbancing Govemeat's Capadty
43.       The Government and the donor community agree that the lack of skilled resources within
the civil service is a major constraint to development as it impedes private sector growth and public
sector project implementation. IDA strategy is to address capacity constraints by working on the
demand side and the supply side, including the development of rules that would apply to locally-hired
consultants. Through a FY89 Economic and Financial Management Technical Assistance Project,
IDA is strengthening the administrative and institutional capacity of the key ministries responsible for
implementing the rehabilitation program. In addition to the technical assistance included in investment
projects developing project management capacity, two Capacity Building projects are aimed at
providing a professional manpower base for the country and the Government. An agreed set of rules
that would apply to donor-imanced consultants was finalized in the field in April, 1994. The broader
issues related to civil service reform would be reviewed, following the elections in end-1994, through
a Civil Service Reform Study (FY96), and addressed through a Public Sector Management Reform
Project (FY98).
44.       Continuing- high levels of bilateral assistance will depend on positive perceptions of
governamce issues in Mozambique. The top priority for bilateral donors remains a smooth
demobilization leading to democratic elections expected later this year. While this process is moving
forward, the improvements achieved in the area of financial accountability need to be sustained. An
improved system for monitoring the use of import support funds and the mobilization of counterpart
funds has been put in place, and increased financial discipline has been achieved. Increased emphasis
is being given to the regular auditing of project and credit accounts. Following the satisfactory
resolution of the issues raised by the previous audits of adjustment credits, the Government has
proposed to carry out a joint audit of all import support funds.
45.      Agricltrl Recovery, made possible by the gradual return of refugees to their villages,
is being supported through investment operations, the iuegration of emergency programs within
longer term development programs, and pricing and markedng reform. The large program of
bilateral and NGO emergency assistance is being shifted from food aid to provision of seeds and other
inputs. Production has already responded as refugees return to their original areas. Several bank
projects in the agricultral sector are currendy bemg restructured to take mto account the changed
economic cimn   which have prevailed in rural Mozambique since the beginmnng of 1993. In
addition, the Bank is conducting an agricultural sector review in colaboration with the Government
and other donors. This will provide the basis for a revision of pricing and marketing of cashew nuts,
one of Mozambique's principal exports; it will also underpin the formulation of sector-based
investment projects agreed with donors, ilcluding an IDA Smallholder Agriculture Project in FY96,
and a follow-up Smallholder II Project in FY98.
46.      The most urgent additional requirement of agricultural recovery is the selective
rehabilion of    are which wil help restore Mozambique's economic integration. The
rehabilitation of rural roads, which is crucial for improving smallholders' access to markets, is being
supported in the ROCS II project in FY94. In addition, selected investments and privatization of part
of the railroad infrastructure are needed for increasing the export earings generated by the rairoad
corridors. Following the IDA Maputo Corridor Project (FY93), this process will be assisted through
an IDA Railroad Corridor II (FY98). Selective rehabilitation of the social frastructure, which is
discussed below, is needed for increasing the country's human capital.
47.       Given Mozambique's extremely low income per capita, only long-term growth will reduce



- 14-
poverty on a significant scale. Hence, the poverty alleviation strategy is first and foremost a growth
strategy. As the bulk of the poor derives its livelihood from small farms, increasing the productivity
of family farmers, who make up the majority of the poor, is central to poverty reduction. Therefore,
the Bank's operations in agriculture aim to support increased production and incomes in the family
sector through provision of basic services and rehabilitation of agriculwtral niarketing and rural
infrastructure. Following upon the FY91 Agriculture Rehabilitation and Developmernt Credit focused
on the rehabilitation of the cashew subsector, the development of agricultural services and recovery
of food crop and cotton production are supported through the FY92 Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation and Development Project. The FY93 Rural Rehabilitation Project supports on a pilot
basis decentralized rural economic development in two selected provinces. While high priority is
being given to the restructuring of these three agricultural projects, given the new demands of peace
and recovery and improved security in rural areas, the provision of smallholder services would be
firther ensured through the above mentioned FY96 and FY98 IDA Smaallholder Agriculture Projects.
48.       Expanding access to basic social services is the second critical element in Mozambique's
poverty reduction strategy. IDA is supporting this effort through two on-going education projects and
one health project, as well=-as through the preparation of three projects geared to rehabilitating,
improving quality, and eventually expanding the coverage of primary health and education services
(Health 1I in FY96 and Social Sector Rehabilitation in FY97) and urban facilities (Urban II in FY97).
The Government, along with the international community, has begun to recognize the unique role of
NGOs in delivering services and mobilizing local communities to participate in development. To help
improve the productivity of investment m the sector, IDA and other donors have initiated a
comprehensive review of the allocation and use of financial resources for health and education.
49.       Vulnerable Groups. Many households, including labor-scarce households (female or
disabled-headed households with many dependents), will remain for a long time beyond the scope of
growth strategies. For those households, "safety-net" measures supported under the ERC and the
SERC include the provision of modest income transfers targeted to poor urban households in
replacement of the previous system of food rations. The targeted households are selected on the basis
of health indicators (malnutrition), family situation (aged, single parent with large family, or
physically handicapped without income), and income per capita. The safety-net was iitiated in 1991,
and by end 1993 it covered about 60,000 households in 13 urban districts. A review of the
effectiveness of the safety net scheme (by the German aid agency GTZ) is planned for mid-1994. An
FY93 Food Security Project assists Govermnent in the development of national 'istitutional capacity
for the formulation and implementation of food security policies and programs. In rural areas, the
Emergency Program is the main safety net to protect the poor in the regions that have been
particularly affected by the war. In line with the on-going agricultural recovery in rural areas, the
Government intends to reduce the food aid provided under the Emergency Program. Currently, the
Emergency Program is being reoriented to support the resettlement of displaced households in rural
areas through the free distribution of food, seeds and tools.
Other Areas of Special Operation  Emphasis
50.      Gender Issues. Especially in rural areas, Mozambican women are the principal source
of income for most households (it is estimated that more than 60 percent of family farmers are
women). However, they are rarely producers in their own right, and have little control over major
productive resources such as land and credit. Internal and external migration has also separated many
thousands of women from husbands and families, adding to the econonic hardship of women-headed
households which have large numbers of small children and elderly dependents, yet lack secure and



- 15 -
adequate resources to provide for them. Development of the potential of women will provide rewards
to Mozambique in the form of increased productivity, enhanced family welfare, and eventually a
reduced population growth rate. Under the FY92 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and
Development Project, women farmers will have equal access to extension, training and credit. Steps
will also be taken to increase the number of female extension staff and women's participation in
farmers' groups. Women's access to credit in urban areas is being improved through the FY89 Urban
Rehabilitation Project, which includes a small credit line targeted to micro-enterprises (80 percent of
beneficiaries are women) and technical assistance provided through the Office for the Promotion of
Employment of the Ministry of Labor. While the FY89 Health and Nutrition Project is helping
rehabilitate health facilities, the FY95 Health II Project will include specific components targeted to
pre-maternal health care.
51.       Environment. Mozambique is a large and relatively sparsely populated country with
abundant natural resources. While the lack of access to large areas of the country during the war has
made information concerning the state of the natural resource base sketchy, indications are that
problems are localized mostly around the urban areas and transport corridors where the population
displaced by war took refuge. The lack of sanitation facilities is the principal direct cause of
environmental degradation in urban and peri-urban areas. The result is that most water sources within
these areas are contaminated, with serious effect on human health and productvity as the
environmental degradation has now extended beyond urban limits to affect mangrove forests, and
groundwater aquifers in specific areas. This, in turn, has threatened the economically important
breeding-ground for prawns and shrimps.
52.      In contrast to the situation in t-Ase areas, the rest of the country is in the unique situation
of having a relatively untouched resource base due to displacement of population during the war.
However, the return of about half of Mozambique's population to rural areas in a short time will
increase pressure on the natural resource base. To address existing and emerging environmenal
issues, the Goverment has created a National Commission for the Environment (CNA) in mid- 19)2.
The CNA is coordinating the preparation of a National Environmental Management Program (NEMP)
with the goals of introducing environmenWally sustanable policies and stategies into sector and
economic planning, and enbancing local capacity for environmental management. These efforts are
being supported by IDA through a Country Environmental Strategy Paper and a Transfrontiet
Conservation Areas and Institution Strengthening Project (GEF) (FY96). Environmental issues have
also been addressed in connection with agricultural, urban, and infraswtrure projects. The FY92
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project contains components specificaUy
targeted to soil conservation, and the FY88 Urban Rehabilitation Project ichludes a component to
improve solid waste management. The FY93 Maputo Corrdor Project will assess needs and possible
intervention regarding health and safety aspects in the operations of ports and railways, and the FY94
ROCS II Project include technical assistance to develop the environment sector guidelines and
standards.
53.       Private Sector Development. Mozambique's Economic Rehabilitaion Program has
substially improved the environment for private sector development. Most notable has been the
improvemnents in financial incentives (prices and exchange rate), the emerging markets for foreign
exchange and credit, the adoption of a revised foreign investment code, the approval of export
processing zones, and the establishment of transparent procedures for enterprise privatization.
54.       The importance of pnivatization for Mozambique goes beyond improved enterprises'
operating efficiency. It signals a basic shift in Government's policies towards the private sector. The



16 -
privatization of small and medium enterprises, which started in 1988, is proceeding satisfactorily with
about 50 enterprises being privatized each year. The divestiture of large enterprises, which started
in 1992 is now accelerating following the adoption of clear and transparent procedures. This process
is already supported through the provision of technical assistance fmanced under the IDA Industrial
Enterprise Restructuring Project (FY89) and is an integral part of the proposed SERC.
55.      Increased private domestic and foreign investment is part of the Government's strategy
for revitalizing the industrial sector. The Governent recognizes the need to shift its stance toward
private investment from a regulatory to a promotional one. However, the Govenment has yet to
provide an enabling enviromnent and establish a clear regulatory framework to inspire confidence on
the part of investors. At the Govermnent's request, a review of the business environment was caried
out by FHAS in 1994. To assist the Government further in this process, IDA is preparing an industi
and export incentives study, including a private bector assessment. This- study will review the factors
accounting for the lackluster performance of the industrial sector, the constraints *o exports, and
develop a comprehensive export promotion strategy. A reform of taxation toward a VAT system witl
most likely feature in the Govermnent's medium term program.
56.       Success in stimulating private investment and attracting foreign investment will play a
major role in increasing exports. Besides improvmg the overall system of incentives, the
Government's strategy includes establishing export processing zones, developing Mozambique's
natural resources, and enhancing the tansport corrdors capacity to generate foreign exchange.
Besides increased efficiency in managing the country's railroad corridors (see paragraph 53), well-
planned investment in developing energy resources can lead to substaial export earnings. Through
a FY94 Gas Engineering Project, IDA is assisting the Govermnent to undertake all work necessary
to enable the Govermment, ENH and private sector investors to make a firm decision to develop the
Pande gas reserves for export and use in Mozambique.
Portfolio Perfornace and Management
57.       Portfolio Sta. As of April 30, 1994, IDA's Mozambique portfolio consisted of 22
credits, amounting to comnmitments of US$966 million (with an undisbursed balance of $702 million).
Aggregate disbursements have been low when expressed as a percentage of the undisbursed balances.
However, this reflects to a large extent the fact that Mozambique's portfolio is relatively young, with
SO percent of the portfolio being less than two years old (see Annex V). Projects which have been
under implementaton for some time have been disbursing faster than the standard IDA disbusement
profile, while "younger" projects have been disbursig more slowly.
58.       Portfolio Performance. The FY89-91 downward trend of project indicators has been
reversed. The average indicator for overall project status, which worsened from 1.7 in FY89 to 2.0
in FY91, improved to 1.9 in FY94. The development indicators also showed a similar trend: they
worsened in FY89-91 and improved in FY91-94. These ir'Drovements are not, however, reflected in
the disbursement lag as defined in Table 2. This lag, which measures the percentage difference
between actual cumuaive disbursents and projected cumuve disbursements (appraisa data),
increased in FY91-94 (see Table 2). While the worsening of the indicator is mainly due to overly
optimistic projections of disbursements at appraisal,4 the relatively high disbUrsement lag reflecXt
4     C4nipfn acal diban wit disbursCeaasni projeced on dhe basis of IDA std dise  profiles rveals a diffl
tend, wih the dir_  lag flng from 41.3 percent i PY91 to 38.8 peen in FY93.



- 17 -
systemic factors. including Government's lack of familiarity with IDA procedures, resulting in
protracted procurement processing, limited implementation capacity, and the centralization of project
management by "core" ministries. More recently, the lack of funding for operations and maintenance
(O&M) has become an important constraint affecting project disbursement. In addition, there has
been a substantial change in Government priorities and objectives following the end of the civil war
and improved security in rural areas, which meant that several IDA projects were no longer consistent
with the country's development objectives. In total, one-ird of Mozambique's disbursement lag was
accounted for by two problem projects (Industrial Enterprises, and Education II>.
59.       To improve project miplementation, efforts to restructure the existing portfolio are being
intensified. Where implementationproblems reflected changed Government priorities, we have sought
to address them by modifying the project scope or by cancelling components to which the Government
is no longer committed. Two projects, Education II and Industrial Enterprises, considered problem
projects, have thus been restructured. The education project was redesigned to increase the
rehabilitation of primary schools in rural areas and the provision of leanung materials to primary
schools, and the Industrial Enterprise project was substantially modified to support privatization rather
thn the rehabilitation of state enterprises. Further restructuring efforts involve the three on-going
agricultural projects (rated 2) (Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development, Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation, and Rural Restructuring), which are being adjusted to adapt objectives, coverage and
implementation arrangement to the new situation and opportunities created by improved security in
rural areas. Restrucring plans are also underway for the Health n project (rated 2). These plans
entail streamlining components in view of other donor programs, adding new high priority
components (such as drug procurement), and re-allocating funds from the capital city to mral areas
(one-fourth of the credit) to support the rehabilitation of social in mtructure in rural areas. Finally,
we are also modifying the Legal and Public Sector Capacity Building Project with the objective of
separating the project into several independent components with a clearer allocation of funds among
them.
60.       A key objective of project restructuring is to foster sustainable development in
Mozambique by increasing local ownermhip of projects and adjusting implementation
Irrang   nt to local capabiities. This is being achieved (whenever appropriate) by: (i) reducing
the nmber of project management unis to transfer full implementation and supervision responsibility
to one central government unit; (ii) increasing the role of local govermments in project implementation
by strengthening the implementation units at the local level; (iii) simplifying implementation
arrangements to better match local inplementation capacities and permit a significant reduction in
long-term technical assistance (the redesign of implementation arrangements involves the transfer of
direct implementation responsibility for some investment and services, such as input supply, extension
and research, to the private sector, including NGOs and farmers associations). In addition to using
traditional project indicators such as project performance and disbursement ratios, we will be
assessing the results of the restructuing of Mozambique's portfolio through qualitative indicators such
as government commitment, beneficiary involvement and suitability of project design to country
conditions.
61.       Inadequate budgetary funding of O&M has been a major issue in on-going operations
in the social sectors, and a focus of IDA policy dialogue with Government. As agreed under the
ERC, budgetary allocations for the social sectors have been increased in real terms for the social
sectors. To improve further the allocation of resources and ensure the susinability of donor-financed
projects, a public expenditure review focused on the social sectors has been initiated by donors.
Through donor/IDA working groups, we will work closely with Govermnent to develop clear sectoral



- 18 -
priorities and improved budgetary allocations, and develop sector-wide invesmuent prgram   (see
paragraphs 39 and 41).
Table 2: Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Perfonnance and Maagenen
(As of April 30, 1994)
FY91         FY92          FY93         FY94
Porolio Performae
Number of Projects Under inplementation                        14            17           22            22
Average mlemenoa  Penod (years)                               2.5           2.9           2.8          3.3
Aveage Rafts
Developmat Objectives                                      2.00          1.82          1.82         1.70
Overa   s                                                  2.0o          2.00          2.05         1.87
Percent of Projets Rated 3 or 4
Development Objectives                                      7.1          11.8           9.1          8.7
Oveal Status                                               14.3          11.8           9.1          8.7
Cancelled duting FY
Disbursemen Ratio' (%)                                       10.5          10.7          11.3          6.5
Disbursement La2  ()                                         42.3          44.3          44.5         45.8
Memorandum Item: % of Projects Ratd Unsadsftory                 -             -             -            -
Portfolo Management
Supervision Resources (otal SW)                               198           174           312          297
Average Supervision (SWlProject)                               14            10            14           13
Supermssion Resources by Imaon (%)
Perent Headquutes                                            97            95           95            90
Percent Residem Mission                                       3             5             5           10
SupeviSion Reu    by Rating Category (SWSlproject)
Projects Rated 1 or 2                                      13.3          IOA           13.5         13.7
Projects Rated 3 or 4                                      18.7           8.6          20.8         18.6
Memorandum Item: Date of LastNext CPPR                                   Feb-92        Oct-92       Jut-94
Ratios of disbursements during the year to te undisbursed balanee of the Bank's portolo at the begiming of the year.
2 Perentge difference between actu  cumlative disburserents and dwt origiu1 cum ulative disbe     estimates.
62.           At a broader imtimional level, our poliy dialogue bas focused on institutonal reorms
of project ma gment.  A  large part of the problem  is that while the Government has moved
quickly toward a market-based economy, Govermment agencies and procedur    remain  largely
unchanged. Thus, all the special accounts established under IDA-financed projects were managed



- 19 -
financially by the Central Bank, and nearly all technical assistance contracts had to be reviewed by
the Ministry of Finance. IDA has impressed on the central bank the need to decentralize the financial
management of projeets to the implementing agencies to simplify administrative procedures and
accelerate disbursemeats. This is being done. Streamlining of procedures at the Ministry of Finance
for the approval of contracts is, however, proceeding at a slower pace. These issues will be further
discussed during the forthcomin, CPPR.
63.       Other measures for improving implementation include: carrying out systematic beneficiary
assessments and mid-term reviews, strengthening the role of the Resident Mission in project
implementation, increasing project supervision and providing better procurement support to the project
implementation units. Two Country Iplementation Reviews (CIRs) were held in 1991 and 1992,
and a CPPR is planned for mid-1994. An implementation unit in the Resident Mission has been
established. In addition to active participation in the supervision of the Mozambique portfolio, the
Resident Mission Staff is providing task management for three projects in FY93. In order to expedite
disbursements, the Residet Mission will also screen withdrawal applications and follow-up on
disbursement related problems.
64.       Substantial progress has been achieved with audit, specia account, and procurement.
The number of overdue audits has been reduced from fifteen in April 1993 to none by early 1994.
It is now expected that all the audits will be submitted on time. In the case of adjustment operations,
agreement has been reached that all import support fuinds would be jointly audited. Similar progress
has been achieved with respect to special accounts. Issues concerning unrecovered special accounts
and dormant accounts were resolved. Problems experienced by our borrowers in applying IDA
procurement procedures have been alleviated through greater involvement on the part of procurement
advisors, both from the Department's recently created Procurement Unit and the Africa Technical
Department, in the supervision of various projects. A Country Procurement Assessment Report has
been prepared and used to initiate procurement policy dialogue with the Govenmment. More timely
and efficient procedures are being pursued by broadening the use of standard procurement documents
as part of agreed sectoral strategies with other donors active in Mozambique. Furthermore, the
procurement capacity of the Resident Mission is being strengthened in order to provide better support
to the Borrower's implementation units. In particular, it is intended that the Resident Mission
perform the basic bidding document review to minimize time lost in sending documents to
headquarters for initial review.
65.       Problems in implementation, resulting from weak institutions, have been aggravated by
the multiplication of investment projects and a concomitant rise in technical assstance. In its current
form, technical assistance has focused on short-term implementation rather than on institution
building, and it has weakened the government apparatus by inducing civil servants to work as local
consultants with the result that even short-term implementation capacity is being undermined. As
already noted, this issue is being pursued through several actions, including developing an integrated
sectoral based investment program, and reaching agreement on a "code of conduct" for technical
assistance with donors.
Level and Composition of IDA Assitnce
66.       Future IDA Lendiug. In recent years, donors' assistance has been largely directed to
relieving the effects of poverty and food insecurity resultng from Mozanbique's turbulent history,
IDA assistance has also focussed to a considerable extent on assisting the Government implement
policies of econonic reform and mobilize an appropriate level of resources for structural adjustment,



-20
while building up institutionl capacity for economic management. For the future, as the peace
process takes over and emergency assistance is no longer necessary, the Bank strategy will shift
increasingly to ensure not only effective implementation of economic reform but also that external
resources for investment are utilized more efficiendy.
67.       Under the base case scenario described earlier - which would imply that Mozambique
remains in good standing under the IMF program - commitments from IDA would average US$240
to $270 million per year over FY94-98. The proposed level of adjustment lending in general, and
the size of the proposed SERC in particular reflects an IDA share of import support funds of around
30 percent. In the longer term, adjustnent lending should be reduced as the economy recovers from
the civil war. But the large-scale financial needs associated with traition from a war to peace-time
economy preclude any immediate reduction. Under a downside scenario, if the adjustment programn
were to come off track, IIDA lending would be sharply curtailed, and limaited to those sectors that have
a direct impact on poverty reduction. We would therefore maintain lending for the social sectors
(health and education) and smallholder development. Under that scenario, IDA commitment would
fall to US$60 million per year on average over the next five years. Obviously, a worst case scenario,
with a breakdown of the peace process "a la Angola", would signify a radical revision of IDA
assistance and, possibly cessation of operations altogether.
68.       The overall level and pace of Bank assistance for Mozambique takes into account progress
made in the implementation of the ESRP as well as the feasibility of specific operations in the light
Of improving security. Criteria for monitoring progress include: (i) satisfactory disbursement of on-
going projects within a given sector; and (ii) fomiulation and adoption of a sectoral lending strategy
agreed by Govermnent and donors. Priority in lending operations has therefore been given to
reviewing on-going projects to ensure that they reflect development priorities resulting from the new
environment created by peace, and to moving towards the integrated sector approach. At present, no
investment operations are envisaged for FY95 as the Government needs time to absorb the ongoing
and proposed substantial adjustment measures and also to rationalize the project portfolio, sector by
sector. However, if significantly faster progress can be made in developing the integrated sector
approach in agriculture or health, those operations, now planned for FY96 could be advanced.
69.       It would be important, in assessing the status of progress under the structural adjustment
process, to distinguish between lapses that; may occur because of limited implementation capacity,
even within the gradualist approach adopted, and conscious policy reversals or serious deviations in
governance. The former would require joint, and prompt, corrective action; the later, a revision of
the appropriate scenario for IDA assistance. To correctly diagnose the situation, the departnent will
contnue, and intensify, the practice of client consultation, in addition to closely monitoring a number
of selected economic indicators that the authorities have undertaken to provide to IDA, via the
Resident Mission, on a regular basis.5
Cooperation with Other Donors
70.       Mozambique's dependence on foreign aid makes coordination among donors essental.
Since 1987, the Bank has successfully assisted the Government in mobilizing external assistance
through annual CG meetings. These meetings, and SPA meetings, have become an effective
IThese indtors incude: exports (five main export ms); imflion (consumer pe index); excange Me (difaental between the
paralld and the official excange rate); count_t fumds (mobation) imot upport fin&s (dk_senes); CUrRnt budget expends; Sax
consec.n metaty suvey



-21 -
mechanism for donor consultation and coordinadon on substantive issues. A great deal has been
achieved in untying foreign aid, providing aid in the form of grants rather than loans, simplifying and
harmonizing donor procedures for procurement, developing common donor procedures with respect
to management of food aid counterpart funds, -and developing a strategy for poverty reduction and
food security. The Resident Mission plays a cental role in aid coordination and in setting up joint
Governmenttdonor working groups to develop strategies and core expenditure programs in three key
sectors, namely education, health and agriculture. Coordination at the macroeconomic level is being
developed through the recent seting up of an import support working group, chaired by the Governor
of the Bank of Mozambique and consisting of local donors and high level civil servants.
71.      Cooperation with the IMF is particularly dose. IDA and the IMF have worked closely
with Government in the design of Mozanmbique's adjustment program. Since 1987, the Bank and IMF
have had annual joint missions to develop, with Government, the three-year Policy Framework Papers
as well as to review the implementation of the adjustment program. Bank and Fund staff have been
in consultation with the macroeconomic program which provides the underpinning for the SERC.
IFC and MIGA Activites
72.      In response to an increase in investor interest in Mozambique, IFC plans to expand its
activities in the country. IFC activities continue to be limited to foreign exchange earnngs operations
with offshore accounts to ensure that foreign exchange is available for debt service. In FY87, IFC
approved a loan for the rehabilitation and privatization of a major agricultural company, LOMACO.
In FY88 IEC approved an investment for an oil exploration project, and in FY91, IFC approved a
loan for a hotel project (Cardoso), which was dropped in FY92. In FY92, IFC approved a loan for
a hotel project in Maputo (Polana), which was disbursed in FY93. IPC is currendy considering
investments in a wood chipping plant and a soft-drink botting plant. FIAS coninues to work with
the govermment to effectively implement new foreign investment legislation. FIAS's assistance is
designed to assist the Investment Promotion Center (CPI) to build its capacity as in investment
promoton center rather than a screening agency, as it was designed under previous legislation. FIAS
is also advising the CPI on revising existing legislation and procedures to make Mozambique a more
competitive location for foreign investment.
E.       Agenda for Board Consideration
73.      Overall Evaluation. Mozambique has implemented, with reasonable success, a difficult
adjustmen program in extaordinarily adverse circumstnces, and with etremely limited instittional
capacity. Major price distortions have been elimnated; production, marketing, and internal trade
have been largely liberalized; and a basic framework for private sector development has been put in
place. There has also been significant progress on stabilization, enterprise reform, financial sector
development and fiscal reform, but because all -these areas require instimtuional change and capacity
growth rather than mere stroke-of-the-pen measures, much remains to be done. And there have been
some lapses in policy: inadequate pricing of cashew nuts and the prohibition of the export of
unprocessed cashew nuts is an important one; less than speedy progress in reforming some of the
large parastatals (railways and airline) is another.
74.      Mozambique has now reached a crossroads in its political and econormic development.
Agreement has been reached that the country's first multiparty elections would take place in October
1994, and demobilization is proceeding with 48,000 soldiers, or 60 percent of the total expected,
having arrived in the assembly areas. Overall, the security situation has remained stable with



- 22 -
relatively few violent incidents. As a result, large migratory movements have taken place since the
peace agreement. According to UN data, some 2.8 million internally displaced people have resettled
in rural areas and some 800,000 refugees have retumed to Mozaunbique. Nevertheless, Mozambique
remams extremely vulnerable during the current transition. Internally, the political transition to
democracy will not be easy as it involves the development of new forms of government. The peace
agreement makes it possible to manage Mozambique as a whole entity, eliminating the segmentation
that exists between the humanitarian assistance -and the national development programs focused on
economii developmern. However, it also generates new demands on scarce fiscal resources stemming
from the need to rehabilitate the social and economnic infastructure in rural areas. Externally, as in
the past, future developments in South Africa involve risks and benefits. The risks stem from the loss
of mining jobs and the resulting decline in workers' remittances. However, Mozamnbique could
benefit in terms of increased direct foreign investment from South African firms and banks.
75.      Against this difficuit background, the Government has committed itself to a complex
agenda. What is needed now is to revive production disrupted by the war in order to increase exports
and reduce dependency on external aid, and to strengthen institutonal capacity to manage the
economy. Over the next 18 months, external financing requirements will actually increase to meet
new demands stemming from demobilization, resettlement, and reconstruction, and over the medium
term continuing external financial support and furither debt relief, including debt forgiveness, will be
needed. However, by the year 2002 dependence on external finance should have fallen to average
sub-Saharan African levels.
76.      Despite reasonably good performance so far, there are considerable risks in -the
Mozambique's program. While the demobilization program has so far proceeded reasonably well,
the reintegration of demobilized soldiers into civilian life offers a difficult challenge. Unless
development programs and accelerated growth offer increased economic opportunities, insecurity may
remain high. The current high level of reliance on balance of payments assistance and the high debt
service burden mean that any significant policy shortcoming could result in an unraveling of
international support. The low level of living standards and the income decline experienced by some
groups mean that the support for the Government's adjustment program may not last if the current
economic recovery does not deliver some immediate tangible benefits. If this were to happen, there
would be significant risks that the Government would relax the fiscal restraint. With the help of the
international community, Mozambique is taking strong measures to address these sources of risk, and
performance to date has merited the high level of financial support received by Mozambique. Most
fundamentally, on the positive side, Mozambique has progressed towards national reconciliation, and
transformed its economy from state domination to private markets. The restoration of peace
throughout the country makes it possible for the Govemment to manage Mozambique as a whole
entity, and to move from short-term emergency programs to longer term sustainable development.
The oppornity for such a change is at hand, and IDA can play a critical role in this transition. IDA
strategy in Mozambique is designed to engage Government and donors in a process of reassessment
of sectoral and macroeconomic strategies to reflect changes in the national economy, and improvement
in Govermment's capacity to formulate and implement long-term development strategies. Much wiUl
depend on the development of a coordinated development effort focused on the gradual phasing out
of emergency programs to provide Mozambique with the means to meet the challenge of economic
development and poverty reduction.



- 23 -
m.    SECONID ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.        Objectives and Strategy
77.       The proposed SERC is designed to be an important element of the government strategy
to take advantage of the new era of peace in Mozambique and to create an environment for rapid
recovery and sustained growth. The Government, and its post-election successor, will need to
strengthen its capacity for macro management of an economy with large internal and external
imbalances. It must, at the sane tine, continue the process of structural adjustment. The proposed
SERC will support actions in four main areas, whie providing needed balance of payments financing:
(a)    Management of Public Expedtures and Exterm  Aid. Continuation of sound macro-
economic management - specifically measures to improve the management of public
expenditures and external aid. There is a particularly pressing need to deal with a
multiplicity of donor aid programs, develop coherent sectoral strategies, and ensure that
Government priorities are implemented - within the budgetary constraints faced by the
Govermnent and while ensuring that expenditures on social sector activities are adequately
supported.
(b)    Monetary Policy and Stregte    the Central Bank. Further steps to strengthen the
central bank to enable it to play a leadership role in conducting monetary policy, help
develop some basic tools of indirect monetary policy management, and foster the
development of a sound and efficient banking system through effective regulation and
supervision.
(c)    The Finandal Sector. Restructuring the financial sector and, in particular, dealing with
the problems in the state owned banks (which are an important source of monetary
expansion - having an adverse impact on macroeconomic stability), while seeking to
upgrade the quality of banking services by preparing the state banks for privatization and
encouraging the entry of new private sector banks.
(d)    Enterprise Reform. The next steps in enterprise reform, particularly the elimination of
implicit subsidies to large, predominantly state-owned enterprises, the continued
privatization (or liquidation) of these enterprises, the establishment of concrete action
plans to restore the financial soundness of large public monopolies (such as the railways),
that are expected to remain in the public sector for the present, and the removal of
constraints that are adversely affecting the performance of the enterprise sector and
discouraging foreign investors.
78.       This program of inter-related activities is considered crucial for three main reasons: first,
macroeconomic stability will remain elusive unless existing monetary and financial leakages within
the economy are brought under control; second, the financial condition of the banks in Mozambique
will remain weak as long as their major client base is comprised of poorly performing, state owned
enterprises; and third, real enterprise reform has reached a stage in the adjustment process where it
is being impeded by a lack of adequate financial services. There is a need therefore to address, at
the same time, macroeconomic instability and monetary leakages, enterprise reform, and the bankdng
system.



-24 -
B.        Policy agenda of the SERC
Macroeconomic Management/Public Expenditures and Extern Aid
79.       Macroeconomic Management. A necessary element of success for the SERC operation
will be satisfactory macroeconomic management - with progress expected in areas enunciated in the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP). In both the preparadon of the SERC and the PFP, IDA has worked
closely with the International Monetary Fund and the Government to ensure consistency of overall
objectives. Under the terms of the agreed macroeconomic program the Government of Mozambique
is committed to restoring macroeconomic balance and financial viability as prerequisites to attaining
sustained economic growth and overcoming the extreme poverty that afflicts nearly two thirds of the
population. The development strategy focuses on fostering growth and employment in the private
sector, raising public sector efficiency, and reducing external imbalances. Together with the IMF,
IDA will monitor overall macroeconomic progress, as part of the SERC program. Sadsfactory
progress on the overal maeroeconomic program is a condiion of second and dird tranche release
of the SERC.
80.       Since 1987, fiscal policy emphasis has been on reducing the budget deficit. Significant
steps have also been made in:
tio   integrating the bulk of grant aid into the budget;
rationalizing the composition of expenditures - with increases for the social sectors;
t     introducing a three year rolling investment plan.
81.       However, additional elements of budgetary reform are required, especially over the
transition period when demands for additional resources to cover the costs of demobilization,
resettlement and elections coincide with the need to rehabilitate health and education facilities
hroughout all of Mozambique - rather than just in the major urban centers which were the only parts
of Mozambique safely accessible during the civil war. While donors have responded to this new
situation by increasing external finaing, there is a lack of budgetary resources to finance the
recurrent costs generated by new projects. To alleviate the Government's limited capacitY to
implement an enlarged investmentprogram, donors are relying on increased technical assistance. Yet,
the resulting technical assistance tends to undermine Govermnent's institutional capacity rather than
strengthen it. Within this environment, the objectives of the SERC are to: (i) strengthen the
prioritization of development expenditures; and (ii) ensmure that essential activities are maintained in
the social sectors. In addition, the SERC seeks to (iii) limit subsidies flowing to state owned
enterprises (SOE's) through the budget.
82.       The priotion of development expenditures will be strengthened through the
preparation of integrated sectoral investment and recurrent expenditure programs in three key sectors:
health, education, and agriculture. With peace, the Govemment can now manage Mozambique as a
complete entity, eliminating the segmentation that has existed between humanitarian assistance and
development programs focused on economic development. The current fragmented donor-financed
investment projects will need to be restructured into integrated sector-based investments. This
approach implies the preparation of strategies that are sector wide in scope, comprise aUl donors active
in the sector, support a common government-owned sector policy, involve a rationalization of
technical assistance, and establish implementation arrangements that are largely uniform. These
integrated sector programs would need to be fully reflected in the recurrent budget and the rolling
three-year investment plan. This undertaking is confirmed in the Letter of Development Policy.



-25 -
83.      Sodal dector Expendtures. During the 1980s there was a relative decline in budget
expenditures on health and education. The ERC addressed this by providing for increases in the 1992
education and health budgets (for funds from domestic sources) of 1.5 percent and 4.5 percent in real
terms, respectively. In addition, expenditures on dcugs and medical supplies were increased to $1.00
per capita. Further real increases in social sector expenditures would certainly be highly desirable.
However, as the Government is now embarking upon a difflcult transition period during whicb there
will be many competing claims on budgetary resources, it may be difficult to achieve furher real
incrases in expenditure in these sectors. Nonetheless, it is important that gains made in these
sectors, should not be lost over the tramsition. Therefore as part of the SERC program, Government
will at least maintain budgetary allocations on goods and services for education and health - in real
terms. This has already been provided for in the 1994 budget and will be maitained in the
preparation of the 1995 budget. This is confirmed in the Letter of Development Policy.
84.      Sodal Safety Net. As a continug program, supported by the SERC operation, the
poorest urban households - generally female or disable-headed households - will continue to be
provided with modest income transfers to assist them cope during the adjustment process. Currently
60,000 households are covered by these arrangements and there are plans for the coverage to be
extended to more than 70,000 households - as part of a social safety net mechanism. This system
of income transfers is targeted at those least able to develop their own income earing opportuities
and, to date, the scheme appears to be working well. The scheme is to be audited in the middle of
1994, and pending the outcome of the audit, adjusted as needed and expanded thereafter.
85.      Subsidies to State Owned Entprises. Subsidies to State Owned Enterprises have also
been declining since 1987. Unfortunately, implicit subsidies have continued to be provided to SOE's
through the banking system. Under the financial sector components of the SERC operation this
source of implicit subsidy will no longer be possible. Although this may result in a reversion of some
subsidies to the budget - they will at least become more transparent, and the costs of supporting
inefficient SOEs will become clearly evident. Nonetheless, it is important that subsidies from this
source should be stictly limited. To ensure that implicit banking subsidies are not replaced by
budgetary subsidies, as a condion of Second Trache, subsidies to SOE's hrough the naional
budget will not exceed 1 percent of GDP, in the 1995 budget. In the current (1994) budget,
subsidies have been maintained below this level. Strictly limiting budgetary subsidies, while stopping
lending to non-performing SOE's, will effectively impose a hard budget constraint on ste enterprises
which do not operate on a commercial basis.
Monetay Policy and St       g  the Central Bank
86.       Stucural progress has been achieved in the financial sphere, including:
(     New Central Bank and Banking Act (1991 and 1992);
BM and BCM accounts have been split, institutions separated and staff divided;
'r    Regulations and procedures have been issued for licensing of new banks;
t     Interest rates have been progressively deregulated;
A market based system has been introduced for foreign exchange allocation;
-     The legal and institutional framework for prudential regulation and supervision of the
banking system has been established.
87.      The conditionality in this area is designed to strengthen Banco de Mopambique in its key



-26 -
central banking functions; develop the elements of indirect monetary policy management and banking
supervision; and put incentives in place which will lead to greater savings mobilization in the
economy.
88.      Strengthening Monetary Policy Capabilities. Under the lMF's program, quarterly
benchmarks are set on net domestic assets and net bank credit to the Government. This program has
led to a reduction in inflation - although clearly furither progress is required. It is now necessary for
the central bank to develop modern tools of monetary management for the futre (while improving
on the direct methods of credit control now in place), including indirect interest rate management,
discount rates, and Treasury Bills. It is also necessary to strengthen the existing statistical information
base and the capacity of the central bank to analyze data and formulate appropriate policy decisions.
(a)   INrEREST RATES. Under the reform program, interest rates have been progressively
deregulated. Currently, only a maximum lending rate and a twelve month deposit rate
are set by the central bank. Table 3 shows nominal and real interest rates since 1987.
Although progress has been made on achieving positive real lending rates - this has been
achieved with high nominal interest rates. It is the Govermnent's objective to fully
liberalize interest rates once money markets and indirect monetary policy instruments can
be developed and inflation is brought more firmly under control. Another aim of interest
rate policy, is to achieve a shift in the deposit structure from demand deposits (92 percent
of deposits) to time deposits. New banking entry and greater competition will greatly
assist this process - as will lower maflation. These understandings are reflected in the
Letter of Development Policy.
(b)   DIsCOUNT RATE POLCY. Currently Banco de Morambique only has a discount policy to
provide very short term liquidity to the banking system. Although not an issue for most
banks - which are currently highly liquid - this is pertinent for BCM which is illiquid.
In the past, BCM has borrowed on overdraft from the central bank at no cost, putting it
at an advantageous position vis a vis other banks in the system. To address this, as well
as the future need of the banking system to have discountable instruments against which
the banks can obtain liquidity, the central bank will introduce a more comprehensive
discount policy - applicable to all banks on the same basis - which will provide normal
short-term liquidity support (up to 180 days). Banks will no longer have access to
overdraft financing from BM and will pay a rate of interest for emergency liquidity
support that would encourage primary recourse to deposit mobilization. As a conditon
of Second Tranche release, the cenal bank wifurther develop as discount ratepoliy
to provide emergency liquidity support to the commercial banks.
(C)    TREASURY BILLS. Another objective of monetary policy is the securitization of
Government debt. Currently, Govermment deficit financing is from its overdraft position
with the central bank. However, the Government should bear the "true cost" of its
borrowing as this will help foster fiscal discipline. Securitization would also provide
banks with an interest bearing financial instrument on which they could earn a reasonable
rate of retum. Securitization would also assist the development of money markets.
Iniiang a pilot auction of Treasury Bgls is a condftion of Thid Thmnche release. The
development of these markets will be gradual, and wiU be aided by the creation of a more
stable macroeconomic enviromnent. This represents only the first step in developing
these markets.



-27-
(d)    MONETARY DATA AND sTRENGTHNG OF Poucy cAPAarIs. Modem monetay
management will not be possible without better data capabilities within Banco de
Mogambique - as well as a better capacity to analyze these data. Hence, the cental bank
has recendy produced the first edition of a central bank quarterly economic builetin.
During 1994 a further four editions of this bulletin will be produced which will gradually
improve in sistical qualty and the scope of economic activities covered. In addition,
an effort will be made to inject some econmic nalysis into this bulletin over time.
Banco de Mosambique will also recruit a monetary policy advisor to work in its Research
Departmen, durn  1994, to help develop analytical capabilities frtfher and to provide
policy advice. These issues are reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.
Table 3: Nominal and Real Lending Rates in Mozambique
(1987 to 1993)
Nominal Inres Rates                                 Real Interes Rates
Lowes    Highs           CPI (% gowth)           Lowest     Highes
Ra      ' Rat                                    Rate       Ra.
1987              12.0      35.0            163.3                -151.3      -128.3
1988              12.0      35.0             50.1                 -38.1      -15.1
1989              15.0      35.0             42.1                 -27.1       -7.1
1990              27.0      35.0             47.1                 -20.1      -12.1
1991              32.5      42.0             35.2                  -2.7        6.8
1992              39.0      44.0             54.5                 -15.5      -10.5
1993              n.        46.0             44.0                  n.a.        2.0
Scum' Bow de Mopmtk.
89.       Ba_kIng Regulation and Supervison. In 1992 a banking supervision department was
created in Banco de Moambique. However, stffing of this deparment has only recently taken
place. These newly appointed staff need to develop their capabilities to monitor the performance of
ban  and to undertake on-sight review of loan portfolios - thereby providing prudentia oversight
to the baing system. BM has appointed an expert from Banco de Porugal to assist the bank in
establishing the essential fuctions of the bank supervision departme. This advisor is responsible
for stengting the banking supervision department, writng banking regulatons and examiation
manuals, and developing a system of off-site surveillance. Adequate stafing of the Bank Supervision
Departmen (there are currenly eight local techncal staff   the departnt) and dhe recrutmet of
an advisor t streongthen the departnmn, was a conditon of negotations. To furnher help train the
local staff in this department, as well as commence work on the first loan portfolio examinaton of
the bank in Mozambique, the central bank has recently recmited a team of four bank supervisors to
work with the deparanent for a period of six months. The recndtment of dese bank eminers to
work in the bank supervision deartment to deteamine the statw of the loan portfolios of the banks,
and train local staff, was a conditon of negotions. Compleng the examnaton/leo  portfolio
reviw is a cond Won of Second Tranche.



-28 -
90.      Regulations on provisioning against bad and doubtful debts, capital adequacy, and loan
linits/exposures, based upon internationally accepted practice, have been dtscussed, agreed with IDA,
and circulated within the banking community. The Provisioning Regulation, in particular, is
umportant as it contatns lmts on coninued lending to poorly performig bank customers. The
implementation of this regulation will assist in stemming frther bank losses from lending to non-
viable clients. The finalion and dissenation of regulations on proisionng policy, capital
adequacy, and loan limitslexposures, which took place at the end of January 1994, was a condtion
of negotions. Over time, it will also be necessary for the bank supervision department to develop
a system of off-site reporting for the commercial banks so that their performance can be continually
monitored for potential problems. The development and implementation of a simplified quarterly off-
site reporting system for commercial banks is reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.
91.      Foreign Exae Ma ent. Over time, the central bank has centralized the system
of foreign exchange managemnt - away from various Government deparments and agencies - so
as to provide central accountability to the donor conmunity which provides a large proportion of the
country's foreign exchange resources. Good progress has been made under the ERC. Capacity
within the central bank is mproving and reporting systems have been developed which meet donor
requlrements. Delays in the processing of foreign exchange applications are now minimal. As the
system improves furiher, it wil be possible to delegate foreign exchange allocation to the commercial
banlks, thereby greatly stamlining allocative mechanisms. Whereas foreign exchange dealings were
previously restricted to BCM, during 1993, all three private banks entered this market. This has
added some competitive pressure in terms of both quality of service and charges on these transactions.
The donor commuity has become more confident with the central bank's performance as a result of
the new reporting data base which provides donors with details on the utilization of their funds from
find commitment through to payment of countervalue.
92.       Banco de Mopambique has also recruited an advisor to assist in strengthening the foreign
exchange departments of the central bank - as well as to help revise the legal framework. An
important part of the advisor's work will be to re-draft the Foreign Exchange Act and supporting
regulations. ConWletng a sadsfactoy final draft Foreign Exchange Act, and subming it to
Pa rlament, is a condiion of Second Tranche relesae. Submission to IDA of draft Foreign
Exchange Regulaons as a condifion of Tiard Thanche release.
93.      Accoutig. Mozambique does not have a strong tradition of accountig and audtn.
To date, only (private) Banco Standard Totta de Mooambique, has produced audited accounts. The
production of Banco de Mocambique accounts was further complicated by its amalgamaton with
BCM, prior to 1992. Absence of timely, audited, cental bank accowuts, has impaired the capacity
of the monetary authorities to undertake proper policy initiatives. The submission of audited 1993
Mfinancial statnts, is a condition of Second TInche retease. A major accounting problem
has been caused by the inability of the banks to clear inter-bank and inter-branch accounts. This has
led to a build up of unreconciled transitory accounts which has created a serious macroeconomic
problem. A 1993 IMF mission reviewed the payments system and clearing mechaisms and
recommended the utilization of external assistance in the central banlk to help address this problem.
Under the SERC program, the Government plans to reduce the level of transitory accounts in the
banling system and streamline the overall payments system - with the support of an external
payments advisor, funded by the IMF, who has been in place in Maputo since March 1994. These
undertakings are reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.



-29 -
The FImdal Sector
94.       Measures in the financial sector are primarily designed to, first, address problems caused
by monetary leakages from the banking system which impact adversely upon macroeconomic stabflity
and, second, to create conditions for the development of a more efficient and competitive banking
system. T'he process will be assisted by a companion Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit,
approved by the World Bank board in April 1994, which provides trnuig and skills up-grading to
the staff of fiaial instiations in Mozambique. Importantly, as part of the SERC program, the
savings mobilization role of the banks will also be strengthened through the introduction of measures
designed to encourage Banco Comercial de Mogambique to look increasingly to domestic resource
moblization, and the introduction of a bank-by-bank credit ceiling allocation mechanism based more
explicidy on savings mobilization.
95.      Sttre of Mozmbiques FP dal Sedor: Mozambique has a rudimetary financial
system, comprising (i) Banco de Mogambique - the central bank; (ii) two state-owned commercial
banks - BCM (which until 1992 was part of BM) and Banco Popular de Desenvolvimnento (BPD);
(iii) three privately owned commercial banks - Banco Standard Totta de Mooambique (BSTM) and
two recently licensed banks - Banco de Pomento e Exterior and Banco Portugues do Atl3ntico; (iv)
an insurance sector dominated by the State owned insurance company - Empresa Mouambicana de
Seguros (EMOSE) but which, since 1992, includes two privately owned insurance companies (hmpa
and IGl); and (v) an institution, owned by the Government and the state banks, which was established
to provide secondary market support for the development of money and capital market instruments
- Sociedade de Investimentos e Estudos Financeiros (SOCIEF).
96.      Commercial banking is dominated by the two state-owned banks - BCM and BPD which
currently hold 70 percent and 19 percent respectively of the assets of the commercial bankdng system
(see Table 4). Banking activity has been segmented and uncompetitive. BPI) has mainly lent to
agriculture - although it has increasigly diversified its lending portfolio, particularly into commerce
and trade related lending activities. BPD also took over the savings collection functions of the old
postal savings system, and thereby provides a nationwide deposit taking network. BCM, on the other
hand, has historically been associated with the state enterprise sector. Until recently, it was the only
bank engaged in foreign exchange dealings, which gave it a monopoly on trade financing. As a resut
of the reform process, BCM now competes with BPD, BSTM and the two new banks for forex
business. While inefficient by any modern standards, the two state banks together provide a
comprehensive nation-wide service through their 200 branches, agencies and collection posts.
97.      There is a need to strengthen the role of-the Mozambican banks as financial intermediaries
- both in mobilizing savings and allocating them efficiently. In the past, the state banks have had
no pressing need to mobilize domestic sources of funding as the central bank has provided a cost free
source of funds on overdraft - and many of the banks have been highly liquid as a consequence of
lax Government fiscal policy. In addition, credit allocation was dictated by the national plan and
hence there was no requirement for banks to assess and price lending risks. Progress has been made
with respect to the allocation function of the banks. Increasingly BCM, and even more so BPD, have
moved away from servicing the state enterprise sector and private sector activities now account for
at least half of their new business. This has sigificandy stopped the leakage of credit to non-
performing customers, while ensuring that more efficient private sector borrowers obtain access to
loanable funds. With savings mobilizaton, however, BCM has made less progress - contimuing to
rely on the central bank as a source of liquidity. Actions supported by SERC will seek to enhance
the role of the banking sector as a mobilizer of domestic savings within the economy.



-30 -
Table 4: Commerdal Bank Share of Total Assets, Loans and Deposits
(Mt million, as at te end of December 1992)
TOTAL                TOTAL               TOTAL
ASSES      peCnt    LOANS    perent  DEPOSITS       percen
Banco Comcial de MoaIbqwe   1.437,394      69.6    492,657    66.4    791,756      60.3
BaMco Popubr de Desenvolvimemo  399,57     19.4    215,286    29.0    342,630      26.1
Stndard Tomi                  226.787      11.0     33.916     4.6    178,677      13.6
Bnco de Fomn= o Bxtroe            0        0.0         0       0.0         0        0.0
Bano PoMe do Adlniico             0        0.0         0       0.0         0        0.0
TOTAL                       2,063.759     100.0    741.859    100.0   1,313,063    100.0
3 Did ad commece opeAo U Marfc 1993.
0 DId am Commn opetatm un Sqee 1993..
SOURCE Thb hbiviu banth
98.       In the past, there have been two sources of leakage from the state banks - and
pticularly from BCM. One has been a continuation of lending to non-performing state owned
enterprises (credit). This now appears to have largely stopped, although it continues to represent most
of the stock-losses in BCM. The second soure of leahge has been "other items" which are
unidentified assets and liabilities, mainy represented by a growig volume of transitory (inter-bank
and inter-branch) items. This represents a seriousflow problem in the banks. The SERC credit deals
with both the stock of past delinquent loans - by establishing policies, regulations, and a supervisory
capacity to ensure that they do not reoccur - while simultaneously dealing with the flow problems
in the banks, to mitigate their impact upon macroeconomic stability.
99.       Government's vision for the sector. The Govenmment's aim for the medium-term is to
foster development of a financial sector dominated by privately-owned banks. Banks will operate on
a fully commercial basis, within a competitive enviromnent, without Govermnent interference, and
on an equal basis with one another. In addition, the range of financial institutions and financial
services offered would gradually be expanded over time to cover money markets, capital markets,
leasing, credit unions, competitive insurance activities, housing finance, and so on.
100.      Attaining this goal wiUl, however, require the Government to downsize the two state
banks' operations and prepare them to become serious privatization candidates. When BCM was
created as a separate entity, in early 1992, it inherited a substantial stock of non-performing loans
which had been made in the period 1987-1992. The central bank has made provisions for identified
bad loans which were made up to the point of separation of BCM from BM. Thereafter,
responsibility on the loan portfolio has clearly reverted to the management of the commercial banlk
Since coming into separate existence in 1992, BCM has viruly stopped making further credit
available to loss-making enterprises. Bank lending, especialy to large state owned enterprises, will



- 31 -
continue to be monitored throughout the program period, to ensure that lending continues in a
responsible manner.
101.     Transfonoiog the State Owned Bauks. Five broad policy options were considered in
dealing with the problems of BCM:
(a)    Recapitalization as a state owned bank. However, this did not appear to be a realistic or
viable option, given the global experience of recapitalizing state-owned banks, lack of
Government resources, and an urgent need for external skills within BCM.
(b)   Immediate privatization. Although conceptually attractive, this is not feasible at the
present time since no private partner could be found for a bank in BCM's condition.
(c)   Immediate liquidation. This is also unrealistic given BCM's place in the banking system,
its extensive branch network, and its role in the payments system of the country. To
liquidate BCM would be to effectively liquidate Mozambique's banking sector.
(d)    Do nothing. This would not be prudent, since Mozambique needs a properly regulated
bankdng sector, including close supervision of BCM, lest it should become involved in
activities which lead to further monetary expansion.
(e)    Agree on transitional arrangements - but with the medium term goal of downsizing and
privatizing the bank. Under these arrangements, BCM would be downsized as quicldy as
possible while preparing it for joint venture with a private partner. This appears to be
the most feasible option offering the greatest chance of achieving successful fiancial
reform.
102.     The transitional arrangements for BCM which are being supported by the SERC program
have been agreed with the Government in consultation with the International Monetary Fund and
involve: completing the accounting separation of BCM in such a manner as to create a smaller but
potentially viable institution that will be in a position to comply with Banco de Mogamnbique's new
prudental regulations; recognizing and dealing directly with losses resulting from accountng
imbalances in the combined BM/BCM in a manner that does not lead to increases in lendable
resources available to the new BCM or other types of monetary expansion; adopting tight financial
and lending policies designed to avoid increasing exposure to clients with non-performing loans;
building up liquidity in the bank so that it does not need recourse to overdraft support from the central
bank; and initiatimg work to develop medium term solutions to portfolio, financial, operational, and
management problems, determine areas where external management support will be required and
prepare the bank for joint venture or full privatization as soon as feasible.
103.     These arrangements are spelt out in the Letter of Development Policy backing the SERC
credit and key benchmarks have been reflected in tranche conditionality. Completing the accountng
separation of SCM and BM in a safactory manner was a condition of credit negotitaons. This
accounting separation has been undertaken in such a manner as to restrict BCM's future banking



32 -
activities6 - and it will oblige BCM's management to more aggressively mobilize domestic deposits,
as recourse to central bank overdraft facilities will no longer be possible. Currently, most of BCM's
deposit base is held as zero interest earning demand deposits. An upward movement in deposit rates
would help the bank address the constraints imposed by the above arrangements, as well as having
a beneficial impact on savings mobilization in the economy.
104.      Until the late 1980s, Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento functioned moL.. as a
development bank than as a commercial bank. Although BPD suffers from some of the same
portfolio and financial problems as BCM, it is a signficantly smaller institution and its lending to non-
performing enterprises has not been so pronounced. Exclusion from some activities, such as foreign
exchange business, has also limited losses within the bank (mis-matched foreign assets/liabilities have
been a major source of loss in BCM). It has also been receiving, since August 1993, management
support under a technical assistance program with the Genran Government. In effect, BPD has
developed a more commercial orientation in its banking business and has done so much earlier than
BCM.
105.      The two state banks will have to develop and implement viable solutions to medium term
issues. Experienced commercial bankers are currently assisting the banks to prepare strategic plans
which, buildiag upon short term measures already unplemented, will propose firther medium-term
options for achieving downsizing and eventual privatization. Initiation of the work on these plans was
a negotiations condition of the SERC. The appraisal mission was able to review the initial draft of
BCM's plan. The plan was found to be comprehensive, and covered, in a time bound action
program, issues such as, inter alia, reductions in staffmg levels, branch rationalization, improvement
in recovery on portfolio arrears, management strengthening. The compledon of the stregic plans
and the development of agreed acton plans for both of the state banks is a conditon of Second
Tranche release. Formal adoption of these plans by the owner of the banks (the Government) is
also a Second  ranche condiion.  Both plans will contain monitorable micro-performance
benchmarks. The agreed goals are downsizing fist and privatization in due course - and the plans
will help develop a set of blue prints to achieve these aims.
106.      A key to the success of the transitional arrangements relates to providing adequate
management support within BCM. The draft strategic plan identifies five areas for management
strengthening. Although these areas of support still have to be defined precisely and terms of
reference written, they are expected to cover, at a minimum, domestic banking operations,
international trade, internal audit, and credit procedures. Management support could be provided in
many ways. The most promising would be a twinning arrangement with another commercial bank
under which management fees were paid initially (possibly based, at least in part, upon the
performance of the bank), but with an option to buy into the bank - and thereby commence the
process of privatization - at some stage in the future. There does appear to be interest in such
arrangements from some Portuguese and South African banks: two such proposals have already been
provided to the management of BCM. These and other possibilities will need to be investigated
frther over the course of the SERC operation. As external management support is considered
crcikl to the success ofthefinancial reform progran, the in n of negotiations with apotenrt
twinning/management contract partner for BCM is a conditon of Second Tranche release.
Some domestic assets will have to be utilized to purchlas foreign assets to help match a mis-natched foreign position in the banL
Hence there will-be a reduction of domestic assets and an increase in foreign assets. Since BCM's lending activibes are fmanced thougb
its domesic resources, the bank's capacity to lend wiOl be reduced. Compiiance with the new pntdenial regations wig also constrn
I-.         



- 33 -
Management support for BPD) will continue to be provided by the two experienced GTZ supported
commercial bankers referred to earlier.
107.     Credit operations. There is a need to accelerate and strengthen the already visible trend
of increased lending to performiing, private sector enterprises. The entry of two new banks since
1992 will help in this respect. This process will be further assisted by central banking regulations on
exposures limits, and regulations which forbid banks from undertaking new lending to customers with
non-performng loans. In addton, BCM and BPD clients with large non-performing loans wiU be
eansferred to "collection onlyI status, as a conditdon of Second Tranche release.
108.     To help redress the heavy preponderance of the state banks in credit allocation, Banco de
Mogambique will implement a new system of bank-by-bank credit ceilings, which is designed to
increase the role of the private banks. An important element of this new system is to include "other
items net" within each individual bank's ceiling. This will cause the banks to focus on both of the
major elements of monetary expansion in the economy - credit and transitory accounts - and not
just credit. A new system of allocating bank credit ceilings was discussed and agreed with the
Government during an October 1993 mission of the IMF and IDA. This ceiling allocation mechanism
is based, inter alia, on mobilization of deposits, overdraft position with the central bank, and level
of "other items". This new system of allocatina credit ceilings also provides a strong incentive to
mobilize savings within the economy -- an incentive which has hitherto been largely absent. As a
condton of Second Tranche release Banco de Mocambique wiU introduce the new systen. of
allocatng credit ceilings.
109.     Increasing Banking Competidon. The Government's policy emphasizes entry of new
banks and growth of competition. The entry of Banco de Fomento e Exterior and Banco Portugtis
do Atl3ntico, as full service banks (m March and September 1993, respectively), is a first step in
achieving this goal. These banks are investigating the possibility of further involvement in a venture
capital company and a leasing company. In December 1993, Standard Bank (South Africa) opened
a representative office in Maputo - with the prospect of applying for a full license at some stage in
the near future. Equator Bank is also seeking permission to establish a branch in Mozambique, in
1994, and IFC is investigating the potential for establishing a leasing operation. The potential rapid
entry of several new banking institutions, which makes Mozambique somewhat different from other
countries in Africa, holds the promise that there will be a significant impact on the way that banking
business is conducted in the country.
110.     Competition in the provision of financial services can also come from the growth of non-
bank financial institutions. The development of insurance companies, pension and provident fumds,
credit unions, mortgage finance institutions, leasing companies, venture capital companies, money
markets, capital markets, and other institutions and mechanisms - will serve, over the years, to
greatly deepen the financial sector in Mozambique. Such institutions, and the financial services that
they provide, are likely to compete with the more traditional banking services that conunercial banks
provide, as well as providing a larger range of financial instruments to a broader clientele, than that
currently covered by the conmmercial banking system. Hence the development of an appropriate legal
framework for such activities, as well as their active encouragement within MozaTnbique will also
need to be pursued. Undertakings on this have been provided in the Letter of Development Policy.
111.     Creating a Level Playing Field Between the Commercial Banks. Unti recently, many
bankng actvities were only provided by BCM and customers were permitted to have a banking
relationship with only one bank. These restrincons bave been eased and banks now operate in all



- 34 -
areas in competition with BCM. This increasingly deregulated environment has dramatically altered
the way the state banks operate. Whereas both banks were largely fuiancing conduits for state owned
enterprises - around half of BCM's lending is now to private sector clients. The change within BPD
has been even more dramatic. The development of a level playing fielt , the movement away from
Govermnent directed lending, the increasing commercialization of existing insttutions, and the recen
entry of new private sector participants represent important policy shifts. The intention to continue
this deregulation process and develop a more competitive financial enviromnent is reflected in the
Letter of Development Policy.
Enterprise Sector Refonn
112.      Progress has also been real within the enterprise sector. Initial actions began in the late
eighties with the revitalization of key industrial activities. The process was given itnpetus with the
introduction of the privatization legislation in 1991 and the commencement of the privatization process
shordy thereafter. Key developments include:
'Price and distribution controls largely eliminated;
Regular tariff adjustment mechanisms in place for public utilities (electricity, petroleum
and telecommunications);
ca    Urgent rehabilitation carried out for key enterprises;
Law on privatization in place (1991) - and privatization program established with 263
small and medium scale enterprises and 9 large scale enterprises privatized to date;
<U    The Investment Act revised and an Investment Center established;
Trade reforms, including a rationalization and reduction in some tariffs in place;
MDifferential between the official and parallel exchange rates very much reduced;
c3p    Most direct subsidies phased out - including via commodity aid;
Qr    Review completed of largest bad borrowers in the banking system.
113.      The Government's objective is to create an enterprise sector which is increasingly
diversified, increasingly private owned, and operadng in a competitive business environment - so that
this sector can play its proper role in promoting overall growth, providing employment opportnities,
and generating foreign exchange. A specific objective of the SERC program, is to address the largest
problem enterprses which are exerting an adverse impact on macro-financial balances in the
economy, within the context of the privatization program. The SERC also seeks to make further
progress with de-control on the few remaming prices which remain controlled.
114.      Addresng Constraints to Enterprise Development. Despite the reforms that have
already taken place, the business enviromnent within Mozambique still presents obstacles to private
sector development. Constraints include regulations and laws for establishing a business, the tax and
duty system, a lack of qualified managers and workers, and poor infrastructure. The Government
has begun to tackle these problems. During 1994, the Government intends to conclude a review on
the replacement of the circulation and consumption tax by a single VAT system. As an interim
measure, it recently eliminated the consumption tax for industrial inputs and reduced import duties
for unprocessed food, raw materials and industrial iputs. Also, during 1994, to reduce unfair
competition from the smuggling of imports, the Government intends to enhance the effectiveness of
customs administration to make it less of a deterrent to official trade and, more fundamentally, review
the impact of tax policies which may be motivating this clandestine trade. The Government's program
for 1994 also includes a review, in collaboration with the private sector, of the impact of various



- 35 -
enterprise related reforms implemented to date and identification of any further actions which are
needed to improve the business enviromnent.
115.      Privatizatlon. An initial review of the thirty largest borrowers in the banking system
(representing 50 percent of all conunercial bank lending), indicates a very clear relationshp between
ownership and loan performance. All enterprises with performing loans (within this group), are
private companies -- whereas the sub-set of enterprises with non-performing loans is mostly state
owned (Table 5). Moving on the privadzation agenda is consequently an important ingredient in
assisting overall enterprise viability. It is particularly important to accelerate the privatization of the
large state owned enterprises - as this has lagged somewhat in the Government's overall privatization
program (nine large compaies compared to 263 small and medium scale enterprises). It is also
important that a mutually reinforcing link be developed between financial and enterprise reform.
Table 5: Ownership and Perfonm     of the Top Thirty Largest Banking System Cients
(1993 - Mt biion)
Performing Loans   Being Restnrud  Non-Pexfonm    Non-Perfozming as
of all Non-perfotming
Loans
SLae Owned        0               0                99.3              50.7
htrvened         16.8            10.1              7.3               3.7
Private          79.0            15.9              31.5              16.1
TOWa             95.8            26.0              138.1             70.5
116.      The preparation of SERC has involved a detailed review of the performance and prospects
for the fourteen largest, non-performing, state-owned enterprises. These fourteen enterprises fall into
the following categories: (a) eight are candidates for immediate privatization through UTRE - the
Government's privatization agency for large state owned enterprises; (b) three are being privatized
under separate arrangements - generally based upon arrangements with prior owners; and (c) three
are unlikely to be privatized in the immediate future.
117.      The Government is committed to privatizing the companies in the first two categories, and
has provided an undertaking in the Letter of Development Policy that all of these companies will be
privatized by the end of 1995. Hence, as a condWon of Third Tnche of the SERC credit (which
is expected by the middle of 1995), the Government wil have pet'atf least seven of the eleen
enterprses in these two categories. The remaining four enterprises are anticipaWd to be privatized
shortly thereafter. The eleven companies include important facets of Mozambique's industrial and
agro-processing base - Caju de Mocambique (cashew nuts), Emocha (tea), Boror (copra), Fabrica
de Cerveja 2M (beer), Fabrica de Cerveja de Beira (beer), Buzi Sugar Estates (sugar), Vidreira (glass
making), Cimentos de Mo%ambique (cement), Emplama (plastics), CETA (construction) and Sena
7  For the purposes of te SERC credt privatized refers to 'bringing to the point of sale - rather t  havig acally
cotncluded sale negotiations with a buyer.



- 36 -
Sugar Estates (sugar). The privatization of these eleven companies, in conjunction with the nine other
large companies already privatized (up to April 1994), will mean that around half of Mozambique's
industrial output will have been transferred from public to private sector hands. Equally importantly,
over half of the known bad banking system debt wiil have been dealt with as a result of the sale of
these enterprises. Although the privatization process is a negotiation between the (3overnment and
a potetial purchaser - to date, this has generally meant that the Government has bad to assume the
non-performing debt of the enterprises which have been privatized.
118.     The remainung three companies require closer and more substantive review and/or
differential treatment. These companies include L.A.M. - the national airlines, Agr;com - the
national agricultural marketing board, and CFM - the national railways. The status of all thr
companies is currendy under review by the Government. Progress has already been made with
respect to rationalizing the activities of LAM and establishing it on a more commercial footing. The
enterprise has rearranged aircraR leases, reduced its national fleet to two aircraft, revised flight
schedules, and repaid some of its banking system debt. The results of this on-going program will be
reviewed by the Government in the latter part of 1994 to ascertain whether firther steps are required.
The Government is, however, committed to converting the airline into a public company, downsizing
its operations, rationalizing its activity and even ceasing operation if these measures do not restore
the company to commercial viability. As a condition of Second Tanche release, Government will
reviw progress of she Action Pan to restore the financial soundness of LAM and provide the
results to IDA. With respect to Agricom, there is general agreement that there is no longer a role
for a national agricultual- marketing board. It is expected that the activities of Agricom will gradually
be wound up. Withi this context, as a condition of Second Trache release, the Government wil
provide IDA with a plan for sedling Agncom's debts to the banking system.
119.     CFM, the national railways, is a more difficult case. As one of the major targets for the
rebels during the 1980s, the railway track on the three main corridors leading to the sea, has been
continually disrupted. Consequently, the railroad has not been able to operate as a commercially
viable entity over much of the 1980s. However, as it was traditionally a major source of foreign
exchange receipts for Mozambique - as a conduit for imports and exports to and from the land locked
countries to the immediate west - the railways should once again provide an important source of hard
currency earnings now that peace has returned. Indeed, during 1993 (the first ful year of peace)
transport services and agricultural production were the two main sources of economic growth. The
Government, in conjunction with the bilateral donor community and IDA, is reviewing options for
the future of CFM - including the privatization of parts of its activity. Already three terwinals
belonging to CFM have been leased to private companies (including Mozambican/South Africanjoint
ventures). Meanwhile, bidding has commenced on a strategic study of options for the company, the
accounts of the company are being up-dated and audited, and the company is being converted from
a department of the Ministry of Transport into a truly independent corporation. As a condbion for
17drd Thanche rekase, CFM wll complete key steps in *s resnicring progrm inclding the
inion of its strategic st*, fnish binging its accounts up to date, conversion into a pubiFc
company, and agree debt work out arangement with te commerci banks.
120.     All of the above enterprises represent politically more "difficult" choices for the
Government. Some time will be required to develop a social and political consensus on their future -
- parficularly during the 1994 election year. Nonetheless, they represent the next generation of large,
politcally more problematic, state owned enterprises, which the proposed SERC seeks to address as
one step in the enterprise sector's long term reform agenda.



37 -
121.     The SERC program supports the overall on-going privatization program. Currently,
UTRE has a pipeline of forty five, large, state owned enterprises which are at various stages of
privatization. This listing includes the eight companies in category (a) above. It is the Govermnent's
intention to have fully privatized these 45 companies by the end of 1996. A schedule for their
privatization is given in the form of a PERT chart on the folowing page. This chatt is reproduced
from the Letter of Development Policy in which the Government commits itself to the timetable
provided in Chart 1. This represents an ambitious program, possibly one of the most far reaching
privatization programs in all of Sub-Saharan Africa. Should this programn proceed on schedule, then
the majority of industrial output will emanate from private sector enterprises by the second half of
the 1990s - a not inconsequential achievement in an economy which, in early 1987, was completely
state domiated. Although Mozambique's immediate future remains somewhat uncertain as a
consequence of political developments both in Mozambique itself and in neighboring South Africa -
there is real interest from potendal foreign investors - especially from South African and Portuguese
firms.
122.     Price Co Itrols. Prior to 1987 many prices were controlled in Mozambique. Since then,
significant progress has been achieved in liberalizing most markets and decontrolling prices. During
the second half of 1993, formal price controls were abolished on an additional 22 goods -in line with
agreements reached under the Policy Framework Paper. Administered consmer prices are now
limited to two basic goods - wheat flour and bread - which account for about 1 percent of output.
Wheat, whdch is not produced locally, is imported under donor food aid programs, and therefore the
Government is required to establish prices for re-sale. In addition, the Govermnent continues to
regulate uility prices and petroleum prices - as these products are produced or imported by monopoly
enterprises. However, these prices are adjusted periodically to reflect domestic and import costs as
agreed under covenants of IDA projects.
123.     The Govermnent does, however, require that manucturers of eight good, which are
produced by single domestic suppliers to report, expost, price increases to the Commission of Prices.
Tlhese are called conditionedpnces and cover beer, tea, matches, batteries, cement, tires, pesticides,
mineral coal. As the prices of competing imports, which are generally of higher qualiy, provide
effective regulation of the domestic prices of these commodities, there is little rationale to continue
with this system of conditioned prices. Hence, as a condiion of Second Tranche, the ystem of
conditoned pries wi no longer 4p*  to the eight goods which are covered at present.



- 38 -
CHART I                      UITRE ACTION PLAN FOR 1994/1996
1994          1995               1996
1lst    2nd       Ist      2nd       1st     2nd
t   DIMAC               MCA      Dec-93         _
2 Prosul              MCA      Dec-93 
3   Hidromoc            MCA      Dec-93
4   Mocargo             MICOM   Dec-94
5   Fnigo               MA       Dec-92 ._    
6   Pescom EE           SEP      Dec-93
7   Cogropa             MICOM   Dec-93
8   Foriadora           MIE      Dec-92
9   Itloma              MA       Dec^92_
10  Cometal             MIE      Dec-92
1 t Empiams             MIE      Dec^92*
12  Fasol               MIE  P ec^93_
13  Saborel             MIE      Dec-93
14  Citrinos Manica     MA       Dec-93
15  Steia               MCA      Dec-93_ 
16  TTA                 MTC      Dec^94 |
17  ENCATEX             MICOM   Dec-93
IS  MOBEIRA             MIE      Dec-94.... : 
19  Agro Alfa           MIE      Dec-93
20  Camoc               MTC      Dec^94 _I
21  Metecna             MIE      Dec-94
22  Geralco             MIE      Dec^94                  .-
23  Est. Navais Beira   SEP      Dec-94
24  Equipesca           SEP      Dec-94
25  C. R. Umpopo        MA       Dec-94
26  Imbec               MICOM   Dec-94_                                    _
27  E N Tunsmo          MICOM   Dec-94
28  EMARNA              MTC      Dec-94          -:7
29  Hidraulica Maputo    MA      Dec-94
30  Geomoc              MCA      Dec-94
31  Gemas Podras Lap.   MRM      Dec-94
32  Anfrena             MTC      Dec-94
33  Navinter            MTC      Dec-94  
34  Caju de Mocambique  MA       Dec-92
.35  CETA               MCA      Dec-03 I 
36  Emocha EE           MA       Dec-93
37  Botor SARL          MA       Dec-93
38  Fabrica Cerveja 2M    MIE    Dec-93 .  _
39  Fabrica Cerveja Beira  MIE   Dec-93
40  Soveste             MIE      Dec-93     y
41  Cimentos de Moc.    MCA      Dec-93
42  CIM                 MIE      Dec-93   
43  NAVIQUE             MTC      Dec-94   g _          -     .......... 
44  CARBOMOC            MRM      Dec-94
45  MARMONTE            MRM      Dec-94
OPR (Company Dossier)
Pre-QualfflcationfTender
Negotiation



- 39-
C.       Description of the Credit
124.     Borrower and Credit Amount. An amount equal to US$200 million is proposed for the
Second Economic Recovery Credit. This large credit is required to bridge the Government over the
difficult transition period of elections, resettlement, and de-mobilization -- by providing about 20
percent of funding requirements over 1994-96. The size of the credit was increased by US$20 million
(after 7t had been negotiated), at the request of the Government, after Cyclone Nadia struck Nampula
Province in March 1994 causing substantial destruction to food crops, infrastructure, and the cashew
nut trees which are the economic mainstay of the region and the country's second most important
export. The SERC will be supported by other donors in the form of cofincing and parallel
financing. Potential co-financiers include Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and Denmark. The
Borrower would be the Govermnent of Mozambique.
125.     Tranching. The proposed credit would be disbursed in three tranches - US$80 million
initially followed by two equal tranches of US$60 million in a second and third tranche. Conditions
for tranche release are indicated below. The first tranche would be available upon credit
effectiveness. The second and third tranches would be released with intervals about six to eight
months apart. Tranche release would be contingent upon satisfactory implementation of the overall
program, in addition to the specific conditions listed below. The Credit would finance 100 percent
of the c.i.f. costs of eligible imports. The closing date of the credit would be August 30, 1997.
126.     Disbursement and Procurement. Procurement procedures have been designed to permit
rapid use of the funds from the credit while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process.
Inports by the Government and the private sector would follow simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures for contracts exceeding US$1.0 million. Standard bidding documents for
petroleum imports have been reviewed and agreed between the Government and IDA. Procurement
procedures have been agreed by Mozambique's Joint Evaluation Team consisting of donors. These
procedures are (i) Limited International Bidding (LIB) between US$0.25 million and US$1.0 million,
and (ii) international shopping below US$0.25 million. Imports with individual contract values of less
than US$5,000 will be excluded from financing under this credit. Private sector purchases would
follow established commercial practices, which include competitive bidding for items from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries, other than proprietary spares. Financing of petroleum products
and food products would be limited to 20 percent each of the total credit proceeds. Direct contracting
(single source purchase) could be used for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing
equipment would call for standardized equipment and spare parts. Pre-shipment inspection of (a)
price (except for simplified ICB), (b) quality and (c) quantity - as well as relevant import
documentation - is being carried out by an Independent Inspection Agency (SGS). These procedures
would also apply to retroactive financing.
127.     To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established in a commercial
institution acceptable to IDA. At credit effectiveness, an initial deposit of up to a total of US$30
miflion will be placed into the Special Account. The account will be replenished regularly, based
upon supporting documentation supplied to IDA including withdrawal applications and replenishments
under the Special Account. Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
for all expenditures costing US$1.0 million or less. Expenditures of more than US$1.0 million would
be fully documented. Banco de Moqaznbique, which has the responsibility of maintaining Credit
Accounts and submitting withdrawal applications, will indicate on the statements of expenditure the
nature and origin of the goods, as well as the payable date, and will mainain all relevant supporting
documentation for review by supervisory missions. The special commitment procedure wiUl be used



-40 -
for-selected letters of credit over US$1.0 million in order to avoid a possible shortage of cash in the
Special Account.
128.      Progrm Management, Monitoring and Accounts. The Ministry of Finance and Banco
de Moaambique will have responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the reform program.
In addition, furter management and monitoring support will be provided by technical advisors
recruited through the Financial Sector Capacity Building (FS CB) Credit and also by supplementauy
technical assistance provided by the donor cormmunity. Frequent contacts with the authorities by
resident mission staff and supervision missions will be required to facilitate monitoring of progress
under the program. BM will maintain records of all transactions under the Credit, using sound
accounting practices. Audits of all accounts, completed by auditors acceptable to IDA and according
to procedures agreed with IDA, will be submitted no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal
year of the Govenmnent of Mozambique.
129.      Key Actions that were undertaken by Negotiations. By the time of the negotiations of
the SERC important steps had already been taken by the Government in support of refonn in areas
of monetary policy, fiscal policy and witi respect to financial and enterprise sector reform. The
following are some of the most importat:
Management of Public Expenditures and External Aid
(a)    budgetary allocations on goods and services for education and health have been
maintained in real terms in the 1994 budget;
(b)   subsidies to State Owned Enterprises, through the ri Ltional budget, have been maintained
below 1 percent of GDP in the 1994 budget;
(c)    a rolling three year investment budget has been introduced;
(d)   the Govenunent is currently reviewing the feasibility of introducing a value added tax
(VAT) system. Interim changes in the existing tax system were introduced in the 1994
budget.
Monetary Policy and Strngthing the Cenral Bank
(e)    Separate legislation has been developed for BM and BCM - and the institutions have
been split;
(f)    BM has been strengthened by the appointment of:
(i)     a technical expert to strengthen the foreign exchange departments; and a
payment's advisor to work with BM with a view to reducing the level of
transitory accounts in the banking system - and streamlining the overall
payment's system.
(ii)     an advisor to assist in strengthen the Banking Supervision Department;
appointment of eight local technical staff to work in the bankdig
supervision department; and four experienced bank supervisors to work
with staff from the department to complete a credit review of the loan



-41 -
portfolios of the commercial banks;
(g)   BM has produced and disseminated regulations on "Provisioning Policy", "Capital
Adequacy', and "Loan Limits to a Single Customer or Group of Related Customers";
Financl Sector Refonn
(h)    work has commenced on Strategic Plans for BCM and BPD - and a first draft of BCM's
plan has been completed and reviewed by IMA;
(i)   the accounting separation of BM and BCM has been finalized. BCM has intduced tight
new credit policies and commenced a serious collection program from defaulting
bofrowers;
(j)   agreement has been reached between the IMF, IIDA and Banco de Mopambique on a new
mechanism for allocating credit ceilings.
Sector Reform
(k)    Government has demonstrated its commitment to privatization - with the introduction of
legislation in 1991 permitting divestture of public enterprises and the subsequent
privatization of 263 small and medium scale enterprises and nine large enterprises by
early 1994.
(1)    a comprehensive review has been undertaken of the largest borrowers in the bankdng
system.  Of the fourteen largest, non-performing, state owned enterprises, the
Govermnent has agreed to accelerate privatization of eleven enterprises and to prepare
plns for the other three which witl deal with their banking system debt [negotiationsJ.
(im)   Govermment has agreed to a timetable for the privatization of forty five large enterprises
through UTRE by the end of 1996 - see Chart 1.
130.     Monltorable Action   Future tranche release will depend upon contied sadsfactory
progress in implementing the reform program oulined in the attached policy matrix. The following
are the proposed core conditions for second, and third tranche release - and are in addition to
satisfactory progress on the overall macroeconomic program.
131.     Condiions of Second Tranche. In addition to mantaining a satisfactory macroeconomic
policy framework:
-of Public Ee         and Extra Aid
Subsidies to State Owned Enterprises, through the national budget, will be mained at
below 1 percent of GDP in the 1995 budget.
Monetary Policy and            the Central Bank
the central bank will further develop its discount policy to provide emergency liquidity
support to the commercW banks;



-42 -
complete a satisfactory fial draft Forein Exchange Act and submit it to Parliant;
complete the first bank examtloan portfolio classification of the five domestic commercial
banks;
provide audited 1993 Banco de Mogambique fmancial statements to IDA.
Financial Sector Reform
Strategic Plans in the two state owned banks completed and agee Action Plans adopted.
Formal adoption of the plans by the owner of the baniks;
Clients of the state owned banks with large non-performing loans to be twansferred to
'collection only" units within the bank;
Banco de Mopambique to introduce a new system of allocatig bank-by-bank credit
ceilings to the banis - satisfactory to IDA;
BCM management to have initiated negotiations with a potential twning/management
contract partner;
Enterpise Sector Reform
Government to review progress of action plan to restore the financial soundness of LAM
(national airlines) and provide results to IDA. Government to also provide IDA with a
plan for setding Agricom's debts to the bankdng system;
Conditioned prices removed for the eight goods currently covered by this expost review
mechanism (beer, tea, matches, batteries, cement, tires, pesticides, and mineral coal).
132.     Condifons of Third Trache Relee.  In addition to maianng a satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework:
Monetay Policy and  S          the Central Bank
launch a pilot Treasury Bil auction;
submk draft Foreign Exchange Reguaions to IDA;
Enterrise Sector Reform
Government will privatize (take to the point of sale) seven of the following, large, non-
performing, banking system clients: Caju de Mogambique, Emocha, Boror, Fabrica
Cerveja 2M, Fabrica de Cerveja de Beira, Buzi Sugar Estates, Vidreira, Cimemos de
Mogabique, Emplama, CETA, and Sena Sugar Estates;
CFM (the national railways) to complete key steps in its retucuing program including:
initiating its Strategic Study, bringn its accounts up to date, completng its conversion
to a public company, and reaching an agreement on a debt work out with the commercial



- 43 -
banks.
1).       Belendits and Risks
133.     The proposed Second Economic Recovery Credit responds directly to the Government of
Mozambique's central refom objectives: creating and strengthening the institutional framework for
a market economy and providing the authorities with the tools of macroeconomic policy. The reform
process has been underway for almost seven years. Progress has been steady, if somewhat slow.
Notably, recent legislative changes have provided a firm legal basis for the development of the
financial sector - and the splitting of Banco de Mopambique will now permit it to develop as a
properly functioning and independent central bank. The framework for a competitive, market-oriented
financial system is being put in place with the private sector, for the first time since independence,
participating on a level playing field with public sector institutions. These moves should help inprove
resource allocation as well as enable Government to better judge the cost effectiveness of subsidies.
Increased competition will help improve the quality of banking services and lower the costs of
financial intermediation. Inproved services and the development of a supervisory capability at BM,
in combination with greater macroeconomic stability and positive real interest rates, will also help to
build public confidence and, over time, bring more financial savings into the formal financial system.
Increasing banking sector autonomy should improve the efficiency of bank operations and permit them
to grant credit to those enterprises most able to contribute to economic growth.
134.     An ambitious program such as this carries inevitable risks. First, the downsizing and
changing functions of the public sector banks will run against inertia, vested interests and - still -
some ideological resistance. It will take the resolve and persistence of the more forward looking
segments of Government, most prominently within the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, to
carry through the program, to open the sector to newcomers, including foreign institutions, and permit
banks to operate independently and commercially. This will have inevitable implications, including
the closure of unprofitable rural branches and denial of credit to unviable, but often powerfid,
enterprises - a difficult politcal test on both counts. Lending autonomy for the state banks, while
they still remain in the public sector, will be particularly important as quasi-fiscal activities are made
transparent and moved to the budget - which, in turn, will be constrained. Second, functioning banks
will require a bankable client base. Hence, the pace of restructuring, privatization and liberalization
of the industrial, service, and agricultural sectors, and private sector reform response to those
reforms, will be critical - but it is necessarily uncertain. The Govermnent commitment to the
program under the proposed credit, accompanying technical assistance from IDA and, very
importanty, the continuing support of other donors, gives confidence that obstacles will be overceme.
The pace of reform, however, will be gradual, as in the past, and the dual process of stabilization and
structural reform wil not be complete by the end of this operation, even if it is successfilly executed.
Follow up adjustment operations are therefore anticipated for FY1996 and 1998.
135.     Obviously, the success of this program will also depend on the movement toward ful
peace and democratization in Mozambique. Should there be a disruption in the peace process, this
will seriously impact the capacity of the World Bank and other donors to affect significant change.
Should there be serious problems in this regard, then it is likely that tranche release will be delayed
until such thne as the peace process is back on track



-44 -
IV.       RECOMMEDATION
136.     1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association. I recornnend that the Executive Directors approve the IDA credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1994
Attachments



ANNEXES



-46-
REPOBLICA DE MO(AMBIQUF
MINISTRIO DAS FINANgAS
BINmTI! DO MINISTRO
Apr 6, 1994
REP. S761JGMMF94
Lwi T. Preston, Preident
The. World Bank,
1818 E Street, N.W.,
W-.hngton, D.C., 24033
UNMED SIATES OF AMERCA
Dan Mr. Prston,
RE SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREW LEITER
OF DEVELOPNT POUCY
1.   le purps  of ths lettw is to ifm you of th  pros  made
is           tite adustment progm  outined in the 1994-96
Polc  Frmework Pa   oad to idcate additin   measu    which
we will take to segte  te  ajustment progm. Te Government
reqet  from    e  n       ional  Developent  Association  (MDA)
nideration   of a Second Economic Recvey Credit (SERC), of
US$200 mDhon, to  uppont the next phase of our Eonomic and
social            Program (PSP). This letter and atach  pohcy
matix outin  th  objees of the prgrm  and the fiamework
withi which refrms have bee  formulated.
2.   The  Government of. Mozamique seeb to sengt    the ESMP,
at ts  ccial  juncue  in   our  poli t a d lcon
developme, to achieve    tined  higher economic gowth and to
hep move further forward on alleviating poverty.  In 1987, we
embard upon a seven year pedoo  of economi           iation and
spificantprgress has bee  made with repct to economc polcy.



-47-
Prices have been deregulated and trade has been liberalize4, a market based foreign
exchange allocation mechanism has been established, and significant progress has been
made with respect to the privazation of stat owned enterprises, substantia budgetary
reforms have been implemented, and reform in the enterprise and finanal sectors has
commenced.
3.    However, up to 1992, the response to refom  measures taken was linited as
Mozambique remained engulfed in a devastating war. This situation changed
2rauatically in October 1992, with the signiAg of the Peace Treaty. At that point, the
prospect of susainable gtowth, benefitting aU our people, became a reality for the first
time. Displaced persons began to return to their traditional farm lands and rail traffic
moved through our country to our ports without fear of attack. Economic growth
increased to positive real per capita levels again, for the first time this decade (5.6
percent real growth in 1993). The fruits of our long years of policy refbrm are at last
within our grasp. What now remains important is to sustain the positive supply
response and the growth that we have already witnessed since October 1992. The
program for which we are seeking the support of the Second Economic Recovery Credit
has been designed to achieve this goal over a difficult transition period as we face our
first multi-party democratic elections, the demobilization of a lrtge number of soldiers,
and the re-setement of millions of refugees and displaced persons. IDA support in
helping us sustain the economic recovery now underway, will be vital in the difficult
challenges which lie ahead.
4.    In March 1994, however, the province of Nampula was hit by Cyclone Nadia. The
impact of the cyclone on the economy of this importan province was particularly
devastating. It is estimated, in this cashew mnt producing province, that up to 85
percent of the cashew nut trees were up-rooted. Most food crops were wiped out and
much of the infrastructure in the province has been destroyed. The extent of the
damage has not yet been fully assessed but is expected to run into tens of millions of
dollars. Although appeals have been made to the international donor community to
assist with reconstruction this natural disaster will mean that the Goverment will need
to increase expenditures to provide assistance to this region. Hence, although the
economy is poised to take advantage of peace and redevelopment, the impact of natural
disasters, such as this one, wil continue to place a considerable strain upon our ability
to manage the transition period.
Background
5.    In the early 1980s the Mozambique economy experienced a marked and sustained
decline in output, increasing economic distortions and financil imbalances - largely
arising from widespread insecurity in rural areas and the application of inappropriate
economic policies. In the decade to 1986, overall production fell about 30 percent,
exports declined by 75 percent and imports by 30 percent. Extena imblances,
aggrvated by an incsingly overvalued exchange rate, led to substal aears in
exermal debt serice. Domestically, large fiscal deficits and unconstrained bank
financing of enterprise losses led tD a tripling of the money stock - within the context
of shrinkingoutput. Centralized control of prices and distribution further hindered the
efficient allocation of resources, leading to shortages, inflaion and a widespread
movement to barter and parallel market acdvities for goods and foreign exchange. By
1986 it was clear that economic policy reforms had to be implemented if there was to



-48 -
be a tun around from the deteriorating conditions which characterized that period.
6.    Consequendy, in 1987, the Mozabique Government launched the ESRP - a
comprehensive reform program aimed at restoring a minimum level of per capita
consumpton, correctng major price distortions throughout the economy so as to lay
the foundation for sustaable growth, and re-establishing orderly financial relationships
witb trading partners and creditors. Since its introduction, our Government has
remained strongly committed to the ESRP framework. Major accomplishmens over
ts period include: a major real devaluation of the exchange rate such ta it is
currondy at market rates; substanial mcreases in agricultural commodity prices,
implemenin of major tax refoms; near eliminaion of monetary fiancing of the
budget; improvements in the cormposition of public investment; significan progress in
eliminat  state enterprise subsidies; and privaization of 263 small and medium scale
enterprises and nine large enterprises.
Objectves of Futher Economic Reform
7.    The Government now intends to promote more rapid economic recovery and
development by ensuring that fiuther advances are made with respect to macroeconomic
stability and in nafrowing the large extenal and interna balances in the economy. This
wi be achieved throug condnued efforts to ensure fiscal control, while enhancing our
capacity to conduct appropriate macro-monetary policies through our central bank
(Banco de Mocambique). It will be necessary for us to maintain social sector
expendures over the transition period, while ensuring dta other budgetary decisions
are made within the conte  of an integrated sectoral approach rather than through an
ad hoc project approach which has characterized support in some important sectors.
in addition, we feel that it is important to move to the next stage of inter-linked
fnmancial and enteprise sector reform. Privatizaton of large state enterpnses was
commenced under the Economic Recovery Credit, but this process now needs to be
reinorced and accelerated. In addition, it will be important to ensure that financial
mehanisms are in place to service the needs of the growing private sector.
8.    Ihe next stage of our reform program aims to take advantage of the new era of peace
to create an eviroment conducive to the rapid recovery of productive actvites
throghout the country and to ensure that all of our cizens share in the benefits of
economic growth. To this end, Mozambique's structural adjustment program is now
focussing on actions in four broad areas.
*     Macroeconomic Management and Budgetary Policy. Continuing sound
mac-economic management and measures to improve fiscal policy. It is
particiuarly necessary to deal with a multiplicity of donor aid programs,
develop coherent sectoral strategies, and ensure that our priorities are
implemented - within the manpower constaints which we face and while
ensig that expenditures on social sector activities are adequately supported.
*      lMonetary Policy and Streng     the Central Bank  St         the
central bank to enable it to play its proper role in administi    monetary
policy, developing tools of indirect monetary policy management, and fering
the development of a sound and efficient banking system through effective
region and supervision. To this end we have been working closely with



-49 -
both the Ite ional Monetary Fund and IDA to develop approiae
macroeconomic instruments and policies.
*     Restructuring of the Financial Sector. Restrucuig the state owned banks
(whose lending policies have been an Important source of monetary expansion -
- with an adverse Impact on macroeconomic stability), while seeking to uPgrade
the quality of banking services in the state banks and encouraging the entry of
new private sector banks. A proper legal and regulatory fiamework is now in
place and two new foreign banks commenced operations in 1993. It is our
wish to develop a commercily strong, prudently managed, and competitive
banking sector - operating without Government inrference.
*     Enterpise Setor Reform. Takig the next stes in enterpise reform,
paricularly the elimination of implicit subsidies to large, predominantly state-
owned enterprises; the continued privatization (or liquidation) of these
enterprises; the establishment of concrete action plans to restore the financial
soundness of large public monopolies, including the railways, that are expected
to remain in the public sector for the present; and the removal of constraints
that are adversely affeting the performance of the enterprise sector and
discouraging foreign investors.
9.    Achieving progress in all of these priority reform areas is considered crucial.
Macroeconomic stability will remain elusive unless existing monetary and finaial
leakages within the economy are brought under control. Moreover, rea enterprise
reform has reached a stage in the adjustment process where it is vital to ensure that
avalable financial resources can flow to the highest return activities and that adequate
financial services are available to support the resurgence of productive acvities
throughout the country. 'Mere is a need therefore to address, at the same time,
macroecnomic instability and monetary leakages, enterprise reform, and the banking
system. Central to this process, while simultaneously moving aggressively on the
privatzation and commercialization of the largest state enterprises, are our plans to
foster the development of a diversified and predominantly privately owned banking
Sysem
10.   Ihe implementation of the SERC program will need continued balance of payment
support from the donor commuity to accommodate substantial projected current
account deficits. Contiued imbalance in the exal accounts will persist for some
years as we restore productive capacity and expott capability. Nevertheless, the signg
of the peace accord has considerably enhanced the prospects for faster growth in output
and exports, paticularly in activities such as agricultue, energy, transport services, and
tourism in which Mozambique has enjoyed a comparative advantage in the past. We
anticipate that this will result in a gradual reduction in debt service ratios and
dependence upon external aid.
11.   The Government will continue to exercise tight monetary and fiscal policy, consistent
with the reduction of iation and the strengthening of both the internal and exeal
accounts. The principal macroeconomic targets for 1995-96 are: (I) a GDP growth at
an average annual rate of 6 percent; (ii) a reduction in the fiscal deficit before gran1s
reative to GDP; and (dii) a reduction in the extn  current account deficit befre
grants relative to GDP. Progress towards a viable balance of payments will remain a



-so-
key policy objective. To this end, the Goverment is committed to pursuing Consistent
financial policies, maintaining a market-related exchange rate, and pursuing a prudent
exr  borrowing policy.
Ma iocomlc Mageeme  and Budgeta  Policy
12.   Over the transition period to peace and democracy in Moique, the demands upon
the budget wil increse significandy. Addition  r  will be required to wver
the cost of demobilization, the resettlement of displaced persons and refogees, and the
elections. We must also commence the task of reconctng the basic irastructe
of our nation - rehabilitating health and education facilities, rebuilding roads, and
deveoping other fom   of  pporting    astrucre.  The international door
community has been particularly supportive of Mozambique and has contributed In a
major way to meeting these extra-ordary costs. Nonetheless, there will be may
competng demands for Governmt finace and priorities will need to be established.
13.   Prioritization of Development Expends. To assist the Govenmet develop
expenditure priorities we ine   to prepare ingratd investment and reurent
ewendiure progms in three key sectors - health, education and agriculture. With
pece, our Government can now manage Mozambique as a complete entity.
Humanitaan assistance and stand alone development projec will consequenty become
less important in the future. In the place of fragmented and relief based activities, the
Govermnent iidends to develop itegrated sectoral based programs. We intend to
commence with the above thre key aa as i i in these sectors where fragmented
project based activities are most evident. These sector strategies will then be
incorporated into the recrrent budget and the rolling thre-year investment plan -
which i tumwii be supported by the donor community. As partof this work, we
intend to develop a foil ilventory of projects and recuret and investment expendiures
-undertaken by the Government, donors and the Non-Government OS
(NGOs) - in these same three sectors, with an indication of the priority of the vaious
projects. The development of stategies and a compendium of existing projects, which
will be completed by the end of 1994, will assist us to prioritize activities within these
three key sectors, while ensuring that adequate budgetary resources are available to
support both the recurrent and investment requirements of these activities. Donors will
then be more easily able to match their suppott in these sectors with Govenment
priorities.
14.   Soial Sector Expenditures. Significant progress was made under the Economic
Recovry Credit in revesig previous declines in social sector expenditures. Positive
ea growth was achieved in expenditure in both health and education activities in 1992
and 1993. Further real icreases in socid sector expendi     would certaly be highly
desirable. However, as our Goverment moves through this difficult transition period,
there will be many competing claims on budgetay resources - as indicated above -
which may well make it difficult to achieve connued real increases over the nex two
years. Nonetheless, we are anxious that the gins that have already been made, should
not be lost over the taition. Iherefore, we will at kast maintain budgetary
allocations on goods and services for education and health, in real terms, in the 1994
and 1995 budgets, at their 1993 budgeted level.
15.   Taxao.  During 1994, the Govermment hens to conclude a study on the



- 51 -'                  
replacement of the circulation and consumption tax widt a sWle VAT system.
Thereafter, depending upon the outcome of the study, a suitable acdon plan and
tmetable, will be developed.
16.   Price Controls. The Government remain committed to price liberalization. The
prices of 22 products were freed in August 1993. Adminised consumer prices are
now limited to two basic food suffs (wheat flour and bread), ret, fuel, utilities,
newspapers, and certain hotel tariffs and transportation fares. The conditioned price
system still applies to eight goods (beer, tea, matches, batteries, cement, fires,
pesticides, and mineral coal), produced by single suppliers. This system involves the
report  of price increases ex post to the Prices Commision. Price Increases of these
eight goods will no longer be subject to review by the Commission afr December
1994. The Government will continue liberalizing prices and will reguarly adjust
rmain  administered prices to reflect domesdc and import costs.
17. Hard Budget Constraint on State Owned Enterprises. With the commercialization
of the banking sector, and the cessation of credit availability to non-performing state
owned enterprises (see para 36), we consider it important that the provision for
financing of state enterise losses through the State Budget should be subject to a strict
lmit. Hence, budgetary subsidies to the state owned enterprise sector will be
maintained below I percent of GDP in the 1995 budget and thereafter.
Monetay FPok  and Strengthening the Central Bank
18.   Considerable progress has been made over the past two years with respect to
er:'.blishing Banco de Mogambique as a proper central baking eniy.  In late
1I 91Iearly 1992, separate legisaon was passed establishing Banco de Moambique as
a separated instion from  its commercial banking am  (Banco Comercial de
Mogambique). 'Te organizations were split over the course of 1992 and their acouns
were separated. Physical separation will take place by October 1994, at the latest, with
the movement of the BCM staff to a new headqarters building in Maputo. bt is now
crucial that Banco de Mogambique should be strengthened in its key centra banking
functions of conductng monetary policy, supervising the banking system, and
the system of foreign exchange.
19.   Monetay and finmcial sector reform is considered critical to attaining macro-economic
stability and sWporting strucural adjustment in the real economy. Despite good
progress with respect to fiscal policy, and increasingly tighter credit ceilings being
imposed upon the commercial banks, inflation has remained higher than anticipated and
macroeconomic stability has remined elusive. Leakages through the bankiWg system
to the enterprise sector have accounted for much of the monetary expansion which has
contiued to take place. Developing central control and supervision by the central
bank, and developing better tools of monetary policy are therefore importat in
attaiting macro stability.
20.   St      in  Monetary Policy Capabilities. Under our refom program, interest
rates have been progressively deregulated such that currently only a maximum lending
rate and a twelve month deposit rate are se. by the central ba    Interest rates are now
also positive in real terms although this has been achieved through high nominal interest
rates. It is our Gov enet's objecive to liberalize interest rates furither as soon as



-52 -
money markets and indirect monetary policy instruments can be developed, and as soon
as inflation can be reduced further. We feel that full interest rate liberalization should
come at a later stage of our adjustment program. We are also conscious that interest
rate policy, and other related policies, should seek to change the base of our deposits
from almost exclusively demand deposits to more time based deposits. This process has
already been assisted, in part, by the entry of two new banks which are seeking to
attract depositors by offering higher rates of interest on their savings. We intend to
monitor interest rate developments to ensure that they remain competitive and market
driven, while ensuring that lending rates remain positive in real terms over the longer
run. Meanwhile, we intend to investigate actions which will fiuther alter the structure
of the commercial bank's deposit base to ensure that it wfll gradually become of longer
term and more stable.
21.   Banco de Mooambique has a policy in place for the provision of very short term,
emergency liquidity support to the banking sector. In addition, we intend to introduce
a system of discountable instruments to provide liquidity to the banking system to
accommodate seasonal demands on credit. These two mechaniss wilU provide liquidity
support to all banks on the same basis. Together with the commercial banks, the
centrl bank will develop re-discountable financial instruments. Our policy will be
developed in such a way as to encourage the banks to go to the market to mobilize
funds in the flrst instance - thereby assisting in overall deposit mobilization within the
economy. These refinements in our discount policy wiUl be developed over the course
of 1994 and will become operational from the first day of 1995.
22.   We place a strong emphasis on domestic savings mobilization to help progressively
reduce our heavy dependence on foreign savings and to permit declining levels of
extenal assistance over the medium term. Under the SERC program we will aim to
expand domestic savings by (a) refining the discount rate policy to encourage banks to
go to the narket rather than coming to the central bank as a source of liquidity, (b)
determining bank by bank credit ceilings in the banking system based mainly upon
deposit mobilization - and most important}y, time deposit mobilization, (c) encouraging
bankdng sector competition, (d) supporting the growth of the contractual savings
instiutions such as insuraee companies and pension and provident funds, and (e)
disallowing access to central bank overdraft facilities by the commercial banks. In
addition, as we gradually move towards a more liberalized and deregulated economic
environment, with increasingly less financial repression, funds currfeny held outside
the formal financial system should be attracted back into our banks. The development
of less formal financial institutions, such as credit unions, is also an important objective
of the Government's policy in mobilizing savings.
23.   We wil commence the development of a Treasury Bill market. We consider such a
market important for several reasons. It will securitize the Government debt and more
appropriately price this type of borrowing. It will also provide the commercial banks
with an altemative interest bearing financial instrument in which they can invest and
earn a reasonable rate of return; it will also help in the development of money and
capital markets in Mozambique. Although we envisage the growth of the Treasury Bil
market as an important component of our overall adjustment program, we recognize
that its growth, at least initially, may well be limited. By the middle of 1995, a pilot
Treasury Bill market will have been launched. Development of the T-Bil market
beyond this pilot stage during this time frame will depend upon overall developments



53 -
within the financial markets, and progress on achieving macro-economic stability.
24.   It is also important for our central bank to strengthen its data collection and policy
analysis and formulation capabilities. To this end, the researc department of Banco
de MoGambique has recendy produced a quarterly statistical bulletin for dissemination
to the general public. It Is intended that this bulletin will be produced on a reglar
quarterly basis - with four issues being produced in 1994. We will endeavor to
improve the quality of the data in the bulletin, and to gradually dissemniiate more
sophisticated analysis through this report. We recognize the importance of good data
and good information as the basis for good policies, and want to ensure that our
economic data base improves over time. To assist the bank in developing its analytical
and policy making capabilites, it intends to recruit, during 1994, an experienced
monetary policy advisor, to work within the research department.
25. Banking Supervision and Regulation. Given the increasingly deregulated nature of
banking in Mozambique, and the entry of new foreign banking institutions, we consider
it crucially important to develop a strong supervisory capacity in Banco de
Mocambique.- A department was created in 1992 and it currently has eight staff. To
assist the development of this department we have contracted an experienced bank
supervisor from Banco de Portugal to work with the staff of the department for an
initial six month period. To provide hands on training experience to our staff, we have
also contracted a consulting firm to work with the staff for a six month period, to
undertake a loan portfolio review of the five banks currently operating in Mozambique-
This task will help us to achieve the twin objectives of providing relevant training to
staff in a new area - while simultaneously undertaking the first comprehensive,
independent review of the loan portfolios of the banks which will be completed by the
end of 1994.
26.   The bank supervision department has also designed a regulatory framework for the
operation of the banking sector. Regulations pertg to bank licensing, provisioning
policy, capital adequacy, and loan exposures were issued in the first quarter of 1994,
and these will form the basis for future supervision of the banking system. To assist
the banks meet the internatonally accepted norms which are reflected in the new
banking regulations, a transition phase of two years has been provided - after which
all banks licensed in Mozambique would be expected to meet the requirements of the
Banking Act and the supporting regulations.
27.   While the above measures will help us to develop an on-site supervisory capacity, we
also recognize the importance of developing an off-site reporting system for the
commercial bancs. With the help of the resident advisor from Banco de Portugal, we
will, during 1994, introduce a simplified system of quarterly off-site reporting for
commercial banks - such that by the end of this year, the central bank wiUl start to
receive and analyze, quarterly reurns from the banks on balance sheet position, loan
ewposures, and capital position.
28.   Foreign Exchange Management. Major progress has been made with respect to
foreign exchange management under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) supported
by IDA. Foreign exchange resources are now largely channelled through Banco de
Mogambique, and accountability for donor funds provided to support our balance of
payments position has improved considerably. We are pleased to note that increasingly



-54 -
more donors are utilizing the system which has been etablished through .be central
bank, as they become confident of its reporting capacity and the thoroughness of its
accountability.  Further improvements are intended, and the exchange control
departments will need to remain in constant contact with the donors, the private sector
in Mozambique, and the banks, to ensure that the access to, and allocation of, foreign
exchange is supportive of both a competitive banking system and an emerging enterprise
sector. During 1993, the two new banks, and Bank of Standard Totta, applied for and
obtained licenses to deal in foreign exchange. In early 1994, Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento also commenced foreign exchange operations. We will open up this
market even wider as new banks enter the economy. Over 1994 and 1995 we will also
move towards a less centralized system of foreign exchange allocation so that allocative
processes can be streanlined even further - but without loosing accountability for
donor funds - as donors untie their funds further and as we make progress on the
harmonization of disbursement procedures.
29.   However, our system of foreign exchange management, allocation and control requires
an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. We will therefore complete, in
consultation with the IMF and IDA, a Foreign Exchange Act for submission to our
Parliament by the end of this year. Thnereafter supporting regulations will be drafted
for approval and implementation. Final draft foreign exchange regulations will be
completed by June 1995.
30.   Accounting. The need for proper audited accounts in the banking sector is an issue
that we have been working on (in conjunction with IDA assistance) for the past three
years. Problems associated with splitting the Banco de Mogambique accounts from
Banco Comercial de Mocambique accounts - as well as a lack of a strong accounting
tradition in Mozambique, has made this process longer than originally anticipated.
Nonetheless, the central bank's new computerized accounting system is enabling interim
fmancial statements to be produced on a monthly basis and we believe that annual
accounts are now of auditable quality. The 1993 accounts for the central bank have
been prepared, and wilt be audited for the first time. Auditors have already been
appointed. The final audit report will be completed by the end of 1994. We will
ensure that future audited accounts for the central bank are produced on a timely basis -
- working towards a maximum six month lag (after the end of the year) in the
production of audited financial statements. Similarly, we want to ensure that the state
owned commercial banks, move rapidiy to producing audited accounts, as well as
monthly, unaudited balance sheet information, on a timely basis. In this regard, both
BCM and BPD have appointed auditors, and-the first audited statements for these two
institutions will be available in June/July 1994.
31.   A serious accounting problem within the banking system, has been the size and growth
of other items' in the balance sheets of the banks. To address this problem, we have
recently requested assistance from the International Monetary Fund, which has provided
a payments expert to help us reduce the level of transitory accounts, as well as
streamline the overall payments system. Through the introduction of a streamlined
check clearing system, improvements in branch accounting, and improving information
flows from donors and correspondent banks, we will reverse the growth of these 'other
items, as well as clean up existing balances which currently exist in these accounts -
to the extent possible. At the end of 1994, we will review the progress and agree on
any firlher action - as necessary - to deal with outstanding problems which may stll



-55 -
remain at that time.
The Huadal Sedor
32. Mozambique's banking system has not beon subject to the competitive pressures needed
to stimulae efficiency and improved services. Consequently the system has been
unable to provide effective banking support to the economy. Furthermore, past practce
of directiog credit through the banking system, to particular public sector clients and
"priority" activities, has resulted in a less than optimal allocation of financial resources.
Ihe poor performance of many banking system clients has resulted in a large overhg
of non-perfirng loans on the books of the state owned banks.
-33.   In 1990, Banco de Mogambique, commenced a program of macro-monetary and
fnaci  sector reform. The first step in this process involved the separation of the
centra baking function and the commercial banking functions of the then Banco de
Mocambique, and the creation (in late 1991/early 1992) of two separated insttutions -
- BM and BCM. Under this process, staff were relocated, management was separated,
and acounts were split. The final step will be the removal of the BCM headqurters
from the main building of Banco de Mogambique by October 1994. In addition, the
central bank has established guidelines for the entry of new banks - and for the first
time since independence, two new banks were allowed to begin operations as foil
service banks, in direct compeiion with the two state banks. The Government has
rmoved previous restrictions on bank client relationships which restricted an individual
or firm to using only one bank. IDA has assisted the Government's efforts in
implementing this first stage of financial sector reform under the Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC).
34.   We are now well advanced on the second stage of financial sector reform under which
we intend to deepen the measures commenced under the ERC. This will include
rengthening the central bank in the areas enunciated above, but will also involve
dealing with the problems in the state owned banking sector. During this phase of
financW  sector reform, the Government's main objective is to develop an environment
that is conducive to the development of a market-riented, independent, competitive,
commercially sound, and largely privately owned finani  system. To achieve this,
Government is committed to allowing banking institutions make lending and
management decisions free from outside intervention within the norms of prudential
regulation. Hence, credit is no longer directed by Government, and lending decisions
are made by banks on the basis of their commercial assessment of risk and ret
35.   Transforming the State Owned Banks. An important component of this phase of
financial reform will involve dealing with the existing problems in the state owned
banks. Whfle progress has been made in stemming the credit leakages in the banking
system there is a need to deal with the existing stock of losses which remain on the
books of the banks. Equally importny, we must address the problems inherent in our
payments system which have led to a large and growing amount of transitory accounts -
- thereby making macroeconomic stability difficult to achieve. An important part of our
reform agenda, includes dealing witi these problems in the two state banls -
reorienting their lending toward high return activities, and restructuing them as quickly
as possible.



-56.-
36.   Severl importan steps are already in train to deal with the problems in the two state
banks. First, the final accounting separation of BM and BCM has recently been
completed in a satisfactory manner. A program of action for the accounting separation
was agreed with IDA and the IMF and has now been fu1ly implemented. In addition,
draft strategic plans have been developed for the two state banks (with the assistance
of G1Z in the case of Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento). These plans will be
finaized, and programs of action agreed with IDA over the course of 1994. The plans
wil also be formally adopted by the owner of the banks (the Government), by the end
of 1994. These plans contain clear, monitorable benchmarks, and are designed to
implement our two key objectives of downsizing and preparation for eventual
privatization. As part of the implementaton of these plans, both banks have introduced
tight new lending policies which will result in the cessation of lending to clients with
non-performing loans. Such clients will be put on *collection only" status. Bad loans
In the state owned banks up to the end of 1993 will be separated out for collection in
specialized units of the banks. Future responsibility for financial support to enterprises
which have had their loans transferred to "collection only' status would revert to the
Treasury - although this would be strictiy limited within the budget, as explained in
paragraph 17.
37.   To assist the banks in achieving these objectives, we intend to investigate options which
can support the existing management of the banks reach this goal, as quicldy as
possible. Options under consideration include entering into a twinning arrangement
with a foreign bank and/or bringing in external management assistance in areas where
the banks are currently weak. The provision of financial support for such arrangements
has been made under a companion IDA credit - the Financial Sector Capacity Building
Credit. As part of the reform program, the management of BCM will have entered into
negotiations with one or more potential twinning/management contract partners, by the
end of 1994. We are exploring the possibility of amending the statutes of the two state
owned banks to permit external board members to participate on the boards of the
banks.
38.   In the meantime, the implementation of the provisioning regulation, the loan limits
regulation, broadening of the discount policy of the central bank, and the new system
for allocating bank by bank credit ceilings, are designed to ensure that the state banks
do not continue lending to non-performing clients, and that new private sector banks
can develop their activities. The bank supervision staff will monitor the lending
activities of the banks to ensure that they comply with the new banking regulations -
and appropriate penalties will be imposed upon banks which are found contravening
these policies. In addition to halting new lending to non-performing banking system
clients, clients with which the banks have a large lending exposure will have their levels
of outstanding lending reduced in compliance with the regulations on lending limits, by
the middle of 1995. I am pleased to report that these policies are already being applied.
39.   The state owned banks have created new collection units which will take aggressive
action on recovering past due loans through legal action or through negotiatons with
concerned ministries. Banks are free to sue defaulting clients in a court of law -
including a defaultig state owned company. Where guarantees have been issued on
Government loans, the banks will be expected to follow up with the Government by
calling on the guarane for non-performing loans. The Government will restrict the
use of Govemment guants through the banking system - especially where the state



-57 -
owned enteprise is already a poorly performing borrower. in any case, the accepUnce
of a guarantee (and the underlying loan) will remain the commercial decision of the
bank8ss management.
40.   Specific steps to be implemented in BCM over the course of 1994 wil ensure that rapid
progreis is made toward reaching the goals outlined above. As indicatd in its draft
strategic plan, BCM intends to produce audited financial statemenut for the fitst time
by the middle of this year; to develop new job descriptions for all staff by the middle
of the year; to have in place a comprehensive salary sucre for staff by the end of
the year - which provides appropriate rewards and penlties for individual
performance; to reduce bank perwsnnet by 300 staff by the end of 1994 (of these, 100
had already l3ft the service of the bank by April 1, 1994); to reduce all past due credits
in the bank by 25 percent (from their end 1993 levels) by the end of 1994; and to have
selected and hired exteal managers, in five selected areas, on the basis of a twiing
or management contract arrangement, by the end of this year. Ihese, and other
options, will be actively pursed during the course of the year to ensure that we are in
full negotiations with a potential partner by the end of 1994.
41.   The development of a new system of allocating bank-by-bank credit ceilings will be
introduced by the middle of 1994. This new system will be z,ased, inter alla on deposi
mobilization - and in pardcular - term deposit mobilizatioL This new system will
also give responsibility to the commercial banks to control their own levels of *other
kems- on their balance sheet, as the growth in these Items will impact negatively on.
their credit ceiling. This system will have the merit of moving the responsibltity for
managing both credit and other items to the banks themselves, rather than requiring
Banco de Mogambique to deal with these items ex post, in terms of the growth of the
overall money supply. Mhis system, as well as ecouraging the banks to mobilize
savings, will also encourage them to tighten their payments systems and ensure a more
efficient Iner-bank and inter-banch transfer system.
42.   Creat   a Level Playing Field and Increasing Banking Competition. As I have
indicated, much progress has already been achieved in creating a level playing field in
banking activities. Foreign exchange activites have been opened to banks other than
BCM and bank clients may now operae with more than one bank. The entry of the
two new bans is increasing competition in the sector. We are aware of other foreign
banking interest in Mozambique and anticipate there will be firther commercial banking
ery. Standard Bank (South Africa) has already opened a representative office in
Maputo, and other banks are known to be interested. In addition, non-banking
institutions have also shown interest in the Mozambique market. Equator Bank is
seeking permission to establish a local office, a new financial services company recently
commenced operations, and IFC is currenty investigating the possibility of a join
venture leasing operation in conjunction with a regional leasing company.
Consequently, we remain optimistic that, within a relatively short time, our previously
oligopolistic and higly segmened financial system, will be transformed into a
competitive sector.
43.   However, to secure such an outcome, the Govemment will ensure that ftre bank
licensing remains a transparent process and that undue restrictions are not placed an
banking activities by new banls. All new entrant will be permitted to enter the market
on an equal basis with existing instittions.



44.   Non-Bank IFiandal Institutions. Our Goverament is awa  that financil sector
activity extends well beyond the commercial banks and the central bank. Every attempt
will be made to encourage the entry and establishment of non-banking insdttuttons such
as leasing companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and merchan: bans.
Acdvities covered by these institutions are all important for the wide range of services
that they provide and the varying segments of the economy that they cover. Under the
Financial Sector Capacity Building credit, support has been provided to develop the
legal framework for these activities, and funding has also been made available for
undertaking studies on various aspects of these types of activities, wherever this may
be necessary. Hence, although this phase of our reform agenda focuses heavily on
central and commercial banking activities - the role of the NBFI's is also recognized
and is being supported.
Enterprise Sector Reform
45.   Any reform of the banking system will almost ceralinly fail, uess the client base of
the banks is credit worthy and commercially viable. Unforunately, many of the
existing clients have performed poorly and have a large stock of bad debt with the two
state owned banks. Reform of the enterprise sector is therefore key - and we feel that
it is imperative that financial and enterprise sector reform should move ahead in an
inter-linked manner.
46.   Our policy with respect to reform in the enterprise sector is based on two cent
themes. The first involves pushing ahead with the privaization agenda (specifically
with respect to the larger state owned enteprises) and the second involves addressing
environmentalu constraints to enterprise development.
47.   Privatzation. Cur Government has long recognized the need to move much of
existing economic activity out of the hands of the public sector and back to the private
sector. Our commitment to this process has been demonsted by the passing of the
1991 Privatization Act and the establishment of privatization units in the Ministries of
Agriculture, Industry and Finance. Significant privatization has already taken place in
a relatively short period of time with 263 small and medium scale enterprises and nine
large enterprises being privatized to date. We recognize, however, that for us to have
a major impact upon economic activity, it is necessary for us to move faster on the
privatization of the larger state owned enterprises. UTRE - the privatizadon unit for
the larger enterprises, based in the Ministry of Finance - currenty has a pipeline of
forty five companies at various stages in the privatization process.
48.   A review has been undertaken of the largest borrowers in the banking system. Of these
borrowers, fourteen state companies account for over half of the known bad debt in the
banking system. In our effrts to deal with enterprise and financial sector reform in
an inter-linked manner, we intend to focus attention on these fourteen lage companies
over the SERC. program period. Of this group, eleven will be privadzed (with a
majority private ownership) over the course of 1994 and 1995. These companies
include: Caju de Mogambique (cashew nuts), Emocha (tea), Boror (copra), Fabrica
Cerveja 2M (beer), Fabrica Cerveja de Beira (beer), Buzi Sugar Estates, Vidreira (glass
and bottle making), Cimentos de Mogambique (cement), Emplama (plastics), CETA
(construction), and Sena Sugar Estates. As an interim step in this process, by the
middle of 1995, the Government will have brought to the point of sale at least seven



-59-
of the eleven eterprises identiffied above, including Caju-de Mooambique, Emocha, and
Cimentos de Mogambique.
49.   The three remaining large, state-wned bad borrowers (LAM - the national airline,
Agricom - the agricultural marketing board, and CFM - the national railways) are in
the process of being restructured. We have developed an action plan to put L.A.M. on
a sound fiancial footing, which is already helping the company repay some of its
oustanding debt. We intend to review progress during the second half of 1994 and to
reach decisions on outstanding strucur reform issues. We will provide IDA with the
results of this review by the end of 1994. Agricoms activides in the marketing of
agricultn  commodities is being phased out. In the future it will no longer be a
commercial eaterprise and will therefore no longer require the support of the bankng
system. We intend to provide IDA, by the end of 1994, with a plaa which addresses
the settlement of Agricom's past debts to the banks.
50. 'he national rallways is a much larger company, operating three major railway transit
systems in the north, center and south of the country. It also operates the nation's port
facilities. This system was the repeated target of sabotage during the period of civil
conflict. A major rehabilitation program has been underway for seveal years with the
extensive support of the donor community. We also have underway a major
restrucuring program to commercialize CFM's operations and to establish it on a sound
fincial footing. We have already entered into leasing and operating agemens,
for part of the port and rail facilities, with a number of major users in neighboring.
countries. We are currendy in the process of selecting an investment banking firm to
help us review options for the future structure of the company - including private
participation. This study will commence later this year and will be completed in the
second half of 1995. We will convert the company into a public corporation by the
beginning of 1995. During 1994, the accounts of CFM wilt be brought up to date
enabling us to identify issues concerning the debt and equity structure of the
corporation. Ihereafter CFM will negotiate with the Government, the banks, and other
concerned parties, debt sericing responsibilities and arrangements. CFM has not been
borrowing from the banking system during the 1990s but will nonetheless need to reach
agreement with the banks on the repayment of outstanling debt, incurred in earlier
years.
51.   'Te forty five companies to be privatized through UTRE (mcluding eight of the
companies discussed in paragraph 48), are listed in Annex II to this letter. The
Government intends to privatize all of these large companies over the course of the next
three years. Some of these companies have non-performing loans in the banking system
- hence moving them into the prvate sector as quickly as possible is anticipated to
have a particularly beneficial impact upon the activities of the banks in Mozambique.
The proceeds from the sale of enterprises will help in dealing with enterprise debts and
defraying the social costs of the privatization process. It is anticipated that fourteen
companies from this list wfll be brought to the point of sale by the end of 1994; a
further twenty one companies by the end of 1995; and the remaining ten companies in
1996. However, it must be recognized that this timetable is ambitious and will be
influenced by a number of factors outside our control - in particu  political
developments in the sub-region.
52.   Addressing Constraints to Enterprise Developmt. Significant reform has already



-60-'
takn place within the enterprise sector in Mo2ambique. Price and distribution controls
have largely been eliminated, regular tariff adjustment mechanisms are in place for most
public utilities, a legal framework for privatization has been established, more than half
of the companies in theo state sector have been privatized, the structure of Import tariffs
has been rationalized, the Investment Act has been revised to strengthen incentives for
foreign and domestic investors, and an investment promotion center bas been
established. Despite this significant reform agenda we stil recd to make further
progress on improving the environment for business development.
53.   In 1994, we have launched, in conjunction with IDA, a study focussing on the
costrints to private sector development  This work is being undertaken in close
cooperation with the private sector, and wil appraise the impact of the various
enterprise sector refbrms which have already been implemented, as well as the
identification of any further actions which are needed to improve the buses
environment. In addition, as I have noted earlier, during 1994 the Government intends
to conclude a study on the replacement of the circulation and consumption tax by a
single VAT system. Also, during 1994, to reduce unfair competion from the
smguginug of imports, the Government intends to enhance the effectiveness of customs
administration to make it less of a deterrent to offi'-ial trade and, more fundamentally,
review the impact of import duties and excise and sales tax policies which may be
motvaing smuggling.
Condusion
54.   In view of the adjustment measures that have already been iniated and those that are
expected to be implemented in the near future, as discussed above, the Government
requests your favorable consideration of the Second Economic Recovery Credit. It is
our intention to expedite the reform process in a manner and pace which are technically
and administratively feasible and consistent with our overal development goals.
Yours sincerely,
Orinal sined by Minister Contihe
Eneas da Conceiao Comiche
Minister of Finance
Republic of Mozambique
O°gWna on  ke in the Legal Depwmeit



-61-                                    ANNEX If
S,4494                      UTRE ACTION PLAN FOR 1994/1996
__1994_1995            1996
1 st    2nd      1 st     2nd      1st      2nd
I   DIMAC              MCA    Dec-93      _
2   Prosul             MCA    Dec-93
3   Hidromoc           MCA      Dec-93
MoNrgo                MICOM   Dec-94
8 F rigo               MA      Dec-92  _.
29Plrsfcm EEpu       SEPM    Dec-94
0 Cogropa              MICOM   Dec-93
1 FoGadora             MIE     Dec-92
9  Ifloma              MA       Dec-92
33 Cometat             MtE     Dec-92
13  Emplama            MIE     Dec-92
13  Fasol              MIE     Dec-93
13  Sabofel S          MIE     Dec-93
14  Clmentos Maica-   MA       Dec-93
1   CSteia             MCA      Dec-93 _
16   TTA               MTC      Dec-94 _
17  ENCATEX            MICOM                           Dec9393
48  MOCSEIRA           MIE     Dec-94
19 Agro Alfa           MIS     Dec-93 ---.,
20  Camoc              MTC     Dec-94 -B8 l _
21  Metecna           MIE      Dec-94                    .a,.11          _
45 GMralco             MIE     Dec-94
23Est. Navais Beira  SEP     Dec-94                  ;- t<-v" l   il 
24 Equspo sc D SEP            Dec-94r
25  C. R. Iinpopo     MA       Doc-94                       
26  kmbec              MICOM   Dec-94                          i-  
27  E N Turismo        MICOM   Dec-94                 )§--.;            _
28  EMARNA             MTC     Dec-94. __
29  Hldraulica Maputo    MAlDce-944
30  Neomoc         MCA    Det4o
31 Gemnas Pedras La. MRM       Dec-94 >>U<>
32Anfrena            MTC     Dec-94.  .g
33Navinter           MTC    Dec-94                                -    ;
34  Caju de Mocwnbique  MA     Dee-92
35  CETA               MCA    Dec-93                E        -
36  Emocha EE          MA      Dec-93 .
37  BomroSARL          MA      Dec-93            |
38  Fabrica Cerveis 2M    MIE  Dec-93 
39  Fabrica Cenrea Beira  MIE  Dec-93 ..
40Sovesto            MIE                 Dec-9393
41  Cimentos de Mac.   MCA    Dec-93-|
42   M               MIE     Dec-93 
43NAVIUE             MTC    Dec-94      f . 
44CARBOMOC           MRM    Dec-94i:-i:. 
45MARMONTE           MRM    Dec-94....                                   .
DPR (Company Dossier) 
PrelhifkatiordTender_
Negodatfon_



6 APO 1994                                                                                                                                                      ANE  11
AOMTM S OtOND Ac Y 
POLICY AREAS                              OWEIIVE                           ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                         TO BE IWLEMENTED
1. MACROECONOMIC FRAMWORK
Momniiu  has suffeed frm  a long   Developm_n  of a sabl  maco-ecoonomic   The Government hs introduced foreign   Sat Lfadtort mac-rneornk progrs  adr
peiod of civil wars and misdieted polic    envro   t to  ppt postive growth in  exchange burteau  and a scondary ffmrkeA  the PFP [Second and TAtrawhe Release).
which  have inpaced adversely upon most  per capa incom, lower th  rate of  rate for most foreign exchange tmnsactions
forms of economic activity.  Theiucen   inflatobn, and restore a ustainablo baknce of  and new operaton (both banks and exchange
signing of a Peace AccoWd ad eleethns in  paymt position.  Gwth will need to  buras) have recently entered the nmaket.
1994 should lad to a resumption of nxmo    come fm "the development ofauiculturual  Pries have been gradually deregulat  and
nomnl  economii  activity  to  suppt   activits and a reovery in indusl activity  the need to maintain fixed prices on existing
_cononuc growth.                         - based upon maudt detemn   pe  ad   sprdts is being continually reviewed.
prvate seco  paipatn.   Thui  will  The Oovenumet his reduced tho underyeing
requiro agotin adjustment to exhang and   budget deficit befor an after gas relhive
interest raes, a grad   redti  in the  to CDP -- and the amount of net crodit to the
overa  fiscal deficit, ad a reduction in the    ovenmwnxt from the baning sysem has
rute of growth of domestic cradit.       bee reduced.
Inst na  hav been   duay  mplfied
aWd deregplaled. Lendig sad depost rats
are reviewed on a quately basi to keep
thn posive in real tenms.
.  IANAGEMENT OF PUDUC ENPENDITURE AND EXITRNAL AID                                                                     -_.
(a)    .odl  D          'hpmesEe   M                                                  ________
Thee is a polifbtion of Goenmet,   To impo  the mangemnat of public   Pgess hs been made in some areas -   Govemment to produce ihtrat6d setoc
donor, and  NOD  prcts  which  are  expenditures and  tetm   ad - wthi the  pasticulady the health sector - in developing   stteg  pepe  for thee sctor  - heath,
uncoodiated  -ad a  frequnly maed   paraets of fscmal susainabily dfetnined   a coodinated, progmmed appach by the   education and agrietlture, by the end of 1994.
with, ln1 technical assistance (becs of  under DAIJMP pams                         Ooveonet, donors and NOOs.                Government wil develop a fuHl   nor of
the Govemes lak of dapsiy to dad   It i als  impoxtat to moe away from   Fuer pogrss isreq d in thissetor, as   prqject   and  recurnt  sad  invent
wvh a lr    nber of dispaate projets)  framented pojec assistance with inadequat   we1  as with respect to education ad   expenditus . undedken by the Govenent,
and  wut   sufficnt   concem  to  the  re       t fuding to seoal prognr m lending   ag lue.                                 donors, a  NOs- in  e health education,
rec    it ceo  mplions of ths prjets.  deemined by Governmn pries.                                                           N  agriculture  ctors, wi  an indication of
.thir relativo piority, by the ead of 1994.



(b)   So da   S ecto   Ex en luO s        _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _      _    _   _   _   _ _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _
The  Is a need to at lea  maintin real  To increws t  human capital of the poor  Duing th  Fourth RehabiLitation Credit  Government wil at la maintain budgetary
expetditres on heth and oducation in the  and offsed t   svere decline of social  (ERC), in 1992 and 1993, the education and   altoations on goods and soevie  for education
budget.                                 expenditures in 198047, Govemnt is to  helth budget for goods and servimes were  ad heath -- in the 1994 and 1995 budgets -- in
giv  incraued priority to educmtion and  increased by 23 percnt an  52 percet, in   ta terms.
helth. To ralect this, there is a need to   ma tenms, rpectively.                Continue to inplemntg sysem of diret income
allocae budgtary reaour¢es to education and                                      tranfes to the poorest urban huwhods.
to health.
(C)   Puce Cmntels_
Prior to 1987 many prices was controlled in   To cro a mact detenined picing   Pri  controls on an additional 22 producs The Government will continue liberazing
Mozimbiquc. The  is a need to  decontrol  rystenin Mozambique.                   wer abolished in the second half of 1993.  prics and will regularly adjust rmaning
Prices to pennit mart forces to operte.                                          Administered primes aro now limited to two   admniste     prics to reflect domestic and
to the extent possible.                                                          basic goods (wha  flour and brad) and  import costs.
som  uhtility prices of monopoly producers.   Ctndd p*es to no knger ep$y to dj
goods coirnd aptepunt (C,IWIfoS  f Seond
(d  Budpt Consn__
Stae owned entepies (SOEs) need to be   Reduce the subsidies flowing from  the  Ther hao ben significant rductions in  Sbsidks to SOBs,, through sde natwd
_eonditud as comm ial etities   or  budget to Stat Ownd Enterprises.             expficit budgetaW resorares flowing to SOEs  budgt Wl  ot  exced I Perae  of GD? fez
privatizd  so that they an operawithout  To enur  that, in combiion with a  sinc 1987.                                   the  199S budget fCondWlon  of Second  I
bugt  asiane.                           csatio of bfe       by comm     banks to                                         Thnchsl.
In addition, budgta  reourmes could be   nonpefonming banig syem clients, that
mor  appropriately  utilized wihin  the   SOEs  Ae   m  offetiv   hrd  budget
eeonmy.                                   trai
To permit budge resources to be alloated to
.~~~~te mon pessig  activte.
3. MONEFARY POLUCY AND a                          'EniE CENTRAL RA
(a)  St nteng Moneta  Poiy Cpablitis
bnter   Rates. Hitouelly, iterest naes  There is a necd to degulato itet rates,  btees   ate  ha     been  subsaiay   Progrvely  deregulate  iereat  es
have boen an infrleible and administered  ailowing bas to s  rats in conpeitio    derete  an  t           significaty   eonint with proges on controlling    ion.
tool Of dmtay Policy,                   with one ather but w       the conxt of  simplified.                             Review  net   sate developments, duingl
positive ate en landing and depost.                                              199U95, to ensure that landing  _ts ra_in
potiv   Inra ternm.



-~~~~~6 
|   5   |  ,  - _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~J
4ts   >       sS    g g                .#                    S ".S~
1"1  Fi}  13ffi'1}           1 x,                     [SI



Offstte Reportng.       Dank& Suprviion   Tho ceal bank  supeiory department                                             DM to develop and inplemant a siplified
DEpaetme  needs to develop an off-ste   needs to f lly undertan the ca t poition                                         quartedy  off-site   poting  system  for
view proc  for fiacl institutions,      of all fiJanr  institutons even when it is                                       commeial bnks (pviding iformatiuon on
ot currently conduc tn  n examintin of a                                         balanch dh  posion, profit and ss, exposr
patclar bak-s bos.                                                               limits, and so on), by Deember 1994.
Bank Exiinato. Bankexaminon and   Loan postfoho and oher balanc  sheetims   An accounting fnn is workig  with the  Complete  bank   exam/loan  portfolio
potfolio rview wok shul be conmmeced   rqr nepednt asement by the ceantl  mangemt of the commneui  bank  to  eks4&athn   of die fun  domsn*   ba*s
as mm as is practicable.                bank to determ  if sulftciant provisions ar   assist n produng audied acounts for the  ICondlOon of Second TroJe.
being mae against bad debts and to idertia   three existing commer   banks.
ohr potenial losses in the acoun .      A team of four experic  bank exans
has ben recited to work with staff from
th bank superison departmt, on a short
term (x month) bai, to compleot s credit
review to detenmine the dats of the loan
portfos of th banks, and tain loal staff.
(c) Foteig Excan  Man.gem t 
Strengtbening  Foreign  kxehange   Centralize, as much as possible, fogein   Foreign  exchange  activities  were   Complete a sodfady Jal drft Foreign
Manageme_ t and the legIave   ae.         n       trantons through DM, whil  substantially  ctalz     at Bance  do  Ewchag  Act md s*bmt  to Paln
Ther is a need to  ngthen de sysm of  ehaning tho bak's capacity to rport to   Mogambique  under  the  Economic    Cond on of Seond Tnmrn .
foren  xcha     management wit  Banco  donors on utiizato of funds, and  nure a  RehabiLitation Credit (ERC).I
de Momque                                at dmiv  and t         _ransaret syetem of  A draft Fonsign Exchang  Act has been   Submi drqft Foreipgn xheg R aglnsa to
Them  is curnly  no  tegive base  foreign exchan           ament and onrwol.   ppared but was rqeetod by Parliament.    IDA CondWon of Td lvwhel.
unI         the exchange eotn sdem in   Dvelop the lel framework for the conduct  A  tecnal exper  to  assist in  the
Mlorambique.                            of foreign exche  busi, as well as th   strengthening  of th  foreign  exhag
development of bted  glat .             dep ents of Buanc  de Moambu  b
bean appointed.
and Repotg. Improve  To ens   dons tht the ctal bak can  Considerable progress has been made in  Continue  to  improve  central  bank
mmunications andpotg to t  donor  adeque   acount for the utilztio  of   mproving reporting systems in Banc  do  comniosaons with dons, commercial bas
community on th utilizati  of their funds.  donor roure in a maimer which masts  Moambiquw.   Communicon with the  an  the prvae secOrtho   the donor
bmpv   ommnwdntio  with tho banks and  thdir rpoing and audit rerme. To  doons, banks and buslnesa sect  also lwoilng gwrlUp and other fos.
tho business community on th conduct of   raully  sroean   to  functdoning of  continues to iprove.                      Continually imp     forign exhangerepoting
foreign  exchange  tansactions  in  foeign oexchang tu        on.                                                        fomts to meet the audit rquiaements of th
MoanPb_e.                                                                                                                dowo.



(d)   A ccoa dn_                             _   _   _   _  _   _ _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _ _  _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _ _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _
|Pmn shortly after indpenldeno until dh    Crate a fim fiancial dis tton between   The account of the two bank have been    vovI  eated 199l B       de de Moansbtgq
end of 1991, Banco de Moambique (BM)  cental bank activt  and commercial bank  formally sqead from mid-1992.              finaIl  W*mnats to IDA   enad en of
operated as both the c al bank and the  activities.                               Eerw  auditors htav  been appointd to  Secotd T*cle
larges commcial bank in Mozambique.                                               conduct the fust eta  audit of the
The bak has bAd to be split into its cemnl                                        financial  statements  of  Banco  de
bag   d conmmeci  bang f           .                                              Mogambique.
| and separt accounts prpared for both
instations.
Payments sytms are patticularly poor.  To develop a  officient payment  systenm  An Intrnationa  Monexay Fund nission   Develop an efficient clearing system within the
Checks  tdke  a  long  time  to  clear.  with low leves of transitory itm  and a  visited Mozambique during mid-1993 to  commercial banking system.
Unclassified aseslibltie and transitoy   substantially smaer compont of otdher   review   these  issues  and  make
accounts have come to fbno     a major  assets and liaies on the balancs dseets of  recommendations.
compon   of the balance sheet of the banks.  the banks.                           An  IMP  payments advisor has  baen
appointed to work with BM and the
conumia banks on clearing mechanism
and tho psymmis ystm.
(e)  Le ga M s                         _.
The  oal fmmework in Moambiue is  The work rquixed in this ar  is vas. The   A Central Banking Act nd a LAw on Crdit  A sytematic legal stmngthening component has
largly ouaed Porguese laws.  The   medium two oijective is to develop a egal  Institutions have ben enacted.               been devdoped under the Financial Sctor
operation of the court SQem iS slow - and   framewodk whch suppots finacial sector                                         Cpacity Building Prjeect (FY94).              6
tho capaeity for benks to recover on   developmet.  To reviow and up4date the
delnquent lending is extremely difficut,.  most relevant legislation.  Comnce the
proess of developing the legat infrsuctr
(court system, tegistuiss, notaries).
4.  FINANCIAL SBCMIOR REFORM           _                                          _
(a) Crefting a Le Payg  ied F   Bween the Con_ea   a___
In tho past Mozambique hs operated with a  To create a levlt playing fweld btwoen the  Custms can have a reationship with more   Ensure tt new banking entnts -- end non-
|largy sa  owned, segete co_mmei    exing bans operting in Mozunbiqu  To   than one bank. Ther are no longer specific  bank fulanciastitutions can continue to enter
ban8ing sector. Specifc banking actvies   nu  that al new banking sector entants  activities (such as formx dewlings) sesetved  the naket on an equal basis with eisti
have been daoca  to specific banks. Dank  can provide  fuU range of bnking services.  for spific banks. New private bank ar   insttutions.
liets wer only p-ne a elt*Ionhp                                                   permitted entsy in compeition with to de
wih one ba     New bnig erhy ws net                                               owned banks. Th    basa  now also
p-m . Cotition was  ld.                                                           compet in a fd rango of bakindng services.



Q)Transfesdnlg the State Owned Daub                                            _______________
Alhough the as been a separation of the  Develop Stotc  Plans for the two sao   Theom is  videnc  that private  eto r  Stotegi  P        coood    d an agfed
accounts of 13M and BCM, this pmuceas has  owned bank  which outline their staegic  boowers are obtaining an incteasingly   AcaOn Pla  aoped for both of die State
not baen comp       satsftorly,         options  for  achieving  downsizing,  largo  share of bank credit at the expens of  lanA.  Formal adopton of plas by the
Although the two ste owned banks hwv   tommeoaliration and ultiat privaton.  publc sector borrowers.                     owner of tk  bakns (Codon of Seawd
beono to change thir behavior, thy will  It i   qually inport  to support the                                            Twchel.
quir substantial asssanc  if they are to  unplarnentlo  of imnedie mesure to  The aounting separation of 3CM and DM   a        ro  bth Sofe s od   JA    n0 laip
be  propely  reformed  and  become   sttengthen famncial and lending policies in  habeen saisfactrily complekd.          non-performing  loans  tronsfe4med  to
pdativon  cadidxtes over fth  longer  the osw  b .                                                                        cIlecdon only I, Nb(vCWodo  of Second
term.                                                                           Work has co_mmed on a Strtgi Plan for  Trw*kJ.
Lenig   activities of the bank  must                                             Banco Popular do Desevolvimento and a   Banco de Mofablque to  airodce a new
Incieasing   be diced away from th                                               daft Strategi Plan has been prvided for   ,sym  of dlocat   bank-by-bank  credit
publ  to tho privat  sector, and credit                                         3CM.                                     celins codl  Of Second flwh.
allocn must inceasiny    move away                                                                                       Tide new meod to take into wccount growth in
fom  the public banks to the privt  ector                                                                             . *oWer items net" - on a bank by bank basi --
banks                                                                                                                    to give the banks an incetive to cotrol the
gowth of thes otheritms (which are a sourn.
of nonetary expansion), as wel as credit.
Audited 1993 finanal stants for BCM  nd
BPD to be finalized before the end of 1994.
BCH   maagete  to  have  iitaled
negotiations  with   a  potential
twibnigrnanegememt      Oa   partis
(Condtio  Of Stecod Twachel.
(c)  I_      bankin Compeolo_
MosaMque's banklng syem  hws been   Creation of a competv  bankn  sector  Two new bauks havo entered the madkt in   EnBro that fiture bank licensig rem   a
donated  by a single banking inditution   with Al bank competing on a level playing   1992. A South Afican bank has eabisd   tanspaent  poce   -- and  dat unduo
which h  also doinaed most commial  field. IAtroduction of non-bank competition   a representative oftc and other RSA bank  rctios ar not placed on bag activities
banking activities                     bfor depost taking and lending acdviies.  ar known to be intered  in defeloping   by new banks.
pret ion  in Mozambique. The IFC is  Also enourpag             entry of n    g
discussing a joint venture with a egiol  institutions mch as leasing companies, ctedit
leasig company. Equator Dank is seekg   urn, inuoe companie, husi  fnc,
pemiion to ostablih a local presenco as a   merhnt banks, and  on.
Mechnt bank in th first hlf of 1994.



S. ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM
(a)  *dresf       nstrans to Entrpe Delop                                       __.n_  _
Despito sgalficant rforn in the entrris   To further deelop a policy environenta  Significant enteprise refonn has Iready   Conclude stdy on the intrduction of VAT, by
sector, tm  am atill many contrajas to   which Is conducive to tho devopment ad   taken place, including: (a) elminmtion of  the cnd of 1994, and take suitable folow up
eaterprs development in Mozambique -   growth of a healthy entp     mecto  --  most distribution controls; (b) regular taff  action.
both internal and external              operating in conjunction with a healthy  adjustment nechanisms in place for public   During 1994, rview irn coUabortion with the
fincwia sector.                         utilities; (c) urgent rehabilitation canied out  private sector the inpact of various entrprise
for key enterprises; (d) law on privatization  related reloms implemented  to dae and
in plce and good progress made on  identi*l any further actions which are needed to
privatizing SOEs; (e) Investment Act revised  improva the business environment.
and Investment Coeter established; (f) some
trade reforms implemented; (g) differential
between official and parallel oxchange ratos
largely eliminated; (h) direct subsidia
phased out - including commodity aid.
The IMP has reviewed the tax system in
Mozambique and made ecommendationi on
movemnt from a ystem of cascading taxes
to a system of VAT. Interim tax and tariff
j measures introduced in the 1994 budget.
(b) Privatlzatton                      _
Mczarnbique's economy has been largely   Devolop a private enterprise sector which is  Prgress  has  been  made  under past  rhe Gowenment wWl p*ovlle seven of the   c
public sector dominated over the period   strong and commercially viable.        adjustment operations  with  respect to  following, large, noneforming, bankIng
since indeendence.  In order to ensure  Privatization of state owned entrprises will  privatization.  Privatization legislation has  system  dlents:   Cqa de  Moumbique,
future economic growth, a shifl toward a  be an important component of this process.   been enacted and approximaty 263 smal  Emocha, Boror, Fabrfca Cervea 2M, Fabela
privately owned, market controled system is                                      and nedium enterprises have been privatized   de Cerveja de Bebma, Bazd Sugar Estaes,
required.                                                                        as wol as 9 large cnterprises.          VWnh, ClmeWnosde Afoambtque, Emplaa,
A   comprehensive review   has  been   CET, aNd Sena Sugar Estates (CoR    of
undertaken of the fRifty largest a. mowers in Third I2nnhe). Remaining four companics to
tho banking system. The largest of thew  are  be privatized by end 1995.
state owned, and have non-performing loans  Govenment to revew progms of Adtn Fts
in the banks.                          to restorv  haWnci souness of L4M and
Of the 14 largest SOEs, 11 are slated for  prvide msbs to IDA, Gvenlwrn to provfd
pritization -- the remainig three are  IDA Wth pla for setng Agrcom's debts to
curently undegoing tedsucturng.         the #wiag SYtem  (Condin of Second
rnehel.
CFM to complete key Wtps hi retr*tuing
prgrm bpdud       t*g     Saeg  Sta^,
b*agbg acowas up to dat, conron to
pai cmpany, aN  ageing *dbt Wasont
Wih bks ICoUwIdo of Thd )wleJ.
oenment to ptivtiz5  a    companies.
tough UTRE, over t  course of 1994-97 -
in accordance with agred plan.



-69 -
ANNEXUm
Page 1 of 5
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actua                      Esiae                   rojected
1989       1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995       1996
Nation Accounts (% of GDP
at curre  market primes)
Gross Domestc Product
Agriculture'                  39.5       39.6        36.2       32.4        33.0       32.9        32.7       32.7
Industry'                     12.8        11.6       11.0       10.5         8.2        7.4         7.4        7.4
Services'                     40.8       42.0        45.9       50.2        51.9       S2.8        53.0       53.1
Total Comption                 116.1       111.7      109.2       113.4      111.0      120.6       103.6      101.9
Gross Domestic Fxed             34.6        38.1       39.0       38.4        41.5       45.0        42.5       40.7
Investment
Government Invesutent           21.6       24.2        22.6       22.0        20.1       20.0        17.3       15.6
Private Investmen               13.0        13.9       16.4       16.4        21.4       25.0        25.2      25.1
(includes changes in stok)
Exports (GNFS)                  15.1        15.9       21.6       23.6        21.3       24.8        26.6       28.5
Imports (GNFS)                  65.8       65.7        69.8       75.5        73.8       90.3        72.8       71.1
Gross Domestic Savin           -16.1       -11.7       -9.2      -13.4       -11.0      -20.6        -3.6       -1.9
Gross National Savings         -22.7       -15.0      -12.5      -19.0       -14.3      -25.7        -8.8      -6.5
Memorandm Rens
Gross Domestic Product        1329.9      1443.2     1433.4      1285.0     1467A      1427.0      1546.3    1676.6
(US$ mill at curent prices)
GDP per capga (USS Atlas        95.7      10(A        100.2       86.2        94.1       87.5        91.0      96.1
meduhd)
Real Annua Growth Rates
(%. calculated from 1987
prices)
GDP at marketprices              6.5         1.0        4.9       -0.8        19.1        5.8         5.9        6.1
Gross Domestc Income             6.3        0.9         5.3       -1.8        19.1        5.7         5.9       6.1
Real Anmual per capia
Growh mates (% calculatd
from 1987 prces)
GDP at market prices             5.0       -0.4         3.5       -5.0        144         1.3         3.3        3.5
Total Consmption                 5.9        -2.8        1.S       -5.2        15.3        2.1        -6.5        2.2
Private Consumpdon              10.9       -3.2         2.0       -7.0        17.9       -1.6         0.5        4.7
Notes:
t       GDP components am esimad at factor cost and in coat pries



-70-
ANNEXIm
Page 2 of 5
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Acua                       Esimted                Projetd
1989       1990        1991       1992        1993        1994       1995       1996
| lOance of Fayments
(US$uiil) 
Exports (GNFS)                 200.2       229.4       309.5      303.9       312.0       353.4      411.5      477.1
Merchandise fo.b.             104.8       126.4       162.3      139.3       131.8    - 164.0       195.0      221.1
Impors (GNFS)                   875.3      948.1      1001.0      969.7      1082.8      1288.9     1125.1     1191.4
Merchandise f.o.b.            760.7       806.9      823.9       782.2       872.8     1046.6       893.7      951.1
Resource Balance               4675.1     -718.7      4691.5     -665.8      -770.8      -935.5     -713.5    -714.4
Net Curremt Transfers           516.3      590.9       635.3      640.8       666.3       812.1      682.5      699.4
(including official trsfers)
Current Account Balance        -375.2     -318.0      -236.5     -239.2      -316.5      -350.5     -268.3    -255.5
(after official capilal grants)
Net Privat Foreign Drect          3.4        9.2        22.5       25.3        32.0        35.0       40.3       46.3
Investmeat
Long Team Loans (net)           -58.4      -92.7      -210.0     -180.4      -139.0       -42.4      -45.4       29.5
Otfiial
Private
Other Capitd (inluding         427.3       407.4       436.7      434.1       377.3       392.9      309.4      240.5
errors and omissions)
Change in Reserves                2.9       -5.9       -12.7      -39.8        46.2       -35.0      -36.0      -60.8
(- = inrease)
Mlentoranduin Items
Resource Balance (% of         -150.8     -149.8      -148.2     -151.8      -152.5      -165.6     -146.1      -142.6
GDP at curent market
prices)
Rea Amnal Growth Ras
(1987 prices)
Merchandise Expors (f.o.b.)       5.8       13.2        24.9       -2.6        -0.5        18.6       12.4       12.0
Primary                         na.        n.e.        n.a.       n.a.        na.         n.a.       ns.        na.
Mamnuaturers                    na.        n.s. naa.              n.s.        na.         n.U.       n.a.       na..
Merchandise Imports              10.9        2.1         3A         -6.5       11.1        17.2      -17.1        3.2
Nows:
GDP componems are esimated at factor cot and in constant pnies.



-71 -
ANNE[ M
Page 3 of 5
KEY ECONOMIC VNDICATORI
___ _..._  I ___BdAB ,;
1989       1990       199i       19912       193        19Q        1995       1996
Public Fance ( of GDP
Iat currant maktpil.)
Cu(r>   Revees                  2.         22.2       21.7       21.1        20.0       19.2       19.0       18.9
Cuenm E      _pndinre           47.6       S1.5       46.6       47.3        4.2        44.4       36.0       32.4
Surn   (+) orddfcit()           24.7       29.2       24.9       263         22.2       25.1       17.0       13.5
(bfor grnts)
Capa Exp_enr                    21.6       24.2       22.6       22.0        20.1       20.0       17.3       15.6
horeig Fumn11. 119                           .0       12.7       11.9        10.9       15.0       10.9        8.8
Maewtay Inkdlcaor
M2/GDP (at curnt    3t 7.7                 39.0       34.4       36.1        364        33.9       30.8       28.7
pices)
Growd of M2(%)                 4.9         36.5       30.1       52.8        603        40.        25.2       17.0
Piva Sectr Crdiat   wh         102.0       93.0      122.0       89.0        71.0      112.0       nL. aa
to Total Creit Gowthh(S)
Prce Inle. (19l7 - 100)
MeuInise Exporn Price           93.2       99.3      102.1       89.9        85.6       89.8       95.0       98.7
Index
Mad lia Ipot Pnc               10S.4      112.2      111.1       113.1      113.6      116.2       119.6     123.3
Inlex
Me     _eandin TamOf a£1        88.S       88.5       91.9       79.5        85.3       77.3       79.4       80.1
Real Excha   Ra                 93.0       94.0       80.5       75.9        76.5
(US$ per Mt)
Red Intere Ronp
Comanner Pike bals             42.1        49.2       33.2       45.1        424        50.0       30.0       18.0
(% gowth)
GDP delar(%gwthX af)           47.4        34.0       46.2       53.3        46.7       480        30.2       18.3
Notes:
GDP composcuts a estdmed at  es, cm ad in eommlp&m



-72 -
Poverty and Sodal Developmeflt Iadicstors                           ANNEX m
Poverty and  piui                                 ~~~~~~~page 4 of 5
Mozambiquet Priority Poverty Indicators
MIot Swum         f              New
US& f                            anow      sahq,m        LO.rw.    Ica
Ir.,&,o                twsF                       n     19S 12 
Priorty Poverty Indicators
POVERl'
Uppova m                                      . _ 
H        aadcUnt-laf                  %fpop                                                            19
Lowepowzty lne                        lec am       _ _
Headcount                             %ofpOp.             _                  _
GNPpercapbas*                             USS                 _       190         60        520        390
SHORT TERM   COME INDICATORS
Unsd urN        s                      locl GM.                                    -                     -
Unsidd il   ges man
Rua t=s of Uade                            '
Consumeprie IWc.                       196-100               _         27        418
iuxte I -                                a                  -                    -_...
Food                                                         _         _          _
Urban                          .                                      .. _        _                          ..        _
Rural
SOCAL MDICATO
Pubrac _endte on ba  socia $Vic=s      %Of GD        P        -    _    .        .13.1
Gross enrolmetuos 
P.may                               %scbool aupop.           47        86         60         66         103
wale                                      '                           97         69         79         113
Fanalc                                    '                           75         50         62         96
nfatmoroq                          par thou. live brt    1430       1712       162.1       99.0       73.0       45.0
5nuz s tda                                *                  _         _       2762       169.0      108t0       59.0
maesft                           .        %ag-p                      39.0       23.0       54         7n
DPO r r                                                              29.0       19.0       S4.6       80.6
Child m mtn (Ar-S)                                            .         -          -        28.4       38.          _
Lft axpecun -
Total                                   ye                  35        40         44         52          62         68
Fe- advanmga                              *                4.7        S.1        2.4        3.4        2.4        64
TotalW  ility te         *          , l  per                6.6        63         65         6.1        3.4        3.1
Matnal .tt  m                      pwr 1300000 bWds                   3_           _ _                   -
Suppismmsuatau Povery Inicators 
Expenditure on sociW sewaity        %of otalp go~tap..                             -          .. 
'Social securitycovae.              %cam.. a.. _.                                             .
Am= to swan                            %ofpcp.                -       IS.0       24.0       41.1       68.4
Urba                                    *                          38.0       44.0       77.8       78.9
Rural                                                     2.0       9.0        17.0      273        603
,Accestobeallhea*                                       -          _  400        30.0        _                      _
Populati gtow  rafte                GNM per apw  tge Dgrh                drmand
2                                                                             cm  1C : 7<<G
10                                    Lift expecanicyt
1970.75    19804S               1987-92            198045   1987-92               A_e   __ af w
wl_  btams



-73-                                                       ANNEX
Mozambique: Resources and Expenditurs                                     Page 5 of 5
UA&qf ~      ~        ~        M   mrfnm,rq,                      Ns
UfIa*ef       -Enu                                *ka            e.       L w
Ineagw                                    aweo          1977       IowS  t            ?92      4Mw        hai
Reoum d Ey_
HUMAN UZSOURCIS
Poplettow"(Wre199                         touc               10506       3,791      16,511    546,390   3,194.535    942,547
Age iepeM nyq rtio                          ratio              0.89       0.88        0.90       0.95        0.61       0.66
Urban                                     %ofpoP                8.6       19.4        29.8       29.S        26.7       57.0
Population gtowth rite  ~%ofanna                     2.5        26         2I5          2.9         I8         1.4
Urban                                                          95         9g3         7.64       5.1         3.4        4.8
Labor force (1544)                        thousands           5,531      7,671       8,791    224,025   1,48,954 
Agrilarte                              %Softbotlit              *5          84          _ .     .
Industr                   1                                      7     _     7
Female                                       *                  so          49         47          3?         33          36
Femals per 100 males
Urban                                 nu er _                              83          -                       -
Rw4                                    _                                   19           _           _
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     dsou.sq. kmt        801.59     801.59      80139   24,274.03   38.401.06   40.69~77
Dent                                    pop. e s               132        172         20.1       219         81.7        2Z.8
Agichal land                            %of                    60.0       601         60.1       52.7        50.9
Chaug  i agrIuual land                    a %                   0.0        0.0         0.0        0.1         0.0
.AgScubwd   aze sw                           96SM  %0.1                    0.2         0.2        0.8        182.2
Foremantd woodndho  sq.                                         6          149        141 
Deforestaon (net)                        _a     % _                                    0.8 _
INCOME
Household ino2
Sle of top 20% ofhouuebd                %of come                                       - 
Shveofbom=40%1Yofhou=sebdds                                     .           -                -                }19
Share of botom 20% of housholds              *                  _           -          -           -           8
EXPENDITURE
Food                                      %ofGDP                 ..          _        293
-est                                         a                                        V*           -           -B*
Stapes;f^mt,c ee                             *                              _.OS                     
Me aZ s                              tho   eo twins           191         59B       1,164     20,311      46,S37      74,924
Food aidicreals                               R                 34         379        591       4,303       9,008      4,054
Foodp_ tca Pat c1987-100                                        116         88         65          90         123          _
FertIlzer consuniption                     kgla X0.1                      0.1         0l         4.2        61.9
Share of agricultureIGOP                  %     D                _        59.8        59.2        18.6       29.6
flousn                                    %ofDP                  _           _         8.7          -          _
Aage household sive                  poaso  perhouebold          ..        43     _       .
Urbn                                                            _           _.         _           ,,_.
Fixed InvestmenthofGDP_hous.ng            % of GD?
Fuadeandpower                             %of GDP                _           _         4.6          -          _
EnrgyconsumptimnperCaPIN                kg of oleq}v.           74          39         32         258         335       1,882
Households wi el icy                                                                              -
Urban                                 % ofhootda                _           _
Rural
Tnsport an csmunAon                       %ofGDP                 ..                    10.0;
ced inveSmnat tr.npt equlpenat                                              ..         6.4
Total foad kng                            dmo. km.              39          35         35           -
INVE5MIET IN HUMA CAUTAL
Healthlos                                                               443
Popdulainper phyicia                       persons           18,855     49,4.30  _  .
IloptdalWapapWcim          POTO              ~~~4,28      5,761 
Population per nuse5
Poplaon per hospit bed                        *                850         918       1,280      1,329       1,0O0        516
Or rhydyr uon teapy (=de5)               %of;cU                 ..                    30          36          39
Educadto
Grosssnole_trai
ScondY                               %ofscho7igepop.             5           7          8          18          41
Femnale                                                                     4           5         14          3S
Pupilaqcr ratio: pdmay                 pupils perecer           69          62         55          39         37          26
Ppiltaher to: sconday                         *                 22          40         38           _          19
Pups rechlg gade 4                       %ofoo*omt               ..          _          _
Repea  rte pimary                      %ofOmalenl               28          24         25           _
Dliteracy                             %oop.                      ..l  _     72         67          51         39
Female                               %of*in. (ogr 154)                     8 34       79          62         S2
Newspaperclrculatlon                    perthon. pop.            7           3          5          14          _         100
WoWd Dn intenaik onal               -, April IV"



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page One of Two
PREVIOUS ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
1. First Economic Rehabilitation Credit -- US$45 million -- October, 18, 1985.
This credit was an investment credit - and as such did not have specific economic conditionaity.
2. Second Rehabiltation Credit - US$70 million - October 22, 1987.
(i)      Prices of several products to move to a conditioned price system - rather than being fixed.
(ii)     Ministry of Trade to establish GCPI (Bureau to Coordinate Import Programs) to maintain up
to date information on import requirements, assist in mobizing donor aid, and coordinate
procurement.
(iii)     Review possible improvements in the existing foreign exchange retenion system and the
possible establishment of a system whereby individuals with access to foreign exchange can
import goods automaticaly.
(iv) Restrictions on [importing?] paper, fishing gear, textiles, tentalite and citrus to be removed.
(v)      Study and develop detailed rehabilitation plans for five major enterprises.
vi)       Submission of an action plan on the above.
3. Third Reabilitation Credit -US$90 million -- August 4, 1989.
(a)    Negotiation Conditions
(i)      Devaluation of the metical from Mt 645 to Mt 682 per US doLlar.
(ii)     Reduction in the number of products subject to fixed pricing from 25 to 20, including
announcement of the minimum price policy for cashew, cott  copra, groundnuts, sunflower
and mafurra.
(iii)     reduction in the mmiber of products subject to adminisred distributio from 30 to 15.
(iv)     initiation of a tariff review.
(b)    Second Tranche Conditions
(i)      Analysis of the initd effectiveness of the system for non-adminiave allocation of foreign
exchange - and agreemens readhe on the dimanting of the first year safeguards and the
timing and scope of expansion of the mechanims starting in April, 1990.
(ii)      Adequate progress made in the review of the Public Expenditure Program, including
(a)    that a three year invesminit program of core projects stardng in 1990, has been
prepared by the CNP/MP)F, according to estalished criteria;
(b)    that a three year financial plan has been prepared by the CNP/MOF, according to
criteria set out in the Letter of Development Policy;
(c)    a review of on-going. capital intensive projects carried out, and an action pia to
prioritize said projects, prepared.
(iii)     'he minimum pricing system for selected agricultura products functoning and a review of
its results carried out; and fixed prices adjusted, taking account of adjumnens to the
exchange rate and changes in iternational border prices.
(iv)      Completion of the tariff review and measures for tariff simplification agreed for
implementation during 1990.
4. Economic Recovery Credit (Fourth Rebabilitation Credit) - US$170 million - May, 1992
(a)    Negodation Conditions
(i)      List of products to be excluded from IDA financing to be finaied.



- 75 -
(ii)      Terms of reference for technical assistance in the foreign exchange department of BM to be
fmnalized.
(iii)      Central banking act and general banking act to be approved.
(iv)      Finalization of list of firms to be privatized.
(v)       Preparaion of terms of reference for technical assistance in preparing firms for sale.
(vi)      Publishing of Privatization Policy Statement and the decree estabishing the guidelines and
procedures for privatization.
(vii)      Increase in the agricultural budget for local funds to be increased by at least 1.5 percent in
real terms.
(viii)      1992 education and health budget for local funds increased by at least 1 percent and 4.5
percent in real terms, respectively.
(ix)      Provision of audited accounts for the Second and Third Rehabilitation Credits up to 1990.
(b)    Second Tranche Conditions
(i)      Borrower has operated during the preceding six months the revised consolidated market-based
system for the allocation of foreign exchange set forth in the Program in a manner acceptable
to the Association
OD        The Borrower has: (a) completed the separation of the accounts of Banco de Movambique
and Banco Comercial de Mogambique, as set forth in the Program; and (b) finalized a
balce sheet for Banco de Mogambique for 1991.
(iii)      The Borrower has: (a) adopted regulations satisfactory to the Association for licensing new
banks; and (b) implemented procedures satisfactory to the Association for the assessment and
approval of applications for banking licenses submitted to Banco de Mogambique by new
balking instiutions.
iv)       Satisfactory pr gress has been achieved in the implementation of the Borrower's privatization
program in accwodance with the terms and targets set forth in the Program.
(v)       The Borrower has: (a) prepared a three-year investment plan (FY 1992-1994) and a financial
plan (FY 1992-1994) satisfactory to the Association; and (b) increased its budgetary
alocations from domestc sources in real terms from FY 1992 to FY 1993 by at least: (i) I
percent for education; and (ii) 1.5 percent for agriculture; and (iii) 4.5 percent for health.
(vi)      The borrower has completed and submitted to the Association a progress report on land
distribution and transfer of land rights to smallholders and private enterprises throurf
September 30, 1992.
(vii)      The borrow has completed and submitted to the Association a progress report on its financial
management action plan, in accordance with terms and conditions agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.



-76-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
SUIMMARY SrATEMENT OF IDA RERDITS
(AS AT APRIL 30, 1994)
A'moa in US$ mill                                          Lt AM' SPN
(less caneaon)              Un         d    laive              Ratipgs
to appias  prljecdon
CRE8T         FISCAL     BORRO       PURPOSE                                   IDA     U4DISBURSED                    ( $n               Oechla          Bn
NUMBE    YEAR    WER
4 CRnDrrS CLOMSED
C 1610         1935       GOM        Rehabilkazion P wgam                      45.0               0.3                         0.3                1           I
CA 033         1938       GOl        Ecoomc Reibdalz                           111.6              0.0                         0.0       t                    2
C 1841         1933        GOU       Ecoomic Rehabitao                         70.0               0.2                         0.2                2           2
C 2021         1939        GOM       Econmic Rehabiabi                         90.0               1.1                         1.1                2           2
C 1306         1937        GOM       EmicTAllahabilitation                     20.0               2.9                          1.2               2           2
C 1907         1983        GOM       Educaion                                  15.9               3.6                         3.6                1           1
C 1949         1939       GOM        Urban Rehabiliion                         60.0              13.1                         12.2               1           2
C 1989         1989       GWM        HealtMlutrition                           27.0              20.7                         18.4               2           2
C 2033         1939       GOM        HlouehoWdf                                22.0              16.0                         10.5               2           2
C 2066         1990        GOUd      E         FOnomicinucw Managem            21.0              13.1                         9.3                2           2
C 2065         1990       GOM        Transpon Rdabil                           40.0              25.2                         17.4               2           2
Ct201          1990       GOM        Industrl _eaptris                         50.1              51.7                        42.1                3           3
C 2032         1990        GOM       Small & Medium Scal Etep                  32.0              24.1                         13.0               2           2
C 2175         1991        GOM       Agrkultal Rehabdaon                       15.4              12.8                         7.6                2           2
C 2200         1991       GOM        Educan                                    S3.7              49.5                        26.5                3           3
C 23S4         1992       GOM        economic Rcovery                         180.0              52.0                        28.1                1           2
C 2337         1992        GOM       Agcultua Servi Rthabiion                  35.5              34.0                         14.6               2           2
C 2374         1992        GOM       Roads ad OC     Shipp                     74.3              64.1                         4.8                1           2
C 2436         1993        GUM       Human Raources Capact Building            48.6              47.8                         11.1               2           2
C 2437         1993       GOM        tepa/Public Sctor                         15.5              15.4                         3.7                2           2
C 2454         1993       GOM        Mapuf Cidor Revitaion                      9.3               9.3                         3.5                1           2
C 2479         1993       GOM        Rural Rauucuing                           20.0              20.2                         11.0               2           2
C 2437         1993       GOM        Food Securiy                               6.3               6.5                         2.4                2           2
C 2530         1993       GOM        Local GoVWen    Refonn                    23.2              23.2                         1.5                2           2
C 2607         1994        GOM       Financial Sor Caacy Blding                 9.0               9.3                         0.0             1.26         n.A.
C 2599         1994       GOM        Roads Rehbilittion                       ISSO              188.0                         0.0             a.a.        na.
TOTAL = 22 credos                                                             966.3             702.4
TOrAL Dbhrad (IDA)                                 486.05
of which epald                                        0.0
TOTAL now held by IDA.                              1189.9
Amount td of whch repaid.                             0.0
TOTAL Utlieumred
Credk clad.
GOM: Governmet of Mozambiqut.



-77 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
LIST OF CLOSED SAL'S AND SECAL'S IN MOZAMBIQUE
(AS AT APRIL 30, 1994)
LOAN OR             FISCAL    BORROWER              PURPOSE                    IDA    UNDISBURSE      CLOSING DATE
CREDtr NUMBER        YEAR                                                 (USS MILL)
CA0330-MOZ           19SS    MOZAMBIQUE   REHIAWATONI n                        18.10           0.00     06f30I19I9(R)
C18410-MOZ           1988    MOZAMBIQUE   REHABIUTA1ION 11                    69.89            0.00     061301991(R)
TOTAL MCZAMBIQUE                                                               S7.99           0.00
RD6AK  ON D1LMERTATION IUS8
Mozambue's portfolio of IDA-supported projes is relatively now, with dt fifst opration dating to FY87. Although progress in implementatio has
gencraUly ben sadsfaty the performance of disbursement h's been less so. For example, the first mid-tm rview for an invesue  project recently
showed ta while civil woks we  about 2/3 complet, disbursements were only 35 percent of tbe project estimates. A large part of the problem has to
do with e fact tat while the Government has moved quickdy toward a market-based economy, Government agencies and adminstrtive procedures remain
rgely unchanged. This, all IDA-supported projects were manged financially by the centd bank, Bank of Mozambqe (Bad), which needs to be
strengthened. lbe CIR last year detrmned that this was the mam botdeneck to improving disbursements. 'he Bank has taken steps to decentralize the
fincia management of projectsD tfe mplment   agenies troug discussions with BM and conditions of the ongoing Economic Recovety CrediL
Four opemtions are moving slower dtan the averge due to specific problems.
wCONOMIC AD FNNCiAL MANAMNT (FY90). Delays in dib semes resuld  from unfamliity of the implementing unit with procurement
procedures necessary for firly lage conslnt contas and ots of equipment. A recent supervision mission has addressed this problem and disbursements
are expected to improve soon.
INuSI  zrTunw m s usmU             M  (FY90). Delays in this project, the objectve of which was to restructure large public enterprises, are due
prmaily to the Govenments decsion to privatize  ther than restucu   these enterprises. Recent project restuctrng will broaden access to the credit
componen by private firms, resulting in speedier disbusemnen
mEALmnm NuTRrn flPRoinr (FY89). Disbursement will increase in the near future as the project has been restucturd exesivly a year ago, making
funds available for recurrent costa of the MOH.  mminng of the senior staff of the Project Unit in the Ministy of Health (GACOPI) in procurement and
dte prepaon  of standard bid documents has grady faciated the process. Cuffenly, major quantites of phanaceutical and medical supplies. as well
as civil wotks, are being procured.
6MA    Anr  mEM  WCALE W1ENDI3R (FYM). Again, the delays in this case aem connected to up front processing of on-lending applications for small
scale enises. About fourn credit Whcao  have been apprved for about US$5 million equivalent, and another 70 applicatons aem in the pipeline.
Disburem    will show a sigicant increase in the near term.



- 78 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of S
MOZAMDIQUE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
SUMMARY STATEMNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(AS AT APRIL 30, 1994)
'vruvmq        P3AL   (LGTO              TY' EOP3UNE1             IOM          QUffI      TOTAL
NUM_a           Yen                                                         (uss Mu
864-WO          ISS7     L1.    AGIW4SIL                            20           0.0O       2069
3       15-E     £903    SOWA       1uI                             3.50         0.00       3.SO
78MAM            £863    XW XAI OIL   P   BrM                       0.00         7.75       7.75
SrAL ORW  Mfl_TENfS                                                6&19          7.7X      13.94
LusCANCKLAhIs. RePAT
AND 8      XaAN ADZUPIWEM hie                                                 7.75        9.
TOrAL COMWTONT NOll BY tIC                                          4.0          0.00       4.t
TOrAL                                                               0.00         o.0o       0.00
UNDISUVSEI tIC
TOrAL
OUtTIANDIN                                                         4.0          0.00        4.0H
IFC



-79 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
MOZAMBIQUE - BANK GROUP FACT SIEET, FY91-93
IDA LENDING PROGRAM, FY91-93
Poau                Curren                Planued
C4TEGORY                          F91        F92        FY93       FMY4       FM95       FM96      FY97
Comm_Imu,ts (US$ Umi                 54.4      299.0      123.1      422.0       0.0       315.0     220.0
Sector (%)
Agriaulu                            0.0       32.3       16.5        0.0        0.0       44.4       0.0
InyustzyaedFuance                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     - 0.0         0.0       9.1
Public Soctor Management            0.0        0.0        0.0        4.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
| nmstmeturUdban Deevopment         0.0       67.7       26.2       84.7        0.0        0.0      45.5
Humnn Roes                        100.0        0.0       573         0.0        0.0       55.6      45.5
Enviromnemt                         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Mining and= her xauctve             0.0        0.0        0.0       11.3        0.0        0.0       0.0
Multisecto                          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
TOTAL                            100.0      100.0      t00.0      100.0        0.0      100.0     100.0
L.Atdiig Inn   (%)
Adjustment Crets                    0.0       62.2        0.0       47.4        0.0       57.1       0.0
Specified IvestM  Credh/Otder     100.0       37.8      100.0       52.6        0.0       42.9     100.0
TOTAL                            100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       0.0       100.0     100.0
Disbursements OM mll)                92.2       36.3      128.3       90.0      145.0      157.0     160.0
Adjustment Crets                   63.7        3.2       81.5       55.0       90.0       90.0     100.0
Specfic Investment CreditslOdhets  28.S       33.1       46.7       35.0       55.0       67.0       60.0
Repaments (USS mil)                   0.0        0.0       0.0 00               0.0        0.0 0°0
IueraSmm                              2.0        2.3        2.9        3.2       6.8        7.0        7.1



-80 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of S
MOZAMBIQUE - IFC AND MIGA PROGRAM, FY91-93
caegory                                    FW91                      FM                        FY93
IYC approvals (iSS)                         0.0                       0.0                      .3.5
SedOr (%)
Agribsiness                              0.0                       0.0                       0.0
Capitl Mares                             0.0                       0.0                       0.0
ChsmkaWsfertllizes                       0.0                       0.0                       0.0
InrLastruct                              0.0                       0.0                       0.0
_anu~cturing                             0.0                       0.0                       0.0
Oil/Mamdkcturing                         0.0                       0.0                       0.0
Tourism                                  0.0                       0.0                      100.0
TOTAL                                  0.0                       0.0                      100.0
Invamel  uwm  (%)
Loas                                     0.0                       0.0                      100.0
iquily                                   0.0                       0.0                       0.0
Quasidequity                             0.0                       0.0                       0.0
TOTAL                                   0.0                       0.0                      100.0
MIGA Guarste (US$  il                       0.0                       0.0                       0.0



=
-                  S
.- I-
1Ji      *1'        'Ii
I                  2.         g. bd  a
V.                 I
I                                I
I                            at
______ ______i--I
.
  .                 v.8 .8                 I.
II      §j.        iiIII  I.  t  I
Ii Ii Z        a        .g  fill"'    S  &
a
ii  I  I    I            lii
V.i           V.                      3
11      1.                           me
- - a
 .            m
iI3i.iiIii,i F:; 1                0
*0  10                                  I
                           II
I       a
a       .     .     .    i..
a   --



-82 -
(C)      Enlace G_ment M_mgm                 Impv Maeu_ of TA                              Donor/Govemme  seminar on Technical
Capity                                                                           AssSIStCe (FY94)
Reform Civi Srice (deompr  salaries,         Civ Service Review (FY6).
review saffn   d   ,tnctim, em)              Public Seco Mnagemen Project (FY98)
m.   IwMP                 OF 7 F__I V  
POVER    REDUMCYON                                                                ___
Impe e      ve es of geted poveaty           Poverty Review (FY94)
redaction bitventions.
Mn    socl sdaey n.a         out             PFP (F94. FY95. FY96)
.EmergencyProgram in line with agrital
recovery.
Maitain higb lves of ivem        in hma      Realm   Project FY95)
resoures.                                    Educaon Sector Study (FY95)
Maapower Study (FY97)
Social Sector Rebabitraon Project (FY97)
Rdabiliate udan housig.                      Urban Water Swdy (FY94)
Urban   Project (FY97)
IV.      0To         Jssurs
Envimt                              Redc= enviromental deg     o                 Evrom  sma  Paper (FY94
NEAP (FY95)
nvr_omnt Support Prjct (FY96)
-- .~



I~~~~~~~ j .                            l _
L~~ <M
k           | 8 |  2   ~~~~~~~i  8      *11
I       -.           N~~~~~~~~
U.~~~~~~~-t 



-84 -
ANNEX VIII
Page I of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC)
Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input
1.           Reviews of the state owned commercial banks, later in the supervision process, will be
measured against their success in achieving agreed performance benchmarks, as identified in their
respective Strategic Plans and as agreed between the Government of Mozambique (the owner) and IDA.
Progress on privatization of the two state owned banks will also be reviewed carefully during each
supervision mission - with every effort being made to ensure significant progress toward this goal by the
end of the program period.
2.           Supervision of the credit is most likely to be undertaken in conjunction with the
supervision of the Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit (FS CB) given the synergies between the two
projects. In addition, close coordination will take place between the supervision missions of the SERC
and those of the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring project - which is dealing with the privatization of
large state owned companies.
Supervision from the Resident Mission
3.           Given the highly supervision intensive nature of the Second Economic Recovery Credit,
emphasis will be given to supervising most aspects of the program from the Resident Mission in Maputo.
A senior staff member in the Resident Mission will be given primary responsibility for supervision of the
project, with back up support from Headquarters and from consultants.
4.           This decentralized supervision will make it possible to have a quick turn around on no-
objections, procurement and disbursement issues. As implementation capacities are known to be limited
in Mozambique, it will be particularly important to have such a capacity based locally, to assist in
speeding up project implementation.
Borrower's Contribution to SupervWion
5.           The central bank will take a lead role in supervising the implementadon of ftis program.
The members of the Board of the Bank of Mozambique, chaired by the Govemor of the central bank (Mr.
A. Maleiane), fully support the program of financial reform and are committed to its execution.
6.           The central bank will also be responsible for supervising and incorporating the Ministry
of Finance in those aspects of the program with direct relevance to Ministry staff - particularly those
issues pertaining to the privatization of state owned enterprises through UTRE (responsible for privatizing
large, strategic, state owned companies) and the smaller privatization units within the various Govermnent
departnents.



- 85 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
7.           The central bank, in conjuniction with the Ministry of Finance, will also be responsible
for coordinating the activities of the commercial banks in their program of downsizing and privatization.
Banco de MoNambique will also coordinate, where necessary, the activities of other financial institutions
in the economy (such as the insurance companies).
Organization and Tmiing of Supervision Missions
8.           Review missions will be led by the SERC Task Manager (Senior Financial Economist)
and will include staff and/or consultants who are specialists in areas of privatization, finance, procurement
and disbursement. As indicated, due to the complimentary nature of this credit with the Financial Sector
Capacity Building Credit and the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Credit, as well as other IDA projects,
close cooperation will be maintained with the task managers for those projects 'vithin the AF6 (Southem
Africa) Departnent.
9.           Given the close coincidence of interest in central banking and monetary policy matters,
close coordination and cooperation will also be maintained with the International Monetary Fund -
particularly with respect to issues relating to the conduct of monetary policy, banking restructuring, and
central bank strengthening. Where appropriate, coordination will also be undertaken with relevant donors
(the Governments of Switzerland, Denmark and the United Kingdom - in particular).
10.   At least, three supervision missions per year are a iticipated - with supervision heavier in the
earlier years of the project. The initial two missions will take place in September and December 1994.
An important task of the initial two missions will be ensuring that the Government has moved quickly
toward achieving the conditions required for second tranche release of the SERC credit. Second tranche
release is currently tentatively scheduled for January 1995. It will aiso be necessary during these first
two supervision missions to ensure that as much of the required technical assistance, as is possible, is in
place. In particular, work on the two strategic plans for Banco Comercial de Mocambique and Banco
Popular de Desenvolvimento should be completed, and agreement reached on an Action Plan for the two
banks. It will also be important to ensure that Banco Comercial de Mocambique has made significant
progress toward entering into an arrangement (twinning or otherwise) with external commercial bank
management support.
11.   Supervision during the first half of 1995 will focus on meeting the conditions of third tranche
release in a timely and effective manner. Supervision missions will also involve discussion with potential
foreign and domestic bankers - to assess their interest in entering into the Mozambique market -- as well
as the interest of potential foreign investors in the state owned companies which are currently being
privatized.



