Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18078
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2628-MZ)
June 25, 1998
Mozambique Resident Mission
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit is metical (MT); plural - meticais; rate per US$
1993                    5,800
1994                    7,190
1995                   11,300
1996                   11,900
1997 (August)          11,700
1997                   11,700
1998 (April)           11,850
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                    African Development Bank
AGRICOM                State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BM                     Banco de Mogambique/Bank of Mozambique (central bank)
BCI                    Banco Comercial e de Investimentos
BCM                    Banco Comercial de Mo,ambique/Commercial Bank of Mozambique
BFE                    Banco de Fomento e Exterior
BIM                    Banco Intemacional de Mo9ambique
BPD                    Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento/Popular Development Bank
BSTM                   Banco Standard Totta de Mo,ambique/Standard Totta Bank
CG                     Consultative Group
ERC                    Economic Recovery Credit
ERP                    Economic Rehabilitation Program
ESAF                   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSCB                   Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
IDA                    International Development Association
IERP                   Industrial Enterprises Restructuring Program
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
INE                    Instituto Nacional de Estatistica
MICTUR                 Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
PFP                    Policy Framework Paper
SERC                   Second Economic Recovery Credit
TERC                   Third Economic Recovery Credit
ULC                    United Leasing Company
UTRE                   Enterprise Restructuring Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President           Callisto Madavo
Director                 Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager           Thomas Allen
Technical Manager        Ataman Aksoy
Task Team Leader         Simon Bell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND ECONOIMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDEIT 2628-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................... i-iv
Part I:    PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A.  Background..  ................                                                 I
B.  Achievement of Program Objectives .1
C.  Achievement of Program Objectives                         .5
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Program .11
E.  Project Sustainability                             .II
F.  Borrower Performance.12
G. Bank Performance .13
H. Assessment of Outcome .13
I.     Future Operations ..............                  ,                        14
J.  Key Lessons Learned .15
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................              17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................ 18
Table 2: Related Bank Operations ................................................ 19
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................ 20
Table 4: Disbursements ................................................ 20
Table 5: Key Indicators: Actuals and Projected, 1994-96 .........................................  21
Table 6: Economic Performance, 1987 - 1997 .................................. .............. 22
Table 7: Social Indicators, 1993, 1994 and 1995 ..............................................   23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................ 24
Table 9: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inputs ................................................   25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions   .....................   ........................... 26
Part III BORROWER ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................   27
This document has a restricted distribuition and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MOZAMBIQUE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (SERC)
(CREDIT 2628-MOZ)
IlPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Economic Recovery
Credit (SERC) in Mozambique -- for which Credit 2628-MOZ, in an amount of SDR 141.7 million
(US$200.0 million equivalent), was approvedl on June 16, 1994 and made effective on July 19,
1994.
The Credit closed on August 30, 1997, as envisaged in the original Board documentation.
The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by June 1995. The second
tranche was released on July 24, 1995 and was fully disbursed by August 1996. The third tranche
was released on October 28, 1996 and was fully disbursed by November, 1996 -- nine months in
advance of the closing date of the credit - due to changes in the disbursement criteria for
adjustment lending. Cofinancing for the credit was provided by Great Britain (L1 0.0 million
pounds sterling, US$15.5 million equivalent), Switzerland (10.0 million Swiss francs, US$7.5
million equivalent), and Denmark (40.0 million Danish kroner, US$6.5 million equivalent).
This ICR was prepared by Simon Bell, Senior Financial Economist and Task Manager,
AFMMQ/AFTPI and Carolina Machado, AFTMI. This report was reviewed by Phyllis Pomerantz
(Country Director for Mozambique), Atam;an Aksoy (Technical Manager, Macroeconomics I,
Southern Africa), Paul Murgatroyd (Technical Anchor, Financial Sector, PSF, Africa Region), and
lain Christie and Brian Levy (Technical Anchors, Private Sector, PSF, Africa Region). Very
useful comments were also provided by Arnold Sowa and Gabrielle Rooz (AFTP 1), Manuela Ferro
(AFTM1), and Jim Coates (Resident Mission, Mozamnbique). The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR with its own evaluation of the program.
Preparation of this ICR began in November 1997. It is based on discussions with Bank
staff, Government officials, and on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, and other
materials in the project files.



MOZAMdBIQUE
SECOND ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 21628-MOZ)
Evaluation Summary
i. The period 1992 to 1994 marked a turning point in the development history of Mozambique.
Beginning in October 1992, the Government and the rebel movement signed a peace agreement
which led to the cessation of hostilities which had plagued Mozambique over much of the post-
Independence period. This permitted an almost instant return to more normal economic life -- as
demonstrated by the very high growth rate experienced in 1993 as refugees and displaced persons
returned to their villages and re-commenced agricultural production. A United Nations peace
keeping force monitored the peace process, the demobilization of soldiers and the transition to the
country's first multi-party democratic elections. This process was successfully finalized in
October 1994 resulting in the establishment of a young but thriving democracy. The pre-
conditions for lasting peace had been established and hence the capacity of the nation to be
developed as a coherent whole. The political transition had been achieved -- now it was time to
secure the macro-economic transition.
ii. These broad changes largely shaped the objectives of the Second Economic Recovery Credit
(SERC), which was approved in June 1994. If peace could be sustained, economic growth was
expected to increase sharply over the short to medium term mainly because of the continued
resumption of agricultural activities. However, it was necessary to ensure that growth could be
sustained over the longer term if there was to be, an impact on reducing poverty.
iii. The interesting anomaly of Mozambique was that it had managed to sustain relatively high,
albeit uneven, growth despite the fact that it had not achieved macro-economic stability. However,
such a situation was not sustainable over the longer term and Mozambique really needed to achieve
macro stability if it was to sustain high rates of growth. A major source of macro-economic
instability emanated from two interlinked sources -- a state owned financial system which operated
on a non-commercial basis, and an inefficient and publicly owned industrial sector. This resulted
in monetary leakages through the state owned banks to the state owned enterprises. As these loans
were frequently not repaid, this led to a vicious cycle of illiquidity and further money creation.
iv. Dealing with the problems of the banking sector was critical to achieving macro stability.
However, as a financial sector does not operate in a vacuum, it was equally important to deal with
the "real sector" problems plaguing the borrowing clientele of the banks. These two issues helped
set the agenda for the SERC in terms of bank restructuring/privatization and the rapid privatization
of the state owned industrial parastatals -- so as to yield the twin benefits of macroeconomic
stability (arising from tighter macro-monetary control) and more efficient, private sector driven,
industrial growth. These reforms would be supplemented by central bank strengthening and
monetary policy development -- as well as on-going fiscal reforms based on initiatives commenced
under earlier adjustment operations.
v. Program Design and Objectives. The SERC supported policy reforms aimed at: (i)
continuing sound macroeconomic managernent -- specifically measures to improve the
management of public expenditures and external aid; (ii) taking further steps to strengthen the
central bank to enable it to play a leadership role in areas of monetary policy, monetary
management, and supporting the development of a sound and efficiently operated banking system;
1



(iii) restructuring the financial sector and, in particular, dealing with the problems of the state
owned banks; and (iv) taking the next steps in the enterprise reform agenda including the removal
of subsidies, privatization, and restoring the financial soundness of some of the large public sector
monopolies. The implementation of these reforms required technical assistance support, which
was provided through a companion IDA project -- the Financial Sector Capacity Building (FSCB)
credit.
vi. The SERC was the fourth adjustment credit to Mozambique approved by the Bank. Like the
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) before it and the Third Economic Recovery Credit (TERC) after
it, the operation was conceived as part of a sequentially designed program of support -- with
important elements being built upon and developed over the course of the three operations.
vii. In addition, the SERC was one component of a broad international program of support. In
conjunction with the IMF's programs the SERC played an important role in mobilizing other
external aid, particularly import support funds. Review of the Government's reform program also
took place within the context of the annual Consultative Group meetings. Continuing high levels
of project and balance of payment support, in the face of declining levels of aid world wide, bear
testimony to this coordination effort and the strong commitment of the Mozambican Government
to real economic reform.
viii. Results of the SERC Program. Overall the SERC was very successful in achieving its twin
aims of monetary policy stability/financial sector reform and greater private sector involvement
within the economy. This has, in turn, engendered and supported the macro-economic stability
which had eluded the Government under previous structural adjustment operations. After initial
failures to successfully restructure the state owned commercial banks, the Government decision to
fast track their privatization in 1995, marked an important turning point in the overall reform
program. The privatization of Banco Comercial de Mocambique in July 1996 resulted in
significantly slower money supply growth and a sharply reduced rate of inflation. These
developments fed through into a stable currency. Only interest rates have taken time to fall into
line with other macroeconomic variables. This accentuates the need for further financial sector
deepening and broadening.
ix. The subsequent privatization of the smaller state owned bank, Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento (BPD), in September 1997 completed the bank privatization process,
consolidating the stabilization achieved thus far, and resulting in a completely privately owned
banking system -- in marked contrast to the state dominated banking system which had existed
several years before. In addition, increased entry has resulted in six additional financial institutions
(and a further three banks are expected to commence operations in 1998) which are competing for
banking business and providing better quality products and services. The transformation of the
financial sector has been considerable.
x. Given severe limitations, in terms of both financial and human resources, the Government has
pledged its commitment to strong private sector led growth. Commitment to privatization resulted
in 48 large scale enterprises and almost 900 small and medium scale enterprises being privatized
over the period 1992 to 1997. The enterprise privatization program and enhanced macroeconomic
stability will now make strong private sector led growth a more attainable goal. Indeed, increased
private sector involvement in the economy has already resulted in faster economic growth.
Whereas GDP growth averaged 6 percent per annum in real terms from 1991 to 1995; this
increased to 6.4 percent in 1996; a projected 12.5 percent in 1997; and expectations of around 10
ii



percent in 1998. Summary macro-economic d[ata is provided in Tables 5 and 6 of the Statistical
Annex.
xi. The central bank has also emerged as a stronger, more independent, institution over the past
three years. Considerable legal reform has been undertaken within the sector -- the most important
of which have been the Banking Act and the Foreign Exchange Act. Steps have been taken to
strengthen the bank supervision department and to increase its capacity to supervise and regulate a
private owned banking system. The central bank is now producing timely, annual central bank
reports, which include audited accounts for thie bank. Lastly, the Economic Studies Department
and the Credit Department are involved in producing quarterly statistical bulletins for distribution;
have boosted their research and policy capacities; and are now more actively issuing Treasury Bills
as an alternative financial instrument for sale to the banks.
xii. Support to the social sectors has also been better than originally envisaged under the program.
Benefiting from a Peace Dividend, resulting from lower levels of military expenditure, the
Government was able to increase expenditures to the social sectors by 44 percent in real terms in
1995. Further support has come in the form of the debt relief fund under which the Government
has pledged to reallocate any freed up resources (contributed to by donors), to the social sectors.
Although simple social safety nets were maintained, they were not without their drawbacks and
were limited in their coverage. A greater benefit to poverty reduction resulted from the cessation
of war, the restoration of agricultural activity., increased marketing and trading activity, and more
liberalized pricing policies for agricultural products. Employment generation in urban areas
resulting from increased investment in micro-enterprises as well as mega projects will also be
important in helping to address urban poverty.
xiii. Mozambique's accomplishment, however, must be viewed in the context of the enormity of
the problems facing Mozambique; (1) Mozambique remains one of the poorest countries in the
world, with a very small domestic market vwith a restricted purchasing capacity; (2) the human
resource base of the country is extremely fragile -- with literacy rates of only 30 percent; (3) there
has been a serious decline in the capacities of the Government as many of the best and brightest
within the civil service have left to join the rapidly expanding and significantly more remunerative
private sector; (4) Mozambique remains a difficult and bureaucratic place in which to undertake
business -- as recently catalogued in the Foreign Investment Advisory Services Red Tape analysis;
(5) linked to excessive bureaucracy and a poorly paid civil service, there is a growing concern over
corruption; (6) Mozambique has a weak legal system and a poorly performing court system which
requires substantial strengthening and modernization; (7) one of the highest levels of aid
dependency in the world makes Mozambique particularly vulnerable to shifts in donor policies and
at times reduces the scope for independent decision-making by the Government. Last, although
not a weakness, the sustainability of the reform process is an area of concern. The recent positive
economic developments do not have a long history. It is critical that Mozambique sustain and
consolidate the macroeconomic stability achieved to date.
xiv. A key feature accounting for the overall positive outcome of the SERC was the Government's
continued strong commitment to the implementation of the reform program. The Borrower was
actively involved in the design and implementation of the Credit, and clearly demonstrated
ownership of the program. Of particular importance, the Government's commitment to reform was
sustained and the implementation of the reform program since the Credit closed continues to be
further consolidated. Despite this strong Government commitment, progress was, at times slow, as
. . 



reflected by the fact that both the second and third tranches of funding were delayed beyond their
originally scheduled dates (by 4 months, and 11 months respectively).
The summary ratings (Table 1) are:
*    Achievement of objectives:   substantial
*    Program sustainability:    likely
*    Bank performance:          satisfactory
*    Borrower performance:      satisfactory
*    Assessment of outcome:     satisfactory
xv. The main conclusions and lessons are:
*   Borrower ownership of the adjustment program is criticalfor success. The Government's
strong commitment and ownership of the reforms supported by the SERC, ensured that
even politically difficult decisions could be carried out.
*   Financial Sector Reform and macroeconomic stability are frequently strongly inter-
related. The macro-economic stability which resulted from the privatization of the state
banks indicated just how strong the macroeconomic linkages were with the banking
system. The monetary leakages through the state banking system appear to have been the
main source of instability.
*    Some flexibility within adjustment programs (by both the Government and the Bank) is
important Initial resistance to privatize the state banks was overcome during the period of
the SERC and wrs replaced by a program of full bank privatization. This required changes
to the way in which elements of the adjustment program were implemented. Subsequent
problems within the banks, in the lead up to their privatization, also required consultation
and cooperation to limit the damage that could have resulted from an even greater loss of
macro monetary control. Field based supervision from the Mozambique resident mission
greatly assisted this process.
*   Reforms must be undertaken in a fully integrated manner. The interlinkages between
monetary and fiscal policy are critical and must be built into adjustment operations.
However, the interlinkages between the financial sector, private sector, and the macro-
economy are sometimes less obvious. A well rounded and integrated program which takes
these interlinkages fully into account will stand the greatest chance of success.
*   Administrative issues were just as important as economic policy issues in the adjustment
program. The changes in disbursement arrangemeiLts introduced under the SERC were
important -- not just in an administrative sense -- but also in terms of supporting the
development of a deeper market in foreign exchange.
iv



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    A difficult transition to independence from Portugal in 1975 was closely followed by the
introduction of a system of central planning and civil war. Central planning, and the sudden departure of
many Portuguese settlers, resulted in a large share of the economy falling into the hands of the state --
where inefficient, and frequently inappropriate, rnanagement resulted in sharply declining productivity
and commercial orientation. The civil war made much of the countryside ungovernable. Agricultural
production plummeted while much of the productive, social, and physical infrastructure was either
destroyed or deteriorated at an alarming rate. Bly the mid-1980s, with the infrastructure base largely
destroyed, GDP sharply reduced and declining, exports one-third their 1980 post-independence peak,
debt at unsustainable levels, and poverty affecting most of the population, the Government recognized the
need for radical changes in policy.
2.    Consequently, the Government embarked upon a reform program in 1986 which aimed at
reversing the decline in output and restoring orderly financial relationships with trading partners and
creditors. A series of Bank adjustment operations supported the progressive reduction in the massive
distortions which existed (particularly in prices and the exchange rate), decreasing administrative
controls, rehabilitating state enterprises, mobilizing domestic resources, improving the sectoral allocation
of expenditures, tightening credit policy and iniitiating a public enterprise restructuring program, while
also focusing on trade reform issues. The Ec,snomic Recovery Credit (ERC) (FY92), immediately
proceeding the SERC, supported the early phase of financial sector reform (particularly the separation of
BM and BCM), as well as the further integration and liberalization of the exchange rate.
3.    Mozambique's successful political transition over the period 1992 to 1994 -- from the signing of
the Peace Accord to the holding of the first multi-party democratic elections -- was an important
prerequisite for a successful economic transition. The cessation of hostilities permitted:  the re-
commencement of agricultural activities; the relhabilitation of economic and social infrastructure; and a
growing investor interest in Mozambique by regional and international investors. These developments
meant that Mozambique could at last achieve the economic transition which was now required.
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OB.JECTIVES
4.    Nonetheless, the necessary pre-condition of peace was not, by itself, sufficient to achieve the
macro-economic stabilization which could sustain high levels of growth over the medium to long term.
And high levels of sustained growth were imperative if this poorest country in the world was ever going
to deal meaningfully with poverty alleviation, huge fiscal imbalances, and low export levels which made
the Government highly donor dependent on botJh balance of payments support and investment programs
to support the overall budget. It was also important to focus on some of the important leakages within the
economy which were causing the macro-economic instability -- resulting in high levels of inflation,
exchange rate instability, and ultimately resulting in lower economic growth. As a reasonable degree of
fiscal discipline had already been achieved, monetary policy increasingly became the focus of attention,
and the leakages through the state owned banking system to the state owned parastatals was identified as
the main culprit for this continuing instability. Supporting a program of inter-linked financial sector and
private sector reformn, while also continuing some of the fiscal policy reforms commenced under previous
adjustment operations, was seen has having the best chance of achieving macroeconomic stability -- and
thereby setting the stage for long term sustained growth within a more stable environment.



2
5.    The following policy reform areas were therefore supported by the SERC:
(i)    Management of Public Expenditures
(a)    Budgetary Policies. The Goverment was to: (i) remove remaining price controls
(conditioned prices) on eight goods; (ii) allocate no more than 1 percent of gross domestic
product for subsidies to publicly owned enterprises.
(b)    Poverty Focused Expenditures. To help address pressing poverty issues, the Government
was to: (i) continue the social safety net programs which targeted the poorest urban households;
and (ii) at least maintain budgetary allocations for education and health in real terms.
(ii)   Monetary Policy and Strengthening the Central Bank
(a)    Monetary Policy. The Central Bank was to: (i) introduce a broad central bank rediscount
rate policy which would replace overdraft and other types of borrowing from the central bank;
(ii) produce audited financial statements for the first time in 1993, and annually thereafter; (iii)
design and launch a pilot Treasury Bill auction.
(b)    Foreign Exchange Laws and Regulations. The central bank also agreed to: (i) draft a
new Foreign Exchange Act which provided the legal basis for a modem system of foreign
exchange control; (ii) develop a supportive system of foreign exchange regulations which
provided details on the implementation of the law; and (iii) maintain the official exchange rate at
a market-related level.
(c)    Strengthen Banking Supervision. In an effort to strengthen bank supervision, Banco de
Mocambique was required to (i) undertake an initial on-site examination of all the banks
operating in Mozambique -- with technical support provided under the Financial Sector Capacity
Building Credit (a companion credit to the SERC).
(iii)   The Financial Sector
(a)    Restructuring the State Owned Banks. In the absence of a Government commitment to
privatization, the SERC sought to develop a better system of internal and external governance,
and a stronger commercial orientation, within the state owned banks. To achieve this, it was
agreed that the two state banks (BCM and BPD) would: (i) develop mutually agreed, and
commercially oriented Strategic Plans; (ii) transfer bad loans to a"collection only" unit with no
further lending being provided to any non-performing customers; (iii) bring in new interim
management to run the largest of the state owned banks.
(b)   Increasing Banking Competition. The central bank undertook to: (i) permit new banking
entry; and (ii) revise the system of allocating credit ceilings to take away existing historical biases
and provide greater incentives to deposit mobilization.
(iv)   Enterprise Reform
(a)    State enterprises. The Government agreed to address the problems of the large service
parastatals which were also non-perforrning borrowers within the banking system. Specifically it
agreed to: (i) establish and monitor an Action Plan for reforming the national airlines (LAM); (ii)
settle the debts of the Agricultural Marketing Board (AGRICOM) with the banking system; and



(iii) report on progress made in restructuring the national railways (CFM) as well as dealing with
its banking system debt.
(b)   Privatization. The Government also undertook to: (i) privatize at least seven state owned
enterprises from a list of twelve big enterprises with large non-performing loans.
Evaluation of Credit Objectives
6.    As a result of focusing on fiscal reform in previous adjustment operations most of the more
egregious fiscal imbalances had been, at least partially, addressed by the time that the SERC was
designed.  What was becoming clearer was that monetary policy issdes were more important
determinants of macroeconomic instability and that the transmission mechanism of credit creation from
the central bank through the state owned banks to the state owned parastatals was a major source of
monetary leakage and an important driving force of inflation. Dealing in a decisive manner with the state
owned banks, while simultaneously strengthening the central bank, were therefore two interlinked and
important priorities. However, the financial sector reflected the very poor underlying health of the state
owned enterprises to which it lent. Therefore, reforming the banking sector could not be undertaken in
isolation from enterprise reform. Previous attempts at banking reform and restructuring had not
succeeded because of this.
7.    An on-going Bank operation (the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Program -- Cr. No. 20810)
supported the main elements of the private sector reform program, including privatization and the
creation of a more business friendly environment within which the private sector could operate. There
was, however, a need to develop a companion project which could support the financial reform elements
of the SERC program. To this end, the Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit was designed to
support central bank strengthening, restructuring within the commercial banks, the development of better
accounts, and so on. This project was approved several months after the SERC.
8.    Management of Public Expenditures. 'These elements of the program, while important, do not
appear to be as integrated into the SERC program as the other three main elements of the credit. They
did, nonetheless, continue a program of budgetary reform which had focused on removing price controls
and reducing subsidies to the state owned enterprises. By the time of the SERC most controlled prices
had been removed. However, a system of "price conditioning" remained which involved post-review of
prices set in the market. The removal of the system of conditioned prices on these last eight products
largely removed the last remaining elements of price control on goods. Price controls on services,
however, did remain. Reducing the level of subsidies to publicly owned enterprises was a measure of
fiscal control. Although important, this condition was likely to work counter to the other elements of the
program which sought to achieve greater efficiency and commercial orientation within the banking
system as, with a system dominated by state banlks, the removal of subsidies was likely to force publicly
owned enterprises into the banking system to obtain loans which were unlikely to be repaid. Lastly, in an
effort to ensure adequate expenditures on the social sectors and the provision of some basic social safety
nets, the program supported the maintenance of budgetary allocations for health and education and the
continuation of the social safety net program to the 60,000 (frequently female headed) poorest households
in urban areas.  Simply maintaining expenditures within these important sectors was clearly a
compromise -- but one that was considered warranted as Mozambique entered a period of high, and
frequently unforeseen, expenditures on elections, resettlement, de-mobilization, mine clearing, and other
"special activities" during 1994 and 1995. A commitment to maintain social sector expenditures and the
then existing level of the social safety net ensured the maintenance of the status quo during a difficult and
uncertain fiscal period with heavy demands upoII the public purse. This was made doubly important by



4
the fact that there was increasing evidence that expenditures in these areas were shrinking in real terms in
the face of increasing expenditure demands from other sectors.
9.    Monetary Policy and Strengthening the Central Bank. With the separation of Banco de
Mogambique into its central and commercial banking components, there was a clear and pressing need to
strengthen its core central banking functions. The credit focused on three main central banking areas: (a)
monetary policy; (b) foreign exchange; and (c) bank supervision. The monetary policy elements of
introducing a proper discount rate policy and producing externally audited central bank accounts were
both important and necessary objectives in developing better monetary policy in Mozambique. The
introduction of a Treasury Bill auction, however, may have been somewhat over ambitious from the
perspective of 1994. An unhealthy and monopolistic banking sector, dominated by the state, would
hardly have created the sort of competitive market for Treasury Bills, with market driven interest rates,
that this component was clearly seeking to achieve.
10.   Financial Sector Reform. Despite an earlier recommendation in a 1992 World Bank Financial
Sector Study to either liquidate or privatize the two state owned banks, the Government was clearly not
prepared for either eventuality at the time of the SERC preparation. It was argued that liquidation was
impractical as these two banks virtually represented the entire banking sector, and privatization was
simply not an acceptable alternative to the Government at the time. Consequently, the credit settled for a
recognized "second best" alternative of trying to financially and managerially restructure the two state
owned banks, and put in place measures which would limit their ability to lose further public funds or
contribute further to monetary instability. Hence, the development of strategic plans, the transfer of bad
loans, and the injection of interim management were all elements which were employed under the SERC.
Meanwhile, the banking sector was opened up to foreign competition and new banking entrants. In
retrospect, restructuring and recapitalization of state owned banks did not represent a useful utilization
of public funds. Increasingly, the evidence from Africa shows that restructuring state owned banks has
only a very small chance of being successful. Even bringing in outside management to operate state
owned banks has only had very limited success. On the other hand, opening up the financial sector to
competition would clearly help to increase sector efficiency and competitiveness while eroding the
monopoly position of the largest state owned bank.  Mozambique's experience with two re-
capitalizations/restructurings in the early 1990s and in 1994 resulted in a lot of public money being put
into institutions which subsequently lost these new resources -- and generally ended up even worse off
than they had been prior to the recapitalization.
11.   Enterprise Sector Reform. Although enterprise reform had commenced under the auspices of
other projects, its progress had been very slow. This was partly occasioned by the need to clarify the
legal situation of "intervened" enterprises (abandoned enterprises taken over by Government at
independence but which legally still belonged to their initial owners). A 1991 Privatization Law helped
establish the legal framework for privatization, and the establishment of a Unit within the Ministry of
Finance to privatize state owned enterprises (UTRE) provided the administrative framework for the task
ahead. By 1994, when the SERC was being prepared, UTRE had completed much of the preparatory
work involved in its own establishment and was ready to start preparing dossiers for the enterprises which
were to be privatized. In addition, in 1994, the IERP project was restructured to allow UTRE to focus
only on privatization, which helped move the program forward faster. The requirement that seven large
scale enterprises be privatized prior to second tranche release seems to have been a reasonable target.
Meanwhile, dealing with the larger state owned service parastatals (the airlines, the railways, and the
agricultural marketing board) added an important new dimension to the enterprise reform program.
Identified as large, poorly performing borrowers within the banking system, these large service
parastatals were themselves targeted for reform and restructuring.



5
C.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
12.   The macro-economic and structural objectives of the Credit were "more than" achieved. For the
first time in over a decade of adjustment, the entire macroeconomy stabilized. Inflation fell from a high
of over 70 percent to single digits in the first half of 1997 (Chart 3, page 21); the national currency
stabilized against major international currencies (Chart 4), while appreciating against most regional
currencies; growth accelerated from 4.5 percent to 12.5 percent per annum (Chart 1); exports increased
by over 40 percent; and foreign investors began to take a more serious look at the Mozambican economy
(with real FDI levels more than doubling over this period). This transformation has also included: a
foreign exchange system which is market determined; a commercial banking sector which is now totally
owned by the private sector; a state enterprise sector which has been largely privatized; and improved
social conditions for the poor as budgeted social sector expenditures increased well beyond levels
envisaged under the SERC program. These achievements resulted from a sequence of important events
leading from the Peace Agreement, the demobilization, the first multi-party elections, and the
appointment of reform minded individuals to critical ministerial posts within Government. The following
sections highlight the main accomplishments and concerns of the program.
13.   Economic growth. Real GDP
CHART 1: GDP Growth in Mozambi,                growth accelerated over the period
1994 to 1998, in percent              1991 to 1995 to reach 6 percent per
annum on average compared to 5.1
14                                                 percent per annum  over the period
12         - --------------------- ----------      1987-91. However, this masks some
0                                    - -   ,       very important annual and sectoral
- ----------------------------  -------------- --------variations.  For   exam ple,   in    1993,  the
8_ 6        -                                     first full year of the peace, GDP growth
6                       --is estimated to have been 19 percent as
3§ 4                -------- -------~~~~~~~/ ~~~------------------------  refugees and displaced persons returned
2             -        -        -to their villages and agricultural
|     o    l          l         E     _           production recommenced. On the other
I 1994   1995       1996      1997      1998      hand, over the same period, industrial
year                         production was in sharp decline. This
process was reversed in 1995, however,
when manufacturing output increased
by 18.5 percent as the privatization of large industrial companies led to substantial increases in output.
Increases in some sub-sectors of industry were even more dramatic. The transport and commercial
sectors also experienced strong growth over much of this period. Growth was 6.4 percent in 1996 and
estimated to be 12.5 percent in 1997. As a result of a good agricultural season, the restoration of the
powerlines from the Cahora Bassa Dam and the recommencement of electricity exports in 1997/98, and
continued strong FDI -- the rate of growth is anticipated to remain high at around 10 percent in 1998 (see
Chart 1 above). The most important developments, to date, have been in the agricultural sector where
grain harvests have increased to post-independence highs. Agricultural growth is important, of course,
for the wide range benefits it provides to a large proportion of the total population and therefore the
potential poverty alleviation impact that it can confer.
14.   Statistics. An important element of the SERC program was to develop a more effective
monitoring of economic data -- as well as seekitng to improve the quality of the data which is collected.
African statistical systems are notoriously poor in providing good quality, timely data and Mozambique is
no exception. Monitoring of economic information from the Resident Mission, did improve over this



6
period and, more importantly, steps were taken to improve the quality of the macroeconomic data which
was produced. A small project was begun with the National Statistics Institute (INE), using funds from
the IERP, to strengthen statistical capabilities (one of the first IDA projects of its kind in Africa) and is
now bearing some initial fruit in terms of better quality and more timely data. Further developments over
the course of 1998 should result in this capacity being even further strengthened as the INE embarks upon
a twinning arrangement with Statistics Sweden in combination with Statistics Norway.
15.   Management of Public Expenditures. The removal of controls on the last eight goods which
were subject to conditioned prices and the control of subsidies to state enterprises were both readily
achieved and resulted in a more market oriented economy. However, the other two objectives under this
component achieved very different results from what had originally been intended -- both negative and
positive. The maintenance of the social safety net system as a tool of poverty alleviation was marred by
mismanagement within the administration of this scheme which resulted in a less than optimal social
safety net program. Further design work to ensure that funds really do accrue to those most in need is
required if this is to be true tool in support of poverty alleviation. Proper central controls over the use of
the funds is also a pre-requisite.
16.   On the other hand, the requirement that budget expenditures for health and education be at least
maintained in real terms was more than met over the course of 1995. Donor goodwill in sponsoring
many of the extraordinary expenditures associated with the transition period, in combination with the
realization of a peace dividend arising from the demobilization of the Government and rebel armies and
the reconstitution of a much smaller armed force (resulting in reduced military expenditure of 37 percent
in real terms), meant that there was a one time opportunity to increase expenditures to these two sectors
by 44 percent in real terms. Although increases of this magnitude were impossible to repeat, the
Government's recognition of the importance of the social sectors for long term development and poverty
alleviation was further reflected in the establishment of a Debt Alleviation Fund whereby donors who
provide funds for debt service payments were ensured that freed-up resources would be allocated to the
social sectors. This fund is currently being supported by several bi-lateral donors and ensures a
continued growth in expenditures to these two sectors.
17.   Monetary Policy and Strengthening the Central Bank. The objectives of producing externally
audited central bank accounts and redesigning the re-discount rate policy were important targets which
were both easily met within the envisaged time frame. Treasury Bill issues, however, were somewhat
more contentious. While the Government did meet this objective by conducting several one-off T-Bill
issues over the course of 1995 and 1996, this prompted serious consideration within the World Bank as to
the efficacy of promoting T-Bills in an environment which was both monopolistic and controlled by state
banks. The timing for such a requirement may, therefore, have been a little pre-mature given the parlous
state of the financial sector at the time that the T-Bill issues were to have taken place. Subsequent
developments within the financial sector, however, which have radically changed its structure and
competitiveness, now mean that a more structured program of Treasury Bill issues can be (and indeed,
has been) developed as a more meaningful tool of monetary policy.
18.   The requirement to develop a Foreign Exchange Law and associated regulations was appropriate
for this stage of both market and central bank development. This has provided a modern framework for
the conduct of foreign exchange operations in a new, liberalized environment. The maintenance of a
market determined exchange rate has been achieved and the stability of the domestic currency over the
past twenty four months is a reflection of the macroeconomic stability achieved over this period. The
first tentative steps in banking supervision were made, and the first on-site supervision of the banks took
place over 1994/95. Further strengthening of bank supervision capacities will, however, be required for



7
some years to come -- and will continue to be supported under the Financial Sector Capacity Building
Credit. In addition, central bank over-site of the banking sector, which is now completely privately
owned, with many more participants, is critical to ensuring the continuing overall health of the system.
This on-going need for strengthening bank supervision capabilities, and the relative importance of this
task, is reflected in the fact that elements of further bank supervision strengthening were included as
integral components of the Third Economic Recovery Credit.
19.   Financial Sector Reform. Some of the c redit's most significant developments were achieved in
this component of the credit. Initial reluctance to privatize the state owned banks (particularly the larger
of the two -- Banco Comercial de Mocambique) was a consequence of the bank's poor financial position
and because they represented virtually the entire banking system. The restructuring strategy which was
adopted sought to transfer losses from BCM's balance sheet to internal collection units and write-offs, the
cessation of lending to non-performing borrowers, and appointing external management advisers, while
simultaneously privatizing and restructuring the largest non-performing borrowers. This policy was
designed to ultimately prepare the banks for privatization when there was more political will for such a
development. By early 1995 it had become evident that this strategy was not working. Loan losses were
on the rise, the banks were illiquid (particularly BCM), and borrowing on overdraft from the central bank
was on the increase. A dispute over the role of the external management team brought in to run BCM
resulted in a less than satisfactory management arrangement. In March 1995, faced with a deteriorating
situation, the Governor of the central bank took the bold step of announcing his Government's intention
to privatize the two state banks. Suddenly the program moved from "slow track" bank privatization to
"fast track" bank privatization. Supported from funding under the FSCB credit, Sales Advisors were
brought in to organize the privatization process and, as a result, BCM was privatized in July 1996 and
BPD in September 1997.
20.   The privatization of the banks, most particularly the larger bank (BCM), resulted in an almost
immediate cessation of monetary leakages within the economy. The overdraft position of BCM
continued to increase in the lead up to the privatization (despite the punitive rates at which funds were
made available) -- increasing to an all time high of around US$80 million in January 1996. Attempts to
deal with this growing overdraft position and the moral hazard problems associated with the up-coming
privatization, met with only partial success. However, this credit creation mechanism was halted at the
point of privatization, and inflation declined dramatically thereafter along with an overall much slower
growth in the money supply. The September 1997 privatization of BPD helped to consolidate this
position, although with nowhere near as dramatic an impact as the privatization of the substantially larger
BCM.
21.   Hence, the Government "about turn" and adaptation of a position on privatization, which the
World Bank had held for some time, meant that this operation has been successful in achieving
macroeconomic stability. Had the Government not adopted a policy of bank privatization, then the
measures, as originally laid out in the SERC, would almost certainly have been much less successful in
achieving the intended results of competitive cnd commercially operated banks -- operating within a
stable macroeconomic environment.



8
l 22.   New banking entry has been
CHART 2: Banking System Share of Total          important in engendering greater
Assets, 1995 to 1997                  competition  and  better banking
services, while eroding the  old
monopoly  position   of  Banco
so                                                Comercial    de    Mocambique.
@ 40 -                                    BCM       Mozambique now has eight financial
X2                                      o f  BPD   institutions operating within a totally
>30 -                                  D |   |3BSTM  privately owned sector -- comprised
.0                            ci~~~~~~~~~~~ BFE
m   BIM    of six commercial banks, one leasing
10 20. t                         |      m BCI       company and one cooperative bank.
1  ULC     Chart 2 shows the evolution of the
10                                    MCreditoop   banking sector over the past three
o [                                                _ i | _ _ years -- and clearly demonstrates the
5 sss      ss6         ss7                 declining share of the market held
year                           by BCM. These data are likely to
underestimate the decline in BCM's
relative position as the 1997 data are estimates and all of the three smaller banks have grown much faster
than anticipated when this survey was undertaken. While the reform of the financial sector is far from
complete, recent trends indicate that more and better financial services are being offered to the banking
public. Further broadening and deepening of the sector in terms of more instruments and institutions will
be needed if the banking sector is to provide the support to rapid economic growth envisaged in
Mozambique over the medium term future. In addition, it will be important to carefully track the
progress of the newly privatized banks as there are many examples of large, poorly performing state
owned banks which were privatized (particularly in Eastern Europe) where neither governance nor
financial performance improved. It should not be assumed that all the financial sector problems have
been solved merely because the banks have been privatized -- despite the fact that initial observations do
appear to be favorable.
23.   Privatization and Enterprise Sector Reform. Following a slow initial start the privatization
program accelerated quickly after the national elections in October 1994. The objective established as
conditionality under the SERC was to privatize at least seven of the biggest companies which were also
the worst borrowers from the banking system. The broader objective, as described in the President's
Report, was to privatize 45 companies over the entire life time of the operation. By October 1996, the
short term objective had been met and, by late 1997, the Government had privatized around 48
enterprises -- comfortably above their longer term commitment of 45. This strong performance was
supplemented by the privatization of almost 900 small and medium scale enterprises, out of
approximately 1,000 originally slated for privatization. The private sector now produces virtually all of
Mozambique's industrial output compared with less than a third in 1990. This change in ownership has
been reflected in a strong recovery within this sector. A joint Bank/Government review on the impact of
privatization revealed a four-fold increase in the output of large, recently privatized, firms.
24.    The initial focus on large, non-performing borrowers within the banking system was important in
turning around the deleterious situation within the banking system. The strength of the privatization
program -- which is now the largest in Africa in terms of revenues generated as a percent of GDP -- has
had equally important results by a dramatically turning around the industrial sector.
25.   The SERC also supported the restructuring of three of the largest delinquent service parastatals.
This group included LAM (the national airlines), CFM (the national railways) and AGRICOM (the



9
agricultural marketing board). LAM was to have been privatized at the end of 1997, but was withdrawn
at the last moment as the bids that came in were considered to be non-responsive (privatization was not
an option at the time the Credit was being designed). Bidding for the concessioning of the port facilities
and the three railway lines into the port of Maputo (from South Africa, Zimbabwe and Swaziland) has
been completed and negotiations are currentlly underway. Lastly, the debt of AGRICOM, the state
marketing board, was written-off and the company was liquidated. It was, however, replaced by a
Cereals Institute (ICM) which has continued some marketing functions on a limited scale. Its access to
bank finance, however, has been drastically.
26.    The success of the reform program can be attributed to the inter-linked nature in which financial
and private sector reforms were addressed. The privatization of the state banks eliminated access to
"easy finance" for the state enterprises -- and, to some extent, this increased the urgency of addressing
restructuring and privatization issues in the industrial sector. The rapid privatization of the enterprise
sector, in turn, resulted in a much healthier, and more competitive, banking sector -- as the quality of loan
portfolios improved and financial soundness grew. The inter-linked and mutually reinforcing nature of
this program was a critical element in its overall success.
27.    Macroeconomic Framework. Efficiency gains resulting from privatization fed through into
higher production levels and faster growth in the industrial sector while the privatization of the banks
closed the main source of monetary leakage in the economy, thus assisting in reducing money supply
growth and inflation. Chart 3 below charts infliation in Mozambique over the period 1994 to 1998.
rCKHART 3: Annual IIflation in Mozambique, 1994to                1
Point at wich BCM was Privatized
7 0   -   -- -- -          -   ------. . --   .  ..  .  ..   . -- - - -- - - -   - .   - - . -- - -
60 -    -4;ifW       F -   -;  -               --'---  I-------------W1----  ----- F- --- ----
14 -                                --   --------o ¢   < -   -- - - -  - -   --   - -- -- -   -- - - - -  -
3 0   -.                                - - -- -- --           . _. .. ..   .........___..... ............ ___.......... .__
50 
The privatization ofBCM in July 1996 was the, turning point in the inflationary spiral. Although inflation
had increased prior to the bank's privatization, this appears to be a consequence of money creation
through the central bank's overdraft financing mechanism to address serious liquidity problems in the
bank, as bank customers moved to other banks, as competition became more intense, and as concerns
over the future of BCM during the privatizatlion process became more evident. After the privatization,
the inflation rate dropped dramatically from an underlying rate of around 50 percent per annum, to 4.2
percent in September 1997, at the time that the credit closed (and 1.4 percent at the end of April 1998).
28.    The monetary leakages through the state owned banks were a critical factor in generating
monetary instability and consequent macroeconomic instability. There is a strong relationship between
money supply growth and the growth in the overdraft of the central bank to the state banks. This



10
relationship appears to have fed through very directly into inflation in Mozambique. For example,
monetary growth was 58 percent in 1994, 55 percent in 1995, and 21 percent in 1996 -- compared to
inflation of 70 percent, 57 percent, and 16 percent in the corresponding years. Nonetheless, it is
interesting to note that, despite a higher rate of money supply growth in 1997 (24 percent), the rate of
inflation has fallen to below 6 percent.
29.    Macroeconomic stability and
CHART 4: Exchange Rate  1WUS$)                  lower inflation has, in turn, resulted in
i1992tol1998                       a stable currency for the first time
l____________________________ _                  since   the   adjustment   program   was
initiated.   The metical, had been
broadly depreciating in line with the
inflation rate but this process was
80                           sooo- _ * *halted in the first quarter of 1996.
Since then, the metical has held its
c 6o*                                                    value against the US dollar -- while
G 4(*--                                                  appreciating  against most regional
2000X) - fi   |    |    *    |    |                    currencies, most importantly the South
2W)  -    -    -    -    -                     lAfrican rand which was relatively
o                                                    weak over the same period. Chart 4
graphs the movement of the metical
year           X               against the United States dollar over
I ____________________________   _         ___-  ______     the  period   1992  to   1998.
30.    These positive macroeconomic developments will need to be supported by further financial
sector deepening and broadening -- as well as second generation macro-economic policy reforms. The
development of new financial instruments and institutions will be critical in supporting broader based
growth into the future. In addition, fiscal policy will need to be strengthened and consolidated. World
Bank support to the Ministry of Finance in carrying out a Fiscal Management Review is aimed at
addressing issues of budgetary control and management within the context of continued significant
budgetary support from the donor community, integration of the recurrent and investment budgets, and
increasing fiscal decentralization. This is supported by a major effort in revenue mobilization in
combination with further trade liberalization.
31.    Poverty. The poverty goals of the SERC were to maintain the social safety net, while "at least"
maintaining expenditures on the social sectors. As indicated, expenditure on the social sectors increased
significantly in real terms as resources were reallocated from military spending. This realignment of
expenditures resulted in a noticeable improvement in health and education services -- to address a
backlog of pressing needs. Nonetheless, increasingly, the authorities will have to pay attention to quality
of services as well as to coverage.
32.    The provision of a social safety net continued throughout the program  period, albeit with
problems. The wider impact on poverty reduction has come from peace and resultant agricultural growth.
The restoration of peace permitted the resettlement of more than one-third of the population in rural areas
which was critical to addressing issues of food security. Reliance upon food aid has declined markedly.
Nonetheless, poverty continues to be widespread -- and the capacity of the Government to deal with this
problem through direct budgetary transfers will be severely limited. Improved social conditions, the
further restoration of agricultural production, re-development of the rural road network and the



11
strengthening of the rural trading network, will all play a more significant role in reducing rural poverty
(which accounts for the bulk of the poor in Mozambique).
33.   Addressing issues of urban poverty will continue to be more difficult and the system of social
safety nets will therefore be important in these areas. A Poverty Alleviation Unit within the Ministry of
Finance is developing better methodologies to track poverty and this unit was involved in the 1997
Household Income and Expenditure Survey. Ihis work will give a much clearer picture of the poor in
Mozambique and will hopefully assist in identifying the best interventions to address the needs of this
group. Equally important will be the resuscitation of the country's industrial base and the generation of
employment opportunities in urban areas. Increased foreign direct investment, and the development of
some of the "mega-projects" currently under consideration, will be important in this regard.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THIE PROGRAM
34.   The major factor in the success of the program was the appointment of visionary economic policy
makers to key economic ministries in the wake of the October 1994 elections. Stringent fiscal discipline
has been maintained, keeping the fiscal side of the economy roughly in balance (albeit significantly
supported by substantial donor inflows). Strong and visionary support for a politically difficult program
of banking privatization was also provided by the central bank. Despite initial resistance to privatization,
the management within the central bank was able to take the lead in providing a vision of where the
financial sector needed to go, including the privatization of the banks, and then ensure that this goal was
reached. Strong coordination between the Ministry of Planning and Finance and the Central Bank -- as
well as an apparent lack of interference by the Ministry of Finance in the monetary policy/financial sector
policy dealings of the central bank -- meani: that the macroeconomic fundamentals were able to be
established. In addition, the strong support given to the privatization program by both the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism (MICTUR) was critical to
the success of the reform of the real side of the economy. Tough political decisions often had to be made
and the process was not always perfect, but, on balance, the results have been remarkable.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   A considerable degree of macroeconomic stability has been achieved, and the future looks very
promising -- particularly given the willingness of the Government to undertake deeper reforms.
Nonetheless, the challenges remain enormous. Sustaining macroeconomic stability and achieving fiscal
sustainability will be key to achieving sustained growth over the longer term.  Hence, project
sustainability and revenue mobilization are critical issues. Reforms and reform-minded government
officials may be tested as they traverse the next two years of local government elections (1998) and
Presidential elections (1999). There is a possibility that the precedence of the political agenda may
overtake the precedence of the economic reform agenda. Nonetheless, continued strong growth and
constantly improving economic indicators at this particular point in time would suggest that there is good
reason for optimism into the future. Sustairiability, nonetheless, remains the key for Mozambique's
future. The recent (April 1998) agreement on the HIPC initiative will also greatly assist in sustaining the
macro reform program.
36.   In addition, post privatization experience with privatized state banks has not always been
particularly favorable and hence there is an important need to closely follow the financial well being of
the two former state owned banks. This will[ place a lot of responsibility on the banking supervision
department of the central bank which will require further strengthening under the auspices of the FSCB
credit. In addition, although new banking entry is important, the bank supervisors will need to take



12
particular care that sound bank licensing criteria is carefully applied to ensure the entry of strong, well
managed banks, and to also ensure that the banking system does not become overbanked.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Borrower performance was satisfactory during the design phase of the credit, although the World
Bank recognized that the success of the bank restructuring exercise could be limited by the Government's
ability to take hard decisions. The Government's reluctance to move decisively was manifested in: (a)
the growing deterioration of the balance sheet of the bank even after the financial clean up of mid-1994;
(b) the seemingly limitless overdraft financing that the central bank provided to BCM in the light of its
continual negative position on bank clearing; (c) and the reluctance to replace existing management
within BCM (and later BPD) with external bank managers in line positions. These initial developments,
however, were critical inputs into the Government changing its own policy stance, nine months into the
program.  The eventual sign-off on privatization greatly enhanced the chances of successfully
implementing the program -- and ultimately proved to be the critical element in achieving
macroeconomic stability.
38.   While the commitment to banking system reform is the most dramatic demonstration of the
Government's performance, in terms of the impact it had on macroeconomic stabilization, many other
elements of the program also demonstrated a strong Government performance. The willingness to go
well beyond a mere maintenance of real levels of budgetary expenditures to the social sectors is one such
example. The strength and vigor of the privatization program for industrial parastatals is yet another
example (nearly 900 enterprises have been privatized -- the largest privatization program in Africa). The
agreement to move on the privatization/private concessioning of some large service parastatals such as
the railways (CFM) is a further demonstration of the Government's willingness to go further than the
progress envisaged under the SERC.
39.   The main elements that delayed the release of second tranche by about four months were: (a) a
delay in reviewing the plan which would establish the national airlines (LAM) on a firm financial footing;
and (b) a delay in initiating negotiations with an external company to provide managers to run BCM. Of
the two, the former proved to be the bigger problem, in part, due to poor project supervision of this
component, but also due to the fact that this issue represented somewhat of an "outlyer" in terms of
conditionality, in that it was operationalized by the Ministry of Transport and Communications rather
than the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance (who together had control over implementing all other
conditionality for second tranche release). In turn, the release of the third tranche was delayed by eleven
months. On this occasion, implementation of all conditions was somewhat delayed, but the main laggard
was, again, the conditionality on the national railways (CFM) which fell outside the purview of the
central economic ministries (and again with the Ministry of Transport and Communications). Despite
internal Bank efforts to learn from the experiences of a delayed second tranche release and specifically
agree on what was needed, there was still slower than expected action from the Transportation Ministry.
It should be noted, however, that this was also a problem of project design as there were far too many
conditions attached to second tranche release (ten conditions).
40.   The delays in tranche release, however, were not unduly problematic. Balance of payments
funds were not in short supply until close to when the tranches were actually released. The overall
program achieved significantly more than what was originally envisaged at the time that the SERC was
designed in terms of: (a) achieving solid macroeconomic stability; (b) getting significantly more
budgetary resources allocated to the social sectors than originally anticipated; (c) achieving substantial
financial sector reform including complete private sector ownership; and (d) achieving significantly more



13
privatization within the industrial enterprise sector than originally envisaged. In some ways, many of
these "bigger than expected achievements" were mutually reinforcing, with greater success in one area
resulting in greater movement within another. This is not, however, to take away from the strong
government commitment to the overall refonn program -- without which -- these successes would not
have been possible. Lastly, it should be noted that project audits were also provided on a timely basis by
the Borrower.
G.  BANK PERFORMANCE
41.   The Bank's performance in the identification, appraisal and negotiation of the credit was
satisfactory although, as noted above, there were too many tranche conditions, particularly for second
tranche release. Perhaps, because of the number of conditions, at times there was insufficient clarity - or
communication -as to what was exactly required from the Borrower to fulfill the conditions. Supervision
of the reform program was monitored in the context of supervision missions by a task manager (a
financial economist) who was based in the Resident Mission. This perrnitted continuous supervision in
addition to more formal supervision missions which were conducted from time to time. This was
particularly important in terms of adjusting to unforeseen developments such as the ballooning of the
overdraft position of BCM in late 1995 -- and the implementation of an Emergency Action Program over
this period, as well as the sudden shift in policy from restructuring to rapid privatization of the two state
banks. The implementation of the privatizaltion program within the industrial sector, and the overall
supervision of this component, was carried out under the auspices of, and with technical assistance from,
the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Credit (Cr. No. 2081), while the bank privatization and associated
technical assistance and training support was provided under the Financial Sector Capacity Building
Credit (Cr. 2607). Elements of further budgetary reform, tax reform, financial sector reform, trade
liberalization, and private sector development will continue under the above projects and the auspices of
the 1997, Third Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. No.35922) and the Economic Management Reform
Credit (EMRC) -- currently under preparation.
42.   The change in disbursement procedures which were adopted by IDA for adjustment operations in
1995 was retrospectively applied to the SERC. Allowing full disbursement to the central bank
immediately after the tranche was released -- instead of continuously replenishing the Special Account
based upon import documentation -- permitted: more rapid disbursement; the development of an inter-
bank market in foreign exchange; and brought the Bank into line with some of the more progressive
donors who were already providing balance oiF payments support on this basis. The removal of the legal
limits on the importation of petroleum products was also an important innovation over the course of the
implementation of the program. Both of these developments obviated the needfor any project extension
(as had taken place with the Economic Recovery Credit -- ERC) as funds were all fully disbursed well in
advance of the credit's closing date.
43.   No Aide Memoire is included in this ICR as the project was monitored and supervised on a
continuous basis from the resident mission, and as on-going macro economic reform elements were
incorporated into the follow-on adjustment operation, there was no final Aide Memoire which effectively
"closed" the Second Economic Recovery Credit.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   The project was relevant and timely, and the outcome of the program was satisfactory. The
economy has been liberalized and, to a large extent, privatized. A strong framework for private sector
development has been established and a group of related ancillary activities have been supported



14
(including an annual system of private sector conferences; completion and partial implementation of a
FIAS Red Tape Study; support for the development of local business associations; legal reform; support
for the investment promotion center; and so on). Growth has strengthened over this period -- with good
prospects for continued strong growth over the remainder of the decade. Although poverty remains a
pressing concern, the living conditions for many households, particularly in terms of food security, has
improved significantly.
45.   Administrative changes in procurement and disbursement arrangements for adjustment
operations were applied, through a legal amendment, just prior to third tranche release. Restrictions on
the use of the credit for petroleum imports (limited to 20 percent of the total credit) were also removed.
These changes greatly facilitated disbursements. In particular, the changes permitted the Bank to join
other donors who were increasingly supportive of the development of a more liberalized market in
foreign exchange. This has facilitated the development of an inter-bank market in foreign exchange.
These administrative changes have played an important role in both increasing the overall effectiveness
of the credit and enhancing its capacity to support more market driven developments within the foreign
exchange markets.
46.   Some slippages did occur -- some of which seriously compromised the capacity of the credit to
live up to its original objectives. However, these slippages were, in some cases, addressed by a
Government commitment to move even further and faster on particular policy reforms than perhaps they
otherwise would have done. This was particularly true in the area of banking sector reform. Overall, the
strong Government commitment to go even further than what had been required was evident in the
financial sector, with respect to privatization, and with respect to social sector expenditures.  In
combination, these activities managed to create the conditions for macroeconomic stability and greater
private sector led growth.
47.   Any up-beat assessment of Mozambique must, however, contain several cautionary caveats.
Despite macroeconomic stability, the economy remains highly dependent upon foreign sources of
concessional funding for budgetary expenditures and to finance imports; severe human resource capacity
constraints exist; the government faces a daunting challenge of re-establishing a complete infrastructural
base; the civil service is particularly weak, and poverty remains a pressing issue. Problems of severe
indebtedness will, in part, be addressed by Mozambique's eligibility for the HIPC initiative -- although
Mozambique's debt service will still remain a concern. This implies thatthe reform agenda which lies
ahead will be long and hard. However, Mozambique now has one of the brightest windows of
opportunity open to it in its entire 23 year post independence period.
48.       Ratings.  Achievement of Objective: Substantial.
Program Sustainability:   Likely.
Bank Performance:      Satisfactory.
Borrower Performance:   Satisfactory
Assessment of Outcome:  Satisfactory.
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   Support for on-going activities under the SERC was provided by the follow up adjustment
operation, the Third Economic Recovery Credit (TERC), which also focused on an inter-linked program
of fiscal/monetary and financial/private sector reform -- including the completion of the privatization
process within the banking system. Further policy reform will be supported under the next adjustment
operation (currently under preparation). This credit, the Economic Management Reform Credit, will



15
focus on improving the sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations (with a special focus on
fiscal reforms). This project is scheduled to be appraised in June/July 1998 and approved in early 1999.
A private sector support program (the PoDE) is also under preparation -- to take over from an existing
private sector project which is scheduled to close at the end of 1998. The new credit will continue to
support private sector activities, in particular, SME financing, training subsidies, support for the
development of industrial linkages, support to the Government agencies which have a direct relationship
with the private sector (the investment promotion agency, the export promotion agency, and the Ministry
of Industry, Trade and Tourism), and support for private sector business associations. Financial sector
support will continue to be provided by the Financial Sector Capacity Building Credit.
J.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   Lessons Learned. The main conclusions and lessons learned are:
*  Borrower commitment to the adjustnment program. It is clear that the main element in the success
of the SERC program was the Government's strong commitment. This does not imply that the
program always developed as originally intended, or was even sequenced as well as it could have
been. Nonetheless, the strong commitment to achieve the underlying objectives of the reform
program resulted in the successes that are now evident.
*  Social safety nets are only partial answers to poverty concerns -- and other mechanisms should
be pursued more vigorously in Mozambique. The social safety net scheme only impacts around
90,000 urban families -- whereas the bulk of the poor live in rural areas, unaffected by such
programs. The problems of "leakages" from these types of programs was also evident in
Mozambique. A stronger focus on agricultural pricing, marketing, research and extension
activities, as well as micro-finance, is likely to have more effect on overall poverty reduction in
Mozambique.
*  "Macro-monetary problems" can be 'financial institution " problems. The relative size of BCM
compared to the rest of the banking system, in combination with its poor management and lack of
control from the central bank, meant that its own actions became the main source of
macroeconomic instability in the economy. Privatizing the banks and stopping non-commercial
overdraft borrowing from the central bank immediately stopped the sources of monetary leakage
and ensured macro-monetary stability.
*  Restructuring state owned banks, as state owned banks, is not a practical solution. Despite the
best intentions, the restructuring and recapitalization of state owned banks seems to be a failed
policy alternative. Restructuring and recapitalizing banks at the point of privatization (as
occurred with BCM and BPD) appears to give a more satisfactory outcome.
*  The lead up period to bank privatization is likely to create a period of intense moral hazard.
With bank customers leaving to go to other banks, aggravated liquidity problems, and a general
loss of control within the institution, the financial position of the state banks deteriorated
seriously in the lead up to privatization. This implies that some sort of checks and balances
should be put in place to deal with these problems in similar situations.
*  Private sector andfinancial sector issues are inextricably interlinked The interlinked nature of
these two sectors means that programs to address reform in either sector must also address the
other in a symbiotic manner. Interlinked programs have the greatest chance of success.



16
Developing a good quality statistical information base is critical to properly monitoring the
impact of the adjustment program. Good progress has been made in this area in Mozambique
over the past three years -- however, there is still considerable scope for improvement. Good
statistics support the development of better analysis and policy measures, as well as helping in
monitoring the impact of the policies which are introduced.
* Administrative issues were just as important as economic policy issues in the adjustment
program. The changes in disbursement arrangements introduced under the SERC were important
-- not just in an administrative sense -- but also in terms of supporting the development of a
deeper market in foreign exchange.



17
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments ................................... 18
A.    Achievement of Objectives .................. 18
B.    Program Sustainability ................... 18
C.    Bank Performance .................. 18
D.    Borrower Performance .................. 18
E.    Assessment of Outcome .................. 18
Table 2:      Related Bank Operations ................................... 19
Table 3:      Project Timetable ................................... 20
Table 4:      Disbursements ................................... 20
Table 5:      Key Indicators, Actual and Projected, 1992-96 ................................... 21
Table 6:      Economic Performance, 1987 - 1997 ...........        ........................ 22
Table 7:      Social Indicators, 1993, 19941, and 1995 ............... .................... 23
Table 8:      Status of Legal Covenants ................................... 24
Table 9:      Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs .............     ...................... 25
Table 10:     Bank Resources - Missions ................................... 26



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A  Ahieement fObjective           Substanial;\ ;  Partial    LNegligible       N/A
Macroeconomic Policies                i
Sector Policies                       /
Financial Objectives                  /
Institutional Development                           .
Physical Objectives                                                            i/
Poverty Reduction
Gender Concerns
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management                            I
Private Sector Development            if
B. Program Sustinability         Likel               Unlikely            Uncertain
C.BanikPerformance       Highly Satisfactory      Satisfaictory         Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                  if
Appraisal                        _
Supervision                        i
D. Borrower Performance  Highl Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                             i
Implementation                                          i
Covenant Compliance
E. Assessment of            Highly        Satisfactory   UnsatifWtory       Highly
Outcome                  Satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
4  g   i: :     ;    iX:::  :9:    7;  :::Xi; ::: :     7     ;    .    2     :     R  7if7



19
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Credit Title                        Pulpose                      Fiscal      Status
(As it relates to the SERC)          Year
Preceding Operations
Rehabilitation Program  To rehabilitate and maintain investments and    1985   Completed
economic services expecl:ed to generate an
immediate production response.
Second Rehabilitation   To support policy and institutional reforms; to  1988   Completed
Credit                  provide foreign exchange to finance essential
imports; and to assist the Government develop an
agenda for longer-term policy changes.
Third Rehabilitation Credit To improve the allocation of foreign exchange,  1989   Completed
budgetary policy, and price policy, and to review
and reform the trade tariff structure.
Economic Recovery Credit To support the early phase of financial sector  1992   Completed
(ERC)                   reform -- particularly the separation of Banco de
Mocambique and BCM; amd to also support further
integration and liberalization of the exchange rate.
Parallel Operations
Economic Management &  To strengthen the key economic and financial     1990   Completed
Financial Technical     management functions ol the Ministry of Finance
Assistance (EMFTA)      and Bank of Mozambique.
Small and Medium Scale   To provide medium and long-term financing      1990   Completed
Enterprise Credit (SME)
Industrial Enterprise   To restructure and rehabilitate the industrial sector    1990   Under
Restructuring Credit    through the privatization of state-owned enterprises  implementation
(IERP)                  and financing for plant and equipment
rehabilitation.
Financial Sector Capacity  To develop and strengthen the financial sector  1994   Under
Building (FSCB)         institutions, including training of central and       implementation
commercial bank staff and legal professionals at
BOM and MOF.
Following Operations
Third Economic Recovery  To support measures to improve macro-economic  1997   Under
(TERC)                  management through financial and fiscal reformn,      implementation
and to stimulate the supply response.
Economic Management    Main elements currently being identified -- likely to   1998   Under
Reformn Credit (EMRC)    be further budgetary reform elements, tax reform,     identification
trade liberalization, and private sector development
issues.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step s   F in Prject Cycle   DatePlanned            Date Actual
Identification                                         November 1993*
Preparation                                             January 1993*
Appraisal                                             March/April 1994
Negotiations                                             April 1994
Letter of Development Policy                            April 6, 1994
Board Presentation                                      June 16, 1994
Signing                                                 June 17, 1994
Effectiveness                                           July 19, 1994
First Tranche Release             July 31, 1994         July 19, 1994
Second Tranche Release           March 31, 1995         July 24, 1995
Third Tranche Release          November 30, 1995       October 28, 1996
Closing Date                     August 30, 1997       August 30, 1997
Table 4: Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent)
FY95     FY96      FY97      FY98
Appraisal Estimate             80.0     90.0      30.0
Appraisal Estimate Cumulative  80.0     170.0    200.0
Revised Estimate              75.46     94.54     30.0
Revised Estimate Cumulative   75.46     170.0    200.0
Actual                        82.71     25.32    100.30
Actual Cumulative             82.71    108.03    208.33    208.33



21
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actual And Projected, 1994-97
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Actual                Bank Projections'
1994  1995   196   1997           1995       1996
GDP Growth                          4.5    1.4    6.4    12.5         3.3         3.5
Total Investment/GDP               51.0   51.2   48.3   47.2          42.5       40.7
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP          5.7   18.0   19.9   17.9         -3.6        -1.9
Export Growth (GNFS) (US$)         13.8   14.6   17.7   5.9           16.4       15.9
Import Growth (GNFS) (US$)          6.2   -11.6   8.2    11.3        -12.7        5.9
Current Account Balance (US$ Mn2)  864    677    667    711          -268.3     -255.5
Current account deficit (% of GDP)
Before grants               59.1   45.6   38.9   36.3         57.3        46.1
After grants                20.5   22.8   22.5   19.2          17.4       15.2
Total Revenues/GDP3                17.6   18.3   18.0   19.9          19.0       18.9
Total Expenditures/GDP4            47.3   39.1   35.1   40.2          45.2       37.9
Fiscal deficit before grants/GDP   29.7   20.9   17.2   20.3          28.0
Fiscal deficit after grants/GDP    13.7   7.6    7.8    6.7           4.0
onsumer Price Index Growth Rate   63.1   54.4   44.6   6.9          30.0        18.0
Note: Due to inadequacies in the national accounts, the ratios to GDP are distorted. In addition, investment
figures include a significant proportion of recurrent expenditures. The national accounts are being revised.
'Projections are from the SERC President's Report (]'-6337-MOZ) dated May 18, 1994.
2Excluding foreign grants.
3Excluding capital grants.
4Including net lending.



22
Table 6: Economic Performance, 1987-1997
-                                ---------- --- ------------ Actual --- -----------     ---- --------    Est.
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Real GDP Growth Rate (%)          4.6    8.2    6.5    0.9    4.9   -0.8   18.8    4.5    1.4    6.4   7.9*
Inflation (end-period) (%)              49.4   35.0   47.1   35.2   54.5   43.6   70.2   54.1   16.6    5.8
Private Investment/GDP           18.8   21.1   18.9   23.7   26.0   31.1   38.0   30.1   32.2   31.5   29.2
Public Investment/GDP            17.3   22.2   21.6   20.9   19.7   17.6   16.4   20.9   19.0   16.8   18.0
Gross Domestic
Savings/GDP                      -2.4   -2.1   -6.7    1.5    4.5    5.5   10.4    5.7   18.0   19.9   17.9
Gross National
Savings/GDP                       2.2   12.4    3.2   15.2   12.5   15.8   19.6   15.7   17.7   17.5   17.8
Public Sector Surplus
(Deficit)/GDP /1                -22.9  -27.0  -24.8  -29.2  -24.9  -26.3  -22.2  -29.7  -20.8  -17.0  -20.3
Ann. Avg. Exch. Rate/2 (%)   -86.0  -45.2  -29.0  -19.8  -35.3   40.4  -34.6  -37.1  -25.3   -3.6   -4.5
Exports (GNFS)/GDP               13.0   15.7   16.0   16.0   21.8   23.7  21.3   24.3   27.4   27.6   25.9
Imports (GNFS)/GDP               51.4   61.1   63.3   59.1   63.0   66.9  65.3   69.6   60.6   56.0   55.2
Current Account / /3            -25.4  -23.3  -28.2  -22.0  -16.5  -18.6  -21.9  -20.5  -22.7  -22.4  -19.2
Total Debt Service/GDP A        40.5   43.2   37.7   34.6   34.1   40.7   34.1   32.0   28.4   21.8   18.9
SOURCE:         CAS 1997. /1 = excl. grants; /2 (-) = devaluation; /3 = after grants. /4 = total debt service due
before debt relief, including IMF.
* Although this was the number provided in the December, 1997 CAS the number has now been
revised upwards to 12.5 percent (which is the number used elsewhere in this report).



2:3
Table 7: Selected Social Intdicators, 1993, 1994 and 1995
Health Indicators, 1993-1995          1993          1994          1995
Indicators of Access
Number of visits per people        0.36          0.37          0.40
Facility-based deliveries per people   26%       29%           27%
Ante-natal coverage                57%           63%           64%
Coverage 0-11 months               75%           83%           92%
DPT third dose coverage            45%           55%           57%
Measles vaccination                60%           65%           69%
Health Services
Hospital days                      1,992,862     2,045,570     2.,093,377
Facility-based deliveries          145,250       166,802       164,117
Vaccinations                       3,624,491     4,665,690     4,617,684
Number of visits                   4,698,906     4,797,791     5,390,985
Units of health services 1/        29,068,316    31,026,951    32,578,111
Source: "Situacao, Problemas e Perspectivas, o Servico Nacional de Sauide", Ministry of Health, April 1996
Note:   1/ Units of health services are weighted average of the above categories
Education Indicators(%)            1991           1994           1995
Enrollment ratio in rural areas
6-10 years                  23.8           45.4           n.a
11-12 years                 43.3           63.7           n.a.
13-15 years                 42.2           51.8           n.a.
Gross enrollment ratios (primary)
National level              62.9           54.2            57
Source:  "Rural Poverty Profile", Poverty Alleviation Unit, Ministry of Planning and Finance, April 1996



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                                 Desenrption oCovenant i                                          Comments.
E S     e c tio n                                                                                  _ _i _ _iECE_ _ _ _ _ _ _EX _ _ _ ESE;E;E:    iiE!E:Pi:::i:     ik  X:;E    
Schedule 3
(a)       The Borrower has completed a final draft of a Foreign Exchange Act as referred to in paragraph  Draft finalized and submitted -
29 of the Letter of Development Policy, and has submitted it to the Assembleia da Repiblica (the - condition met.
Parliament);
(b)       The Borrower has formally adopted the Strategic Plans referred to in paragraph 36 of the Letter  Plans were prepared, approved
of Development Policy, that shall have been prepared and approved by BCM and BPD,. in form   and adopted by the
and substance acceptable to the Association;                                        Govemment -- condition met.
(c)       The Borrower has through BM, completed the first loan portfolio classification of BCM, BPD,  Loan classifications completed
BSTM, BFE and BPA, as referred to in paragraph 25 of the Letter of Development Policy; and    and transfer to collection only
completed the process of transferring large non-performing BCM and BPD clients to a "collection units undertaken - condition
only" unit as referred to in paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development Policy;      met..
(d)       The Borrower has introduced a new system of allocating credit ceilings to the commercial banks, Condition met.
satisfactory to the Association, as referred to in paragraph 41 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(e)       The Borrower has fumished to the Association: (i) the results of the Borrower's review of the   Review submitted for LAM
implementation of the action plan undertaken by the national airline (LAM) to establish LAM on  and AGRICOM was liquidated
sound financial footing, as referred to in paragraph 49 of the Letter of Development Policy; and and debts written down -
(ii) a plan for settling the debts of the Agricultural Marketing Board (AGRICOM) to the banking  condition met.
system, as referred to in paragraph 49 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(f)       The Borrower has taken all necessary governmental action to remove the conditioned price  Conditioned price controls
controls in respect of the eight goods referred to in paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development    removed - condition met.
Policy;
(g)       The Borrower has for the purpose of strengthening the management capacity of BCM, and in    Condition met.
accordance with paragraph 40 of the Letter of Development Policy, initiated negotiations with
potential providers of management services;
(h)       The Borrower has introduced a broader central bank discount policy, as referred to in paragraph  Condition met.
21 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(i)       The Borrower has provide, to the Association, audited 1993 financial statements for BM, as  Satisfactory audits submitted
referred to in paragraph 30 of the Letter of Development Policy, in form and substance  to IDA - condition met.
satisfactory to the Association; and
(i)       The Borrower has allocated in the 1995 national budget, an amount equivalent to no more than  Condition met.
1% of gross domestic product for all subsidies to the enterprises owned by the Borrower, as
referred to in paragraph 176 of the Letter of Development Policy.
Schedule 4
(a)       The Borrower has designed and launched a pilot Treasury Bill auction referred to in paragraph   Condition met.
23 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(b)       The Borrower has completed draft Foreign Exchange regulations for the commercial banks as   Regulations finalized --
referred to in paragraph 29 of the Letter of Development Policy;                    condition met.
(c)       The Borrower has fumished to the Association a progress report demonstrating that the National Condition met.
Railways (CFM) is implementing, in a timely fashion, a restructuring program, as referred to in
paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(d)       The Borrower has taken all steps within its control to bring to the point of sale at least seven of  Condition met.
the enterprises owned by the Borrower referred to in paragraph 48 of the Letter of Development
Policy.5
For the purpose of this paragraph "taking all steps within its control to bring to the point of sale" requires the Borrower to have: (i) carried
out a valuation of the enterprises, if necessary; (ii) prepared a prospectus or dossier of the enterprise in question as the case may be; (iii)
solicited offers directly or through advertisement (s) in appropriate newspapers or other media, for at least majority ownership in the
enterprise; (iv) evaluated any offers and selected successful bidder (s), as the case may be, to enter into good faith negotiations.



25
Table 9: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs6
Stage of Project Cycle             Staff Weeks          US$'0007
Preparation to Appraisal                        83                  244
Appraisal                                        4                  12
Negotiations through Board Approval              9                  29
Supervision                                     56                 228
Completion                                       5                  12
TOTAL____________________157                                        525
6Source: MIS Report (COSR2) - Staff Time Use and. Schedule, in Staff Weeks and Dollars.
7 Includes travel and labor costs.



26
Table 19: Bank Resources - Missions
Sftage  ofte Project          Month/Year             Numberof    D sin Field
Cycle                              ~~~~~~~~~persons
Identification
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal                     March/April 1994               7                70
Supervision                     October 1994                 1                10
May 1995                   1                10
December 1995                1                10
March 1996                 1                 10
September 1996               1                 10
Completion                       March 1996                  2                15
Note: Supervision of the credit in 1994-97 was carried out from the Mozambique Resident Mission where the
task manager for the Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC) was based. Hence supervision was
carried out on a constant basis -- the above missions only represent formal supervision missions when a
Formal Report Back was filed to Washington.



BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



.-,  .   .   ...........   --  -    -   2 7
Simon BelU
Senior Financial Economist
Mozambique Resident Mission
Maputo.
MOZAiMBIQUE
Dear Sir
Imp lementadon Completion Report for
Second Economic Raecover Credit (SERC)
I.    The IDA Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC) was approved by the
Board in June 1994. The adjustment credit was a three tranche adjustment operation
amounting (SDR l414'7- million) USD 200 million. The credit provided financing to
support macroeconomic adjustment while supporting program of interlinked real and
inancial sector reform.
Z.    The Second Economic Recovery Credit emphasized policy and institu-ional
refonms in fiscal policy, central bank functions, monetary policy, the financial sector
and enterprise reform. To this end, Mozambique's structural adjustment program
focused on acions in four broad areas:
- Macroeconomic Management and  Budgetary  Policy: Continued  sournd
macroeconomic. management and measures to improve fiscal policy. It was
particulary necessary to deal with multiplicity of donor aid programs, develop
coherent sectoral strategies, and ensure that our priorities are iTnplemented. In
particular, the SERC seeks to support fiscal policy reform through the reallocaton
of expenditues toward the social sectors as well as the development of integrated
sectoral strategies in health, education amd agriculture;
Monetary Policy and Strengthening the Central Bank: The program aimed to
strengthen the central bank to enable it to play its proper role in administering
monetary policy, developing tools of indirect monetary policy management, and
fostering the development of a sound &ad efficient banking system through effective
regulation and supervision To achieve these objectives, the government worked
closely with both the IMF and IDA to develop appropnate macro-economic
instruments and policies;
* Restructuring of the Finalncial Sector: The particular objectve of the program
was to support finaacial sector refoTm through the introdution of competitive
measures and the gradual movement toward the privatization of the two state
own.:d commercial banks. The SERC seeks to restucturing the state owned banks



28
-           aw'A@zf~ 
to upgrade the qualy of banking services in the state banks and encouraging the
entry of new private sector banks. It was the government wish to develop a
commercially strong, prudently managed. and competitive banking sector operating
without govement interference, and;
En erprise Sector Reform: In the area of enterprise sector reform the program
see.:..ed particularly the elimination of implicit subsidies to large, predominantly state
owned enterprises; the continued privatization of these enterprises; the
establishment of concrete action plans to restore the financial soundness of large
public monopolies; and the removal of constraints that are adverely affiecvng the
performance of the enterprise sector and discouraging foreign investors. To achieve
this goal, the SERC supported the program of privatization of some state owned
industrisl enterprise.
Use of the Fwuns
3.    The total amount of the program (JSD 208,758,906.62) was used by several
beneficiaries to import goods and services, according to the terms and objectives
defined to m the LDP. The funds were maily used to pay for services and it absorved
USD .! 50,568,184.88, representing 72.13% of total funds. The other goods purchaised
out of SERC's finds were: consumer goods (not food), USD 27,762,394.89 which
represet 13.3% of the fimds; 12.0% of the fimds (USD 25,060,168.89) were used to
purchaise food, USD 3,912,956.02 (1.87%) were used to import raw material and for
equipment and spare parts absorved USD 1,455,201.93, representing 0.87%.
4.    The main suppliers were African countries to which an amount of USD
106,678,975.85 was paid. Suppliers from South Africa absorved 39.54% of the
amount paid to all african suppliers. To the american suppliers was paid an amount of
LUSD 68,805,241.02, represeniing 32.96% of the program's amount; Asian countries
absorved USD 23,167,589.53 (11.1%), and from Europe was purchaised goods and
services in an amount up to USD 10,107,100.21, which represents 4.84% of the total
amount of SERC.
The Fvecution of the Program
5.    In accordance with the program, the Government realised several actions to
meet the SERC's objectives as refered to in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP).
During cthe implementation of the proGram   overnment exchanged views with both
the World Bank and the IMF in order to achieve the defined objectives of the program
as welU as informing those institutions the stages of performance of said progrm.
6.    As a part of the objectives to be achieved with implementation of SERC, the
Foreign. Excchange Act was approved by the Parliament and it is now underway. The
two state banks (BCM  and BPD) drawn ttp strategic plans which address their
financial position, management issues, staffing, branches and organization. These plans
address the restructuring and downsizing of the banks and as the result of these plans,
the two banks have been privatized.
-.S



29
-   gs    -                      -> a 
7.    Under SERC's implemenrtation, a new system of allocating credit ceiling to the
commercial banks was introduced. This system has as particular objective to provide
incentives to banks to mobilize interest bearing deposits. The system was designed to
provide more dynamic private sector barks by moving credit ceilings away from the
two large state owned banks.
8.    The Central Bank introduced the, discount rate policy which provides for
limited amounts of central bank financing at high rates of interest on a lender of last
resort basis. This program is underway tco strengthen the Central Bank in the areas of
monetary control, supervision and foreign exchange managemernt.
9.    The privatization of large enterprises accelerated, including companies such as
the cement factories, the cashew nut processing plants and others. As a result, tie
estimated share of the gross value of industrial output produced by private enterprises
reached about two-third. Under the SERC and in connection with financial sector
reforms, a review of the 50 largest borrowers of the banking system was carried out.
The 14 largest non-performing borrowers were parastatals of which l1 were slated fc;
immediate privatiztion. The remaining three (AGRICOM, LAM and CFM) of the
original 14 parastatals were selected for restruturing or closure.
ConcZi&on
10.   The SERC's key objective: sustaining growth and increasing private sector
participation in the economy was achieved. The economic growth remained strong ar d
the resumption of productive activities for displaced people and refugees was mane
possible by peace. Stuctural reforms prosxessed with a significant increase in the pace
of privatization. Consistency between the country overall objectives of povery
reduction and fiscal policy has been significantly enhanced by the fiscal priorities given
to human resource development and health in the 1995 budget.
11.   The macroeconomic situation remains fragile. Fiscal imbalances and inflation
rose rapidly. During the last quarter of 1994, the Government began to take correctve
actions and made progress in bringing the macroeconomic situation under control.
12.   The introduction of new disbursement procedures during the implementation of
the SERC, provides a simplifycated way for utilization of finds.
Our evaluation is thal progress on the overall reform program has been satisfitory.
BAN C O    x      f i 5 !, QU :
Maputo, June 1998                                       iazarn_:iiu.l3
77n. 3o,no D. Saraiog



IBRD 28696
veo(Go   N/ANN J    <    j  344 )   36         38'                          PA
ZAIRE        .
GOA'                                                                   Z A  N     
*_0~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -', -
ZAMBIAM"AS -  -   -MOMIQUE
0D ,H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AVED WROAS, UNDER CONStRUCTION-
16-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~
0 1                        N.-u- o  p       -           E t :-.D.Z : - -
T~~~~~Mco                           thenZ Wol &mt  ~oore,          iNTERNATOiNAL ONA,RIEOS
HAAR _Q<ul                  X                           )-@;    OJOR%Ig
ST.>dC          h-      I       d his   .   -   no-
AL       B-i o~~~~n jdmelonte ea
,fSWAZILAND    SOUTH   -~~~~~~~~  booAPTHROAD
> ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~o0 MEf an  y  thror -                         ;-tR    
MOABANE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~RALOD
T. R.<                         X/                                       t      iU 
A, FA RIIMC A   ; XCbOIWeRV ?=TA_C    CMARCH -99
| t4'°tit\4fe   tr&=urpirteOpfored.- .(;A PR3IlC:ORTS8lltE
jMGUdt  ibiisclr,---{NEATZO4LlJARE-
L A/MALTO - - - TZille izl &Zrsk Gt :. PROVINCE CAPITALS-24X
26 SA7 FN RKS  I C A  I   ZC
MBAGANE t   j AFRICA   t  -    -     bo ch,ZsnWcwcptrepred          PRVNt BBZNO)CES
30>    t   >. 1   1    ' 34        E        E ~~~~~~byA* ap L-i -of                  t
M'~d                           th Wrd Bc E      ._,,    L,1 ;-k                          :,,:=
bounddri6k 4okrs,  INTERNATIO14AL BOUNDAF  TES



