Report No. PIC878
Project Name           Mozambique-Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC)
Region                      Africa
Sector                      Economic Policy and Development
Project ID                  MZPA1777
Project Cost                US$180 million
Financing Plan              US$180.0 million -- IDA
Others undetermined (Switzerland,
U.K. & Denmark)
Appraisal Date              February 1994
Projected Board Date        June 1994
Background
1.   In 1987, the Government of Mozambique embarked on an economic
rehabilitation program which sought to guide the economy through a
transitional period from socialism to a market economy, and onto a
steady growth path during the 1990s. Significant reform has already
taken place, however, substantial additional reforms are still
required. The signing of a peace accord between the Government and
Renamo in 1992, should it result in the permanent cessation of
hostilities, will place the Mozambique economy in a good position to
achieve substantial growth throughout the remainder of the decade.
Problems within the financial and enterprise sectors have been
identified as key constraints to further growth in the economy. Within
the financial sector, payment systems have largely broken down, banking
services are limited and inefficiently provided, and financial
innovation in terms of institutions and instruments has been virtually
non-existent. Within the enterprise sector, production and export has
declined, employment levels have been increasing, the sector is
increasingly operating with obsolete equipment, and a large component
of the sector remains in State hands. In addition, there is an urgent
need to continue the program of macroeconomic reform commenced under
the Economic Rehabilitation Credit (ERC) -- particularly with respect
to strengthening the macro-monetary capabilities of the central bank
(Banco de Mozambique) and pursuing further reform on the budgetary
front. With the continuation of the peace process and the first multi
party elections in 1994 -- supported by high (5.6 percent) real growth
and declining levels of inflation -- it is important that the
adjustment process be further strengthened and supported, by an ongoing
program of macroeconomic and sector reform.
Objectives
2.   The Second Economic Recovery Credit would build upon reforms
commenced in previous operations -- particularly the ERC. In
particular, the SERC would seek to develop a strong macro-monetary
capability within the central bank, while simultaneously seeking to
develop the central bank in other key areas including banking



supervision, foreign exchange management, legal and accounting. The
credit will also support on-going budgetary reforms, as well as
supporting new initiatives in this area. Support will also be provided
to assist in reform in the financial and enterprise sectors. The
overall objectives are, therefore, to enhance monetary policy
management and to support a program of reform in key sectors which can
promote growth in a newly peaceful environment.
Description
3.   The total credit of US$180.0 million has four components.    The
first component involves strengthening the central bank -- but
particularly within the area of indirect macro-monetary management.
Developing a good statistical data base, upon which informed monetary
policy decisions can be based is key to this process. In addition, it
will be equally important to develop indirect tools of monetary
management -- including a discount rate policy, interest rate
liberalization, Treasury Bill issues, and so on. Support will also be
provided to strengthen the banking supervision department of the
central bank, in its ability to supervise financial institutions.
Other support will be provided to exchange control, the legal
department and the accounting department. The second component is
financial sector reform and involves leveling the playing field between
the various financial institutions such that they can all operated on
the same basis. It also supports the entry of new banking institutions
in direct competition with the existing State owned banks. Reform of
the State owned banks, and their downsizing and preparation for
privatization, is also an important component of this credit. The
third component of the credit involves enterprise reform. Support is
provided here for the further privatization of large state owned
companies through an existing privatization agency established in the
Ministry of Finance; in addition, developing a Strategy Paper for
reform to the business environment is also a requirement of this
component of the credit. Last, the credit supports at least a
maintenance of expenditures on health and education (in real terms) as
established under the ERC. It also supports the integration of the
National Reconstruction Plan (PRN) within the three year rolling
investment plan (PTIP), and the funding of the Salary Incentive Fund
(SIF) within the 1994 and 1995 budgets, for key members of the civil
service.
Environmental Aspects
4.   The project will have no environmental impact.    The proposed
environmental assessment category is C.
Implementation
5.   The central bank -- Banco de Mozambique has the primary
responsibility for this operation. The project coordinator is a rector
within the bank. Close coordination will have to also be maintained,
however, with the Ministry of Finance -- particularly for the
enterprise reform/privatization and budgetary elements of the program.
Institutional Capacity
-2-



6.   The central bank is one of the best Government institutions in
terms of institutional capacity. Staff are reasonably well trained and
educated, and most have a long history of work with the central bank.
Nonetheless, support will still be required in critical areas of policy
formulation and implementation. Support is being provided by donors,
both bilateral and multilateral. Close coordination has been
maintained between the donors to ensure that full
cooperation/coordination is maintained between institutions supporting
this sector.
Benefits and Risks
7.   A major risk for the overall adjustment operation is a lack of
sufficiently trained manpower. The companion Financial Sector Capacity
Building (FS CB) will address this particular constraint. A further
risk is that the political process will not proceed smoothly -- leading
to a future disruption of economic activity.
8.   An important justification is that, with the advent of the peace
accord, Mozambique is well placed to rejuvenate economic activity and
launch into a period of strong growth. Further reform of the macro-
economy, as well as support for reforms in the financial and enterprise
sectors is extremely important within an economy which will now be able
to perform productively in a peaceful environment.
Contact Point - Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:    (202)522-1500
Note:      This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



