CREDIT NUMBER 2628 MOZ
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 , 1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2628 MOZ
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         J    .L  9                    , 1996, between
REPUBLIC     OF    MOZAMBIQUE             Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic Recovery Credit) dated June 17, 1994
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the
financing of its structural adjustment program as described in recital (A) of the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)    the Borrower and the Association wish to simplify the procedures for the
disbursement of the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit
At-gmPment (the Credit) and for the purrse to amend the Development Credit
Agreement as herein provided; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of Section 1.01 of the Development
Credit Agreement are deleted in their entirety and the following paragraphs are
substituted therefor:
"(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
" 'Project' means the program referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement in support of which the Credit is
made.";
(b)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)    Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of


﻿-2-
the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement.";
(d)    Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services provided from, any such territory; or (b)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Natiors Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
(e)    The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)    Section 9.04 is deleted, and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are
renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(g)    Section 9.05 (c), as so renumbered, is modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.".
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by
deleting the word "and" at the end of paragraph (h) the following new paragraph (j) is
added:
"and; (j) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the
Development Credit Agreement".


﻿-3-
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to
read:
"(a)   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the
Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)    The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to tl-- Association
the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter
maintain, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be deposited by the Association into such deposit account.
(c)    The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been
used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the
provisions of said Schedule 1, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association: (i) deposit into the deposit account referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section an amount equal to the amount of said
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.".
Section 1.04. Paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by substituting the words "Schedules 3 and 4" by the words
"Schedules 2 and 3".
Section 1.05. Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to
read:
"Section 3.03. Upon the request of the Association, the Borrower shall:
(a)    have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;


﻿-4-
(b)    furnish to the Association as soon as possible but in any case not
later than four months after the date of the Association's request for such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c)    furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said deposit account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested".
Section 1.06. Paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by deleting the words "including those of the Special Account"
after the word "Section".
Section 1.07. Paragraph (c) of Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement is deleted in its entirety.
Section 1.08. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement are modified to read:
"For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)    expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)    expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-
groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the
Bank by notice to the Borrower:


﻿-5-
Group                Sub-grup            Description of Items
112                                     Alcoholic beverages
121                                     Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                                     Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                      Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                      Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones. unworked or
worked
718                 718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728.43                                   Tobacco processing machinery
897                 897.3               Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates);
(d)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption;
(e)    expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods; and


﻿-6-
(f)    in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied
from, such territories; or (ii) on account of any payment to persons or
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations".
Section 1.09. Paragraph 4 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be amended
to read paragraph "2" and the words "Schedule 3" and "Schedule 4" respectively in (A)
(iii) and (B) (iii) shall be amended to read "Schedule 2" and "Schedule 3" respectively.
Section 1.10. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, is deleted in its
entirety and Schedule 3 is renumbered as Schedule 2.
Section 1.11. Schedule 5 of the Development Credit Agreement is deleted in its
entirety.
ARTICLE H
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.02. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not
been executed.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /C                    ucl~c
K           Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
C'       Regional Vice President
Africa


