CREDIT NUMBER,)-       MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER Ito    MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          \AI\4              , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borr wer) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 6, 1994 (hereinafter called the l -tter of Development Policy),
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and
(B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to


﻿- 2 -
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BM" means Banco de Mocambigue, the Central Bank of the
Borrower established and operating pursuant to Law No.1/92 Lei
Organica do Banco de Mocambigue dated January 3, 1992;
(b) "BCM" means Banco Comercial de Mocambigue, established and
operating pursuant to its statute approved by Decree No. 3/92 of the
Council of Ministers of the Borrower, dated February 25, 1992 ;
(c) "BPD" means Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento, established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 6/77, dated December 31, 1977;
(d) "BSTM" means Banco Standard Totta de Mocambigue,
established and operating pursuant to the Despacho dated July 2,
1966 published in the Boletim Official No. 30, dated July 23, 1966,;
(e) "BFE" means Banco Fomento e Exterior, established and
operating pursuant to the Decree No. 36/92, of October 27, 1992 of
the Borrower;
(f) "BPA" means Banco Portugues do Atlantico, established and
operating pursuant to Decree No. 35/92, dated October 27, 1992 of
the Borrower;
(g)   "SITC"   means  the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and


﻿- 3 -
(i)   "Strategic Plans" means the Plan      referred  to  in
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, prepared by BCM and
BPD for the purpose of developing a strategy for their future
operation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-one million and seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 30, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year


﻿shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2004 and ending March 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,


﻿- 5 -
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing


﻿- 6 -
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year       after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of Banco de Mocambique (BM) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Departamento de Relacoes Internacionais
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O.Box 423
Maputo
Mozambique
Cable address:                Telex:
MOBANCO                   6576/7
Maputo


﻿- 8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out
of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                            Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked


﻿- 10 -
Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country, expen-
ditures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory of
such other country;
(c)   payments made for expenditures for goods prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of twenty-eight million and
three   hundred  and   forty  thousand   Special  Drawing   Rights
(SDR 28,340,000) may be made on account of payments made four months
before the date of this Agreement;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to   (i)  SDR   28,340,000  for  petroleum   products,  and   (ii)
SDR 28,340,000 for foodstuffs.


﻿- 11 -
3.    Withdrawals  for  expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 may be
required by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
(A) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of fifty-six million six hundred and
forty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 56,640,000) unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (B) after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of ninety-nine million one hundred and seventy
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 99,170,000) unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with
the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods to be imported by the
Borrower, its public sector entities, or its private sector,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 13 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   For fixed-price contracts, the     invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
(f)   Goods procured under international competitive pro-
cedures shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a
third party inspection firm.
2.    Contracts for procurement of goods by the public sector
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, but less than
$1,000,000 may be awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of qualified suppliers acceptable to the Association and
eligible under the "Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures
set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56) thereof).
3.    Except as provided in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, all
contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 shall be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contract for procurement of goods by the private sector, to
cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be made, in
accordance with established commercial practice, provided that such
contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of


﻿- 14 -
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries,
except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the
Association may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph
3.5 of the Guidelines.
5.    Proprietary equipment and spareparts may be procured directly
from the suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
7.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
8.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 7 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (A) (iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
In accordance with the Program, the Borrower has:
(a)   completed a final draft of a Foreign Exchange Act as
referred to in paragraph 29 of the Letter of Development Policy, and
has submitted it to the Assembleia da Republica (the Parliament);
(b)   formally adopted the Strategic Plans referred to in
paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development Policy, that shall have
been prepared and approved by BCM and BPD, in form and substance
acceptable to the Association;
(c)   through  BM, completed   the  first  loan   portfolio
classification of BCM, BPD, BSTM, BFE and BPA, as referred to in
paragraph 25 of the Letter of Development Policy; and completed the
process of transferring large non-performing BCM and BPD clients to
a "collection only" unit as referred to in paragraph 36 of the
Letter of Development Policy;
(d)   introduced a new system of allocating credit ceilings to
the commercial banks, satisfactory to the Association, as referred
to in paragraph 41 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(e)   furnished to the Association: (i) the results of the
Borrower's review of the implementation of the action plan
undertaken by the national airline (LAM) to establish LAM on sound
financil footing, as referred to in paragraph 49 of the Letter of
Development Policy; and (ii) a plan for settling the debts of the
Agriculture Marketing Board (Agricom) to the banking system, as
referred to in paragraph 49 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(f)   taken all necessary governmental action to remove the
conditioned price controls in respect of eight goods referred to in
paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(g)   for the purpose of strengthening the management capacity
of BCM, and in accordance with paragraph 40 of the Letter of
Development Policy, initiated negotiations with potential providers
of management services;


﻿- 16 -
(h)   introduced a broader central bank discount policy, as
referred to in paragraph 21 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(i)   provided, to the Association, audited 1993 financial
statements for BM, as referred to in paragraph 30 of the Letter of
Development Policy, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association; and
(j)   allocated in the 1995 national budget, an amount
equivalent to no more than 1% of gross domestic product for all
subsidies to the enterprises owned by the Borrower, as referred to
in paragraph 17 of the Letter of Development Policy.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (B) (iii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
In accordance with the Program, the Borrower has:
(a)   designed and launched a pilot Treasury Bill auction
referred to in paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy;
(b)   completed draft Foreign Exchange regulations for the
commercial banks as referred to in paragraph 29 of the Letter of
Development Policy;
(c)   furnished  to  the Association, a progress     report
demonstrating that the National Railway (CFM) is implementing, in a
timely fashion, a restructuring program, as referred to in paragraph
50 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(d)   taken all steps within its control to bring to the point
of sale at least seven of the enterprises owned by the Borrower
referred to in paragraph 48 of the Letter of Development Policy.
For the purpose of this paragraph "taking all steps within its
control to bring to the point of sale" requires the Borrower to
have: (i) carried out a valuation of the enterprise, if necessary;
(ii) prepared a prospectus or dossier for the enterprise in question
as the case may be; (iii) solicited offers directly or through
advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers or other media, for at
least majority ownership in the enterprise; (iv) evaluated any
offers and selected successful bidder(s), if applicable; and (v)
invited the potential buyer or the successful bidder(s), as the case
may be, to enter into good faith negotiations.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shell be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which


﻿- 19 -
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents qnd
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will   be  utilized   in  making  payments   for  eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 20 -
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide ,such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Lsscciation, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds oni deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿4 1j


