Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
, A / '       j  /   v  .~ /  
Report No. 12711-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPO1ET (LARIS) PROJECT
MAY 26, 1994
MI CROGRAPH ICS
Report No:         12711 RU
Type: SAR
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
Ths d&;ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
Unit of Currency = Ruble (RB)
Exchange Rate: Rubles per US Dollar
Moscow Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange/Foreign Exchange Auction Market (VEB) Ra&es
Period          End of
Period             Average          Period
1989                 9                 9
1990                19                23
1991                62               169
1992
I  Quarter         177               160
II Quarter         134               144
III Quarter        178               254
IV Quarter         396               415
1993
I  Quarter         580               684
II Quarter         968             1,060
III Quarter      1,028             1,169
IV Quarter       1,206             1,247
1994
I  Quarter       1,591             1,753
II Quarterl      1,825             1,895
l As of May 24, 1994



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AKKOR:  Association of Peasant Farms and        OECD:        Organization for Economic
Cooperatives of Russia                           Cooperation and Development
ARIS:     Agricultural Reform Implementatio'i   PDU:         Project Development Unit
Support                         PPAR:        Project Performance and Audit Report
ASAL:    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan    RSFSR:       Russian Soviet Federated Socialist
BTI:      Bureau of Technical Inventory                           Republic
CEM:      Country Economic Memorandum           SA:           Special Account
CIF:      Cost, Insurance and Freight           SLC:         Russian Committee for Land
CIS:      Commonwealth of Independent States                       Resources and Land
DIFI:     Department of International Finance                      Management
and Investment                  SOEs:        Statements of Expenditure
EU:       European Union                        STF:         Systemic Transformation Facility
FS;,.-J:  Former Soviet Union                   TCP:         Technical Cooperation Program
GIS:      Geographic Information System         USAID:       US Agency for International
GKI:      State Committee for the                                 Development
Management of State Property    USDA:        US Department of Agriculture
GPS:      Global Positioning System             USSR:         Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
MCA       Ministry of Civilian Aviation         VAT:          Value Added Tax
MOAF:   Ministry of Agriculture and Food        VISKhAGI:   All-Russian Institute for Agricultural
Aeropho'.ogeodetic Research
GLOSSARY
Agroprombank:       Agroindustrial Bank
Goskomstat:         State Statistical Committee
Kolkhoz:            Collective farm
Kray:               Administrative region
Oblast:             Region or province - a territorial administrative unit
Okrugs:             Semi-autonomous area located in a kray or oblast
Rayon:              District - an administrative unit below oblast
RosNITs 'Zemlya":   Russian Center for Scientific Support to Land Reform
Sovkhoz.            State farm
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



- iv -
RussIAN FEDERATiON
LAND REFoRm ImPLEmENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
TABLE OF CoNTENs
Loan and Project Sumary ..................................                                                vi
I. The Macroeconomic Setting .1
A. Econom. Performance .1
B. Country Assistance Strategy.                                                                    2
II. The Agricudtural Setor and Land..                                                                      3
A. Agriculture in the Russian Economy.                                                             3
B. Evolution in Agricultural Production.                                                           3
C. Progress in Agricultural Reforms.                                                               4
D. Progress in Land Reform5 
E. Land Reform Related Issues.                                                                     8
F. Bank's Lending Strategy for Agriculture .11
G. IFC's Involvement in Land Reform ......................... ....... 12
H. Bank's Strategy to Promote Land Reform .13
I. Rationale for Bank Participation .15
IHI. Bank Experience and Lessons .15
A. Experience with Land Projects .15
B. Lessons from Bank Experience .16
C. Proposed Project Design .17
Wv. The Project    ..18
A. Project Objectives .18
B. Project Concept .18
C. Project Components .19
D. Land Cadastre Mapping .19
E. Land Reg.tration System .21
F. Istitutional Development .23
G. Geographical Coverage .25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (October/November 1993) led by Mohinder S. Mudahar
(Task Manager). The report was prepared by the core Bank team of Mohinder S. Mudabar and Edward Cook (EC3AI).
Others who participated in the Bank missions and/or contributed to this report include George Russell (ACTCO),
Jonathan Pavluk (LEGEC), Peter Dale, Philip Woodcock, Marcus Heywood, E. John Pryor, Robin Waters, S. Balakumar,
Charles Morse, John Liakakis, Leon Hesser, Michiel Hardon and Paul van der Molen (Consultants). Wayne Ringlien
assisted from the Bank's Resident Mission in Moscow. James Goering (ECIAG) and Karen Brooks (AGRAP) were the
peer reviewers. Claude Blanchi (ECAVP) and Marc Blanc (EC3DR) provided operational guidance. Michael A. Gould
and Russell J. Cheethm are the managing Division Chief and Department Diector, respectively, for this operation.



- v -
V.     Cost Estimates and Financial Aspects  ...............................  25
A.  Cost Estimates ............................................   25
B.  Financing Plan ............................................   27
C.  Special Account ...........................................   28
D. Flow of Funds .28
E. Cost Recovery .29
F. Procurement .29
G.  Disbursement  ........         ..........  .........................   31
H. Accounting ...........................  32
1. Reporting ...........................                                                    32
J. Auditing ...........................  33
VI.  Project Organization and Management ............................... 33
A. Project Management .................................. 33
B. Project Implementation .................................. 36
C. Implementation Schedule .................................. 37
D. Supervision Plan .................................   38
VIl. Project Bnefits and Risks .40
A. Project Benefits .40
B. Project Beneficiaries .40
C. Environmental Aspects .41
D. Project Risks .41
VIII.  Agreements and Recommendations .................................   43
A. Project kgreements .......................................... 43
B. Recommendation ............................................ 44
Annexes
Annex 1: Major Laws, Decrees and Resolutions Pertaining to Land Reform .............. 46
Annex 2: Background on Land Registration and Adjudication ....................... 50
Annex 3: Training Module . ............................................. 55
Annex 4: Technical Assistance Module ..................................... 58
Annex 5: Detailed Project and Component Costs .....    .... 68
Annex 6: Procurement Procedures and Arrangements ............................ 76
Annex 7: Accounting and Financial Reporting Procedures ......................... 88
Annex 8: Legal Status of Participating Agencies ............................... 92
Annex 9: Project Development Unit and Project Implementation  ..................... 96
Annex 10 Implementation Plan ...........                ..............................  104
Annex 11: Supervision Plan and Schedule        ................          ...................  113
Annex 12: List of Documents Available in the Project File .........       ..       ............. 120
Map
IBRD 25148: Russian Federation: Land Reform  Wplementation Support (LARIS) Project Area



- vi -
RussiAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SuppoRT (LARIS) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Russian Federation
Beneficiry:        Russian Committee for Land Resources and Land Management (SLC).
Amount:             US$80 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's Standard Variable Interest Rate
Project Objectives:   The main objective of the project is to accelerate the implementation of ongoing
and future land reforms by introducing a uniform land registration system
consistent with the development of markets in land and real estate and
recognition of the right to private ownership of land and by strengthening the
Russian Land Committee's capacity to implement such a system anc to issue
titles to property owners. The project would thus help ,ay the foundation for an
efficient agricultural sector based on private ownership of land and market
principles determining land transactions and strengthen propert- rights for non-
agricultural land owners as well.
Project Description:  The project would support a comprehensive land registration system in Russia.
The project would support the development of an automated land registration
system, a supplemental land registration program, development of appropriate
land cadastre mapping and provision of training and technical assistance for land
valuation, development control and legal, judicial and operational aspects of a
land registration system to facilitate buying, selling, leasing and mortgaging of
land. The automated land registration system will be implemented in ten oblasts
with superior implementation capabilities. Land cadastre mapping will cover
these selected ten oblasts. Supplemental land registration support will be
provided to a maximum of 500 selected rayons.
Benefits:          The project is expected to have substantial direct and indirect financial and
economic benefits. The project's potential benefits inciude enhanced economic
incentives, agricultural productivity and improved land use decisions. Land title
registration is critical fox developing a land market, improving the system for
land taxation and establishing land as security for commercial credit. The project
will assist in improving the cadastre in both rural and sub-urban areas where
cadastre mapping is largely out-of-date or non-existent. With the concept of
private property in land just recently reinstated, Russia has the opportunity to put
in place a coherent national system of land registration that will minimize costs
and facilitate the conduct of land transactions and the development of a land
market. The project will lay the foundation for future policy reforms for land
and the agricultural sector. The project will also train a large number of Russian
experts to prepare and implement land reform and potential future agricultural



- vii -
projects (land reform, land development and farm restructuring) to be financed
by international financial institutions.
Risks:              The main risk is that the project may face delays in implementation. Factors that
could cause problems in project implementation are: the current unstable
macroeconomic enviromnent and its possible further deterioration, lack of
political consensus on land reform, lack of counterpart funds, lack of trained
personnel, lack of organizational stability of agencies responsible for
implementation, and lack of experience in implementing World Bank projects.
The project would introduce necessary measures in the form of legal covenants,
training and technical assistance to minimize these risks. The establishment of
a strong Project Development Unit, with appropriate support for procurement,
disbursement, accounting, project management and technical aspects, is also
empected to mitigate some of the potential project risks. The project would be
intensively supervised (including a project launch workshop, annual reviews and
a cumprehensive mid-term review) so that appropriate and timely actions are
taken to avoid and overcome implementation problems.
Environment:        The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The move
toward private land ownership promoted by this project is expected to foster
more prudent use of land and other natural resources. Positive spinoffs are also
expected to occur through improved land registry information made available to
environmenial agencies to enforce land use restrictions, officially register national
parks and monitor land use more closely. However, any environmental concerns
will be addressed during implenmentation by applying Bank's and country's
environmental requirements and guidelines. In addition, public awareness of
agricultural environmental issues will be created through appropriately designed
environmental information monitoring, information dissemination, technical
assistance and training programs.  The project has a "C" environmental
assessment category.



- viii -
Project Costs
Local    Foreign     Total      Component as
Project Component                                       j     Percent
(US$ Million equivalent)        of Total
Land Cadastre Mapping             15.3      31.9      47.2              41.0
Land Registration System          14.7      26.7      41.4              36.0
Institutional Development          0.0       4.5       4.5               3.9
Project Development Unit           0.4       4.0       4.4               3.9
Physical Contingencies           1.0        5.9       6.9               6.0
Price Contingencies              3.6        7.0      10.6               9.2    |
Total Project Cost              35.0o      80.0    115.0    J         100.0    l
Percent of Total            1  30.4        69.6    100.0                       l
a Of local costs, US$10.6 million are import duties. in addition, payable VAT (approximately
US$16 million) is not included in the project cost since it is refundable within about a year.
Financing Plan
Local  I Foreign  |Total  | Source as Percent
Financing Source             (U. Miion equivalent)           of Total
EIBRP                        1 -            80.0   J  80.0              69.6
Federal Government           J 35.0          -        35.0              30.4
[  Total                        35.0   J   80.0    115.0              100.0
Percent of Total            I   30.4       69.6    100.0                       l
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year (ending June 30)
Disburseuent __-__(US$ Milion equivalent)
95           96            97            98            99
Annual           10.0         20.0          25.0          15.0          10.0
Cumulative       10.0         30.0    j    55.0           70.0          80.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Category: Not applicable



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPoRT
I
THE MACROECONOMIC SErING
A. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
1.     The collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU), following the historic political events in 1991,
resulted in massive disruptions in all spheres of economic activity. The immediate impact was a sharp
decline in real output with both industrial output and agricultural output falling by 8 percent. Real
investment fell in excess of 25 percent. In January 1992, Russia launched an ambitious and
unprecedented economic reform program, which consisted of liberalization of prices, exchange rate and
the trade regime.' However, high fiscal deficits caused an explosion of inflation, with retail prices
increasing six-fold and severely changing the agricultural input-output price relationships. The fiscal
program, though limited to the first quarter of 1992, imposed new taxes and slashed government spending
with the Central Bank pursuing an austere credit policy. The resulting spectacular rise in inter-enterprise
arrears and fears of a collapse in industrial output led the Central Bank to reverse course and loosen
credit reins.
2.     Some respite from the difficuli macro-economic situation in 1992 was obtained during the first
half of 1993, due to the stabilization measures enforced by the pro-reform Government to avoid hyper-
inflation. The inflation rate declined from 24 percent per month in the first quarter to 19 percent in May
and 16 percent in June 1993. Decline in industrial production and real wages slowed. Economic
indicators generally worsened during the second half of the year, with the monthly rate of inflation
exceeding 20 percent during the third quarter of 1993 as compared to the Government's target of 11
percent. Output resumed its fall after a period of relative stability in late 1992 and early 1993, with a
drop of 12 percent in real GDP in 1993, representing an accumulated fall of nearly 40 percent since
1990. Agricultural production fell by 4 percent for a cumulative drop of 17 percent since 1990. While
exports remained roughly unchanged in 1993, as compared to the previous year, recorded imports for
the economy fell by more than 25 percent. Imports of food a-A agricultural commodities fell to about
one-half of their level in 1992. Decline in imports, therefore, v    considerably more than the decline in
output during the same period. The decline in output is likely to continue in 1994, although at a slower
rate, with a rebound of growth not anticipated until late in 1995 or in 1996. Declining output has not
yet led to mass open unemnployment, and this remains a potential challenge in the near future.
3.    Significant progress has been made in the privatization of state enterprises in the last two years.
In late 1992, the Govermnent launched a voucher-based mass privatization program under which vouchers
were issued to the population to be used independently to buy shares in enterprises or through
approximately 300 investment fundxs participating in the privatization program. By the end of 1993, nore
than 7,000 medium and large enterprises had been privatized this way, representing about 30 percent
1.    More informaion about the mac-economic situation dunng an early penod of reform is available in the
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) published by the World Bank and entitled "Russian Economic
Reform: Crossing the Threshold of Strucral Change," September 1992.



2
of the industrial work force. In addition, approximately 60-70 thousand small-scale enterprises were
privatized under arrangements predating the voucher program.
B. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
4.      The objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy is to effectively participate in the overall
structural transformation of the Russian economy based largely on the private sector. More specifically,
the Bank's strategy envisages: (a) support for implementation of market oriented sector-specific reforms,
initially in selected areas where visible results could be achieved quickly; (b) finance for large scale
medium-term investments in key sectors to improve economic efficiency and protect the environment;
(c) mobilization of foreign direct private investment in productive sectors of the economy; (d) support
for the establishment of a social safety net to protect the disadvantaged during tbe reform process and in
labor force restructuring; and (e) support for relevant human resource skills development and necessary
institutional capacity to implement reforms.
5.      The Bank has prepared a comprehensive study that outlines a strategy for transforming the food
and agricultural sector in Russia.2 The Bank's involvement in Russia so far consists of a mix of
rehabilitation, technical assistance and investment operations. The Board approved four loans for Russia
in FY 93 and, so far, two loans in FY 94: (a) the First Rehabilitation Loan of US$ 600 million in August
1992 (Ln. 35130), which included US$ 150 million for agriculture to finance imports of critical
agricultural inputs; (b) the Employment Assistance and Social Protection Loan of US$ 70 million in
October 1992 (Ln. 35320); (c) the Privatization Implementation Assistance Project of US$ 90 million in
November 1992 (Ln. 35460); (d) the Oil Rehabilitat;on Project of US$ 610 million in June 1993 (Ln.
36230); (e) and tht, Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project of US$300 million in February 1994
(J,n. 37060). The Financial Institutions Development Project of US$ 200 million was approved by the
Board on May 19, 1994.
6.      The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed with the Executive Directors on May 19,
1994. The CAS identified three basic objectives for Bank assistance in Russia: (a) to support the
development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector initiatives; (b) to encourage the
redirection of public sector involvement in the economy toward the establishment of open and
competitive markets and public infrastructure; and (c) to establish the Eank as a trusted and reliable
development partner through the financing of high priority public sector investments and policy advice
on key economic and sectoral issues. Due to significant implementation problems being encountered, the
CAS puts priority on the development of core investment projects that are largely unaffected by
macroeconomic instability and do not require difficult policy conditionality. A conmiensurate lending
prcgram (the intermediate case) for FY95 would aim to deliver 7 or more projects in the range of
US$1.0-1.5 billion (not including quick disbursing adjustment lending).
7.      The proposed Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS) Project fits well within the CAS
since it is designed to develop essential public infrastructure. The project will strengthen private property
rights and is necessary for the development of well-functioning markets in land and real estate. By
promoting the development of the private sector and the transition to a market economy, the project will
accelerate the process of farm restructuring, inprove incentives for investment in agriculture, and
contribute to economic recovery of the agricultural sector. In other words, this project will lay the
foundation for private agriculture and will contribute to the overall reform, macroeconomic stabilization
and economic growth.
2.     This strategy is contained in "Food and Agricultural Policy Reforms in the Former USSR: An Agenda
for the Transition," Studies of Economies in Transition, Number 1, World Bank, September 1992; and
in Background Working Papers, which focus on different aspects of the agricultural sector.



3
I1[
THE AGRICULIURAL SECTOR AND LAND
A. AGRICULTURE IN THE RussIAN ECONOMY
8.      The agricultural sector plays a vital role in Russia's economy. First, the agro-industrial
complex is large and accounts for about 25 percent of the net material product, employment and
investment in Russia. Second, Russia is enduwed with extensive natural resources with large agricultural
potential, but at present these resources are not being used efficiently. Third, it absorbs a large share
of budgetary and hard currency resources, and any improvements in sector performance could have a
large impact on containing the budget and balance of paymetnts deficits. Fourth, consumers allocate as
much as 50 percent of their annual income to meet food requirements. Finally, agriculture is an
important sector to facilitate transition to narket-oriented private enterprises which potentially could have
enormous spill-over effects in other sectors of the economy.
9.      Improved performance of the agricultural sector is one of the most imnportant elements in
stabilizing the Russian economy and accelerating the ongoing structural transformation. Despite the
sector's potential for higher efficiency and growth, overall agricultural production and distribution remain
inefficient. Agricultural production is declining, yields are low, physical losses are high, output and input
distribution systems are inefficient, prices are distorted, profitability is low (particularly for the livestock
sector), and consumer and producer subsidies still remnain high. Besides the prevailing macroeconomic
imbalances, deteriorating terms-of-trade, inefficient farm structure, and lack of adequate incentives,
competitive markets, Lechnical and market informnation and a well fur'ct,oning credit system have % -fset
the expected benefits of reform in the short-run. The problems of access to inputs, markets, information
and credits are more serious for the ilewly emerging private farmers as compared to existing or
restructured collective or state farns.
B. EVOLUTION IN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIoN
Production Performance
10.    Despite a rich natural resource base, Russia's agricultural production performance has been far
below its potential. Production and consumption of agricultural commnodities are dominated by the
livestock sector. Agricultural production is generally inefficient in comparison with Western countries
and labor productivity is lower, despite relatively high shares of total capital investment allocated to
agriculture in recent decades. Crop yields are roughly 10-30 percent lower while livestock yields are 40-
50 percent 1ower than in agro-climatically similar regions in the West.
11.     The agricultural growth rate has been steadily declining since the 1970's and turned negative
beginning in 1990, with few hopeful signs of immediate reversal. During the 1980s, agricultural
production grew by less than two percent per year, allowing for modest increases in per capita food
availability. From its peak levei in 1989, gross agricultural production fell by 4 percent in 1990, a
similar amount in 1991, 8 percent in 1992, and 4 percent in 1993 for a cumulative decline of nearly 20
percent from 1989 to 1993. The livestock sector accounts for about 60 percent of the gross value of
agricultural production. Within the crop sector, over three-uarter of the arable area is allocated to
produce foodgrains, feedgrains and fodder crops. Livestock production fell by 23 percent between 1989
and 1993 while crop production fell by 12 percent. Grain production was at record level in 1990,
declined substantially in 1991, was at near recorc, level in 1992 and was slightly lower in 1993.



4
12.     The reasons for relatively poor agricultural (particularly livestock) production performance are
many. Some of the critical factors are (a) overall deterioration in the economic environment; (b) lack
of appropriate economic incentives; (c) disruptions in trade and marketing for agricultural inputs and
commodities; (d) dependence on state monopolies for production and distribution; (e) reduced public and
private financial resources; and (f) weak linkages between agricultural research and application. Thu poor
production performance and low levels of agricultural production led to a heavy reliance on imports of
basic agricultural commodities and a net drain on foreign exchange resources, with imports greatly
exceeding exports.
Production Prospecb
13.     The prospects for agricultural production are largely dependent on the Government's ability wo
hasten the implementation of a wide range of agricultural reforms. So far, large state and collective
farms have continued to rely on large subsidies and a high level of Government intervention. The
governnii: c'ecrees and agricultural policies pursued during 1992 and 1993 indicate significant change
towards reducing Federal Government intervention at all stages of agricultural production, distribution
and marketing. However, recent political developments point to a possible reversal of this trend.
Furthernore, there exists a wide variation in policies and reform initiatives pursuec by different oblast
governments. If political consensus could be achieved to continue economic reform, then the prospects
for implementation of existing and proposed agricultural reforms would be greatly strengthened, transition
to market economy could be accelerated and a decline in agricultural productivity and production could
be reversed. Building an appropriate institutional foundation for the imnplementation of agricultural
reformns is critical for its transformation.
C. PROGRESS IN AGRICULTURAL REFORMS
14.     Agricultural reforms were launched in earnest in 1990 with the passing of legislation on land
reform and private ownership, which reestablished the concept of individual or corporate ownership of
property including: (a) the right to farm land by private farmers; (b) the freedom to enjoy the profits
therefrom; and (c) the right to acquire and dispose of property by sale, lease or inheritance.
15.     A number of significant Presidential decrees were issued in late 1991 and in early 1992 which
liberalized prices for a large number of commodities, reduced agricultural subsidies, laid the basis for
privatization of state enterprises, established a framework for the reorganization of state and collective
farms, and developed mechanisms of support for the creation of private household farms. During 1992
and 1993, further steps were taken to support the agricu"ltural reform effort. The system of administrative
allocation of inputs was abandoned and the size of centralized state orders for the sale of agricultural
conmnodities was significantly reduced but, in many ca-t sa, was replaced by similar market interventions
by the local governments. In addition, a specialized program for privatizing input distribution,
agricultural service, and food processing enterprises was introduced. Significant progress has also been
made in the area of land reform and is discessed in detail in section D, below.
16.     The prospects for advancing agricultural reforms are uncertain because of a lack of clarity on
the responsibility for policy formulation, existence of monopolistic structures in agricultural nmarketing,
a continuing lack of an adequate legal framework for reform, and a lack of consensus about the strategy
for sector development.  In order to ensure sustained momentum, institutions responsible for
implementing ongoing reforms need to be supported. Agricultural reforms broadly focus on liberalization
of prices, reduction in subsidies, demonopolization of markets, privatization of eiterprises,
commercialization of banks and land reform.



5
17.    The chaotic economic transition has contributed to serious short-term disruptions in input supply
and agricultural marketing, deterioration of agricultural terms of trade and decline in profitability and
farm investment. However, reforms have triggered restructuring of the food and agricultural sector (both
consumption and production patterns) at all levels, which is essential to improve its efficiency and
productivity in the long-term. The transformation of the agricultural sector consists of a gradual shift
from livestock to crop production, privatization of marketing channels for both inputs and outputs,
emergence of new farm organizations and privatization of land ownership.
D. PROGRESS IN LAND REFORM
Land Use and Resources
18.     The total surface area of Russia is 1.71 billion hectares, of which 222 million hectares are
agricultural land, the remainder being covered by forests (1 billion hectares), water, marshes, towns,
cities and wastes. Almost 60 percent (132 million hectares) of the agricultural land is arable and 30
percent (65 rnillion hectares) is pastures.
19.     Following 1917, the state steadily usurped all rights to the ownership of land. Beginning in
the late 1920's, individual farmers were organized into collectLve farms and each collective member
continued to hold shares. State farms were developed as state enterprises staffed by employees. By the
1980s the two types of farms were virtually indistinguishable. The 12,000 or so collectives averaged
6,600 hectares and a simnilar number of state farms averaged 9,000 hectares. Together, these two types
of farms accounted for 97 percent of agricultural land.
20.     Private sector agriculture was permnitted on the household plots of collective members, farm
employees and urban residents. Gross production on these plots, which covered about 3 percent of the
arable land, was disproportionately large by comparison with the state sector. Plot size varied generally
between 0.2 and 0.5 hectares. Individuals did not own these plots but were granted use rights by local
government councils. Use rights were recorded by the collective or state farm or at the Bureau of
Technical Inventory and were, in practice, inheritable.
21.    Although the land itself was state owned, individuals could "own" the buildings on the land over
which they enjoyed use rights. The ownership of buildings was and is still registered at the Bureau of
Technical Inventory in each rayon. In this way the concept of ownership of houses and dachas continued
and a market existed for transactions in the buildings and in effect the use of the land. The transfer price
was officially controlled but, in practice, side payments by purchasers reflected a market price.
Land Reform Progress
22.     Beginning in late 1990, a set of laws, decrees, and resolutions was issued which represented
a major shift in Russian land policies (see Annex 1). First, the right to private ownership of land was
established. Second, a framework was put in place whereby restructuring of state and collective farms
and the establishment of private family farms were encouraged. These major legal and policy changes
have introduced tremendous burdens on the state in the area of land administration. A land registration
system needs to be established to record property rights in land and facilitate the establishment of a land
market. A large amount of cadastral work will also be required in the process of registering property
rights in land. As land markets begin to function, demands on the land registration system will continue
to increase. A background on forms of land tenure and procedures for adjudication and registration is
provided in Annex 2.



6
23.    Establishment of private property in land. The "Law on Land Reform" (November 23, 1990)
in combination with the "Law on Ownership in the RSFSR" (December 24, 1990) established the concept
of property rights in land for individuals, legal entities, and the state. A revision to Article 12 of the
Constitution, introduced on December 15, 1990, confirmed the right to private ownership of land, but
with the limitation that land could not be resold within a period of ten years except back to the state.
24.     The debate over property rights in land continued for the next two years. A major legal
document, the Land Code, was issued in April 1991. It listed a number of conditions under which
property rights in land could be forfeited, mostly associated with degradation of soil quality or
"improper" use of land. The moratorium on the resale of land was reduced to fve years in cases where
land was purchased. For the small household, garden, orchard, and dacha plots (averaging 0.2-0.5
hectares) legal restrictions on the resale of land were removed with the "Law on the Right of Citizens
of the Russian Federation to Own and Sell Plots for Personal Subsidiary Agriculture and Dachas,
Gardens, and Private Housing" (December 23, 1992). The procedures for such land transactions were
laid out in a Council of Ministers Resolution "On Ratifying the Procedures for Buying and Selling of
Land Plots by Citizens of the Russian Federation', No. 503 (May 30, 1993).
25.    Property rights in land received a major boost with the Presidential Decree "On Regulating Land
Relations and Development of Agrarian Reforms in Russia" (October 27, 1993). This decree eliminated
remaining moratoria on the resale of land, underlined state support for the concept of private property
in land, and reiterated the right of land owners to lease and mortgage their land. The registration process
itself was greatly simplified by eliminating the requirement for a survey as part of initial registration.
26.     Farm restructuring and the creation of private farms. The legal basis for the establishment
and operation of private family farms was initially provided by the "Law on the Peasant (Private) Farm"
(November 22, 1990). This was further elaborated in the Land Code of April 1991. The pace to develop
private farms was accelerated in the winter of 1991/92 following the issuance of two official documents:
"On Urgent Measures for Implementing Land Reform in the RSFSR" (December 27, 1991) and "On
Procedures for Reorganizing Collective and State Farms" (December 29, 1991). These documents
established the basis under which workers on collective and state farms could exit those farms with their
share of land and property to begin private farming. Furthermore, a reserve fund of under-utilized or
unutilized lands of collective and state farms was established to allocate land to prospective private
farmers.
27.    These state and collective farms were authorized to reorganize into any one of the following five
categories: (a) as associations of peasant farms, under which land and other assets would be aistributed
among farm members and operated by individuals or groups of individuals as independent enterprises;
(b) as joint stock companies (either closed or open) or limited liability societies in which the members'
share of land and other assets are determined, but not physically identified and the farm continues to
operate as a collective; (c) as collective farms, where property is owned jointly, but shares are not
delineated; (d) as state farms, but with property rights passed from the state to the farm (essentially
converting state farms into collective farms with collective ownership of assets), or (e) as agricultural
cooperatives, though this form is not well defined in the guidelines and does not appear to differ
appreciably from (b) above. The guidelines also foresaw the option of bankruptcy for financially
nonviable farms, where the collective or state farm would be fully liquidated.
28.     Potential private farmers are able to obtain land in the following ways. First, emtch rayon
established a norm for free distribution of land from its reserve land fund in accordance with a
Presidential Decree of March 2, 1992. "On Procedures for Establishing the Size of Plots Allocated Free
of Charge to Citizens". Farm workers can exit from state and collective farms with land allotted from



7
these farms according to the rayon determined shares. Second, potential private farmers who are not
currently employed on large farming enterprises, obtain land from the reserve land fund. In cases where
a number of individual are members of the new private farm, each individual is entitled to a land share
detennined for that rayon, though in practice this is not always the case. Above these free allocations
of land, farmers are entitled to either purchase land from the state (from the reserve land fund) or to lease
land from the state or other owners. Purchases of land from the state is subject to a size constraint. Each
oblast has determined maximum farm sizes, depending on farm type or specialization. The combination
of free allocations of land and land purchases are not to exceed these oblast maximums.
29.     Progress thus far. By April 1, 1994, 277,000 private farms, averaging roughly 43 hectares
each, had been established and the number of these farms continues to increase. This represents more
than a five-fold increase over the number of private farms which existed on January 1, 1992. Two-thirds
of these farms have been created by the exiting of workers from state and collective farms with their
shire of land a id other assets. Private farms now account for about 5 percent of agricultural land in
Russia. The number of tractors per 100 private farmers has increased from 10 in 1990 to 68 at the
beginning of 1993. However, access to farm machinery and credit remains a serious problem for those
who would like to start a private farm. Another important aspect of the land reform is the entitlement
of 35 million users of the small land plots (household plots of state and collective farm workers, and
garden, orchard and dacha plots of city dwellers) averaging 0.2-0.5 hectares. These plots account for
about 4 percert of agricultural land and about 30 percent of agricultural production. Though most of
these plots have been in use for decades, both their number and their average size have been increasing
as part of the land reform. Virtually, all of these users have now become owners and require legal
documentation of their new status.
30.     Virtually all state r id collective farms have undergone the process of re-registering their
organizational status, and ownership of 80 percent of agricultural land has passed from the state to these
farms. Approximately, half of state and collective farms have chosen to reorganize themselves as joint
stock companies or limited liability societies. Available evidence, however, suggests that the re-
registered state and collective farms have not yet altered their management and operations significantly.
Between 35 and 40 percent retain their previous organizational structures. Only a small percentage of
state and collective farms have thus far opted for restructuring based on physical delineation of land
shares of each farm member, but as the process of restructuring large farming enterprises continues, this
share can be expected to increase. In addition to an appropriate legal framework, investment in rural
infrastructure (particularly roads), delinkdng the provision of social services in rural areas from the
commercial operations of these farms and the strengthening of rural social safety net are essential to
expedite farm restructuring. The process of farm restructuring received a boost with the issuance of a
Government Resolution entitled "On the Experience of Agrarian Transformation in Nizhny Novgorod
Oblast", highlighting the experience of the IFC Nizhny Novgorod Pilot Project (see Section G, below).
31.    Current processes for the first registration and subsequent dealings in land are the responsibility
of the rayon offices of the Russian Land Committee. The Russian Land Committee has a comprehensive
network of offices at the oblast and rayon levels which are responsible for recording the issuance of land
tit:. documents. These offices receive applications from individuals and enterprises to register land.
Following the October 1993 Land Decree, the procedure involves just two steps: initial application and
issuance of a certificate with or without an accompanying survey description. The need to eventually
provide some sort of survey description of land parcels is fully recognized. Maps and plans for existing
land use appear to cover the whole country, albeit at varying scales and with varying vintage and degrees
of accuracy.



8
32.     In practice, progress has been made in issuing documents in support of land rights. By March
1, 1993, 70 percent of large farming enterprises and other agriculturally related enterprises had received
temporary certificates, and another 15 percent had received certificates with full survey description (State
Acts). About 30 percent of private farms already had their States Acts and an additional 60 percent had
at least a temporary certificate. Of non-agricultural enterprises, 10 percent had their state acts and 50
percent had their temporary certificates. Progress in titling the small plots has been slow. Of nearly 35
million plot owners, only about 400,000 (or slightly more than one percent) have obtained their State Acts
and another 14 million (or 40 percent) have obtained only their temporary certificates.
33.     At present the basic legal framework for land reform is not yet finalized. Progress is being
made on a draft Civil Code which will address the question of property rights in land and other real
estate. The Civil Code is expected to be ready for consideration by the Parliament before the end of
1994. A Land Code is also in draft stage and is expected to be presented to the Parliament in June 1994.
The Land Code will address the land reform issues in more detail. Subsequent legislations are planned
in land mortgaging, payments for land, the cadastre, land markets, state and municipal lands, and land
surveying. The completion of these draft legislations, acceptable to all the agencies involved, may take
longer. In addition to delays in establishing a legal framework for land reform, the technical
infrastructure necessary for land mortgaging and the procecures for land valuation ure not yet fully
developed. A Presidential Decree, which is currently in draft stage, will outline the functioning of the
land registration system in Russia. Issuance of this Decree is a condition of effectiveness for the LARIS
project.
34.     In the absence of an appropriate land registration decree, the existing  system of recording
issuance of land documents is inadequate for supporting land transactions, recording mortgages and other
servitudes, and for land valuation and taxing purposes. As title documents are issued, they are recorded
in chronological order with identification of the owner(s), location of holding, and size of holding broken
out by form of land tenure. There is no systematic way to track mortgages and other easements.
Furthermore, the method of parcel identification (oblast name, rayon name, chronological order of title
issue) will be inadequate as the land reform progresses. The recording of title documents takes place in
an environment with no legal guidelines and without full orientation toward the needs and interests of end
users. Adjudication procedures are vague, and eventual survey procedures for the 35 million small plot
holders could prove very costly.
E. LAND REFORM RELATED IssuEs
Ddeteination of Exdsting Land Ownership Rights
35.      The recognition of private property rights creates a distinct problem for the authorities
responsible for the implementation of land registration policy. Issuance of titles to owners must begin
with a determination of existing property rights. This involves process of adjudition, demarcation and
registration of the property. The complexities to this task are apparent. It is not a straightforward
subdivision of state and collective farms, a simple allocation of virgin lands nor an adjudicated acceptance
of existing use rights. It is a combination of all three. It is therefore clear that a combination of survey
and recording methods will be required if the new titles are to be described and indexed satisfactorily.
The haphazard nature of requests for registration of farms or of other types of private land upon sale or
lease could lead to a piecemeal approach to the surveying and recording, which will inevitably be
expensive. Furthermore, any system to handle these problems must be flexible to accommodate any
future changes in land laws.



9
A Unified National Cadastre
36.     For the purposes of establishing an information basis for national land policy, it is extremely
important to put in place a system which is applicable nationwide and encompasses all types of land uses.
In particular, the cadastre should be capable of incorporating urban as well as rural lands. Any attempt
to set up a strictly rural cadastre would encounter problems of delineation and would entail unnecessary
complications when moving into or out of that cadastre. While the policy and management issues
associated with urban land are generally more complex than for rural land, the cadastre should be
structured in such a way as to be appropriate for more developed as well as for less developed lands.
Security of Tenure
37.    Clarity of title and security of tenure are fundamental to confidence in land rights and therefore
to the provision of a framework in which an open market in land can operate and allow resources to be
allocated to their most efficient use. Land and property law has been developing at a time of political
and economic turmoil, with the consequence that the existing land laws fell short of providing the
certainty and clarity in land rights that were needed to underpin the confidence of private investors and
property owners and allow open markets to flourish. Presidential Decree No. 1767 (which was signed
on October 27, 1993) is a major step toward facilitating private land transactions and removing
restrictions on sale of land. How,;ver, there are still many land regulations that need to be developed to
elaborate and operationalize this Land Decree.
Forms of Tenure
38.    Various forms of land tenure exist in Russia at present (See Annex 2). The fullest form of land
property rights is represented by the term "sobstvennost', which allows the holder of these rights to sell,
mortgage, lease, or grant the land. Next to this comes "pozhiznennoe vladenie", which allows land to
be passed to heirs, but not sold. Finally, their is either long- or short-term use (polzovanie) of land
which does not allow for sale or inheritance. The existence of these many forms of tenure complicates
record keeping and legal treatment of land issues. For example, many small household plots are held
in a variety of forms of tenure to accommodate local land ownership norms and limitations. This will
complicate future registration and transactions in land because the land plot must be physically delineated
to reflect the multiple forms of tenure. Land registration and administration would be greatly simplified
if forms of tenure less than sobstvennost' were converted to leasehold with the state or municipal
government being the lessor.
Adjudication and Demarcation
39.     Adjudication is an essential stage in land distribution. It is the process by which rights in land
are finally and authoritatively determined, according to the law, in nature, location and extent prior to
registration. It is a judicial process, and must therefore by governed by law. Adjudication usually takes
a level of the judicial process i.e., the interpretation of land rights into the field. Experience shows that
this works and the majority of disputes, when they occur, can be resolved there and then, on the ground,
in the presence of all concerned. In many countries, adjudication officers are often surveyors trained to
apply the appropriate legal principles. Once adjudicated upon, the extent of rights is demarcated on the
ground by marking the boundaries in the presence of all concerned.



10
40.     Surveying and recording the boundaries on maps is an essential subsidiary operation. The
accuracy of surveying and the decision as to whether to hold high precision coordinates or to rely on
measurements scaled from a map/plan will have little effect on the number of disputes, but will have a
dramatic effect on the time and cost of the surveying and recording processes.
Land and Other Real Estate Registration
41.    Under traditional Russian practice, land and structures were treated quite separately from a legal
point of view. With the tendency toward consolidation of different forms of tenure and the growing
importance of legally registering newly acquired private property rights, attention needs to be given to
coordinating, and if possible unifying, procedures for all kinds of real estate registration. The LARIS
project aims to establish a system which is consistent with such a goal.
42.     A parcel-based. juridical cadastre aims for specific goals which are relevant to Russia. It
provides clarity and certainty to land rights, and offers the basis for the state's guarantee to security of
tenure. It brings security of tenure to land users and therefore confidence to invest effort and money for
the duration of the rights. It reduces and helps to resolve disputes about title and between neighbors.
It facilitates transactions in land -- whether sales, mortgages or leases -- clearly and authoritatively,
helping land resources to pass easily to their most valuable use. It allows the state to monitor the land
market in terms of the volume of transactions and prices and observe trends which may be counter to the
public interest. It provides information for further publicly-funded farm amalgamation and boundary
adjustment schemes and other major capital works for the improvement of agriculture e.g., irrigation and
drainage.
43.     The design and technology of the register could allow for the later integration of other data sets.
For example, access to on-line data for soils and land capability are useful for advisors and farm
marnagers who are remote from the land they are managing. To smaller farmers who know their land
from working it day-to-day, a sophisticated database is of minimal interest.
Land Markets
44.     Creating an open market in land through lease or sale will help to realize two objectives. First,
land will tend to move from the less to the more efficient use under the rules of the free market. Second,
a market will enable land to be used as collateral for loans. A well-functioning land registry is a
necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for the long-term smooth functioning of land markets in Russia.
Other obstacles to attaining this objective include an unstable macroeconomic environment and continued
lack of full political consensus on the very idea of land markets.
45.     Predictions of how new landowners in Russia will react to an open market in land are difficult
and concerns that speculators would move in to buy land cheaply as a hedge against inflation are
understandable. There may be a belief that speculators, more interested in the potential for development
gains than in agriculture, may leave the land lying idle. There is no doubt that opening a market in a
confused economy does present risks but, on the other hand, most farmers may well be reluctant to sell
land in the absence of an alternative source of livelihood.
46.     A land register should enable the government to monitor the market for signs of activity which
are counter to the national interest and measures can be introduced to intervene if the government sees
fit. Stiff penalties for unauthorized changes in land use enforced through strict development control laws
and taxation can be used to discourage undesirable speculation.



11
Land Taxation
47.     Land taxation procedures remain poorly developed and inappropriate. Tax rate schedules,
which were established in 1991, were crude and have since been made irrelevant by the rate of inflation.
A recent Presidential decree (On Tax Payments for the Sale of Land Parcels and Other Operations in
La.id, No. 2118, Dec. 7, 1993) sets land transactions tax rates equal to those that apply to income. That
is, transaction taxes are set at levels well above those that prevail in most countries and al levels which
are surely going to inhibit either actual transactions in land or their legal reporting.
F. BANK'S LENIDiNG STRATEGY FoR AGRICULTURE
48.    The Bank, through its Food and Agricultural Sector work since November 1991, has played a
key role in building the foundation for the design of the structural reforms and in putting together a
complex package of macro-economic stabilization measures needed for supporting the reforms in the
agricultural sector. A broad based policy framework has been developed, which provided the basis for
a dialogue with the government. The most important contribution of the Bank has been in increasing the
exposure of key policy makers to market principles and working with them in the design of appropriate
reform packages during the transition phase to a market economy.
49.     The Russuin government has identified agriculture as one of the important sectors requiring
assistance from the World Bank. Such assistance is important to achieve short-term supply response,
improve the efficiency of resource use, support the adjustment process and demonstrate tangible benefits
from the reform program. The Bank's planned lending program for agriculture consists of six types of
lending operations, including:
o The agriculture components of Rehabilitation Loans to provide fluids for financing imports of
critical agricultural inputs. The First Rehabilitation Loan, which allocated US$150 million to
agriculture, has been almost completely disbursed. The Second Rehabilitation Loan, which is
expected to address critical structural and macroeconomic policy issues, has been negotiated.and
is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in 1994.
o  The proposed Agricultural Reform Implementation Support (ARUS) Project, which is expected
to be presented to the Executive Directors in 1994, would provide a loan of US$240 million in
support of the creation and strengthening of institutional capacity to implement ongoing and future
agricultural reform and finance selected critical investments.
*  The current Land Reforn Implementation Support  ARS Project will support the creation
and strengthening of public infrastructure and institutional capacity to implement ongoing and fiture
land reform, with a particular focus on land registration.
o Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), the processing of which has already been
initiated, would support a comprehensive national program of agricultural policy reforms and, in
this respect, it would complement the ARIS and LARIS projects. Further processing of this loan,
however, is contingent on the progress in policy reforms, particularly on agricultural credit and
subsidies, and an agreement on an agricultural policy reform program.
o  Regional Agricultural Development Project (RADP) is designed to focus on two selected regions
to finance critical investments and implementation of specific policy reforms, with a particular focus
on farm restructuring.



12
0 The Sector or Sub-Sector Investment Loans (SILs) are expected to focus on vital agricultural sub-
sectors. The first in a series of such operations is expected to focus on agricultural research,
extersion and education. Other possibilities include forestry, fertilizer, agro-industry and livestock
sub-sectors.
50.     The Bank's medium-tern objective is to assist the Government in the structural transformation
of the Russian economy into a market-oriented economy. Given the large size of the agro-industrial
complex in Russia's economy, the Bank's lending strategy for agriculture is central to achieving this
objective. The primary focus of the agricultural lending program is to restructure agriculture, accelerate
the sector's adjustment process through appropriate policy changes and support specific investment
projects to build productive capacity and improve sectoral efficiency. The Bank will also assist in the
development of human resources and institutional capacity in agriculture which is vitally needed for
efficient functioning of a market-based agricultural economy and implementation of agricultural reforms.
51.     In support of these goals, the Bank expects to provide substantial training and technical
assistance through direct lending and co-financing arrangements supplemented by the ongoing and planned
economic and sector work (ESW). In addition to the major Bank report entitled Food and Agricultural
Policy Reforms in the Former USSR: An Agenda for the Transition (Food Sector Study), financed by the
Bank's Technical Cooperation Program (TCP), the ESW includes strategic studies on land reform and
farm restructuring (Yellow Cover completed), agricultural research, extension and education (White
Cover completed) and possibly other sector studies such as forestry, fertilizers, food processing and
livestock.
G. IFC's INVOLVEMENT IN LAND REFORM
52.      The IFC, with financing from USAID, has undertaken a farm reorganization and land
privatization "pilot" project in Nizhny Novgorod. Five state and collective farms are participating. The
thrust of the project is to develop procedures and guidelines to restructure large farms into economically
viable units, including private family farms. The Nizhny Novgorod pilot project has been developed on
the basis of existing legislation and regulations at the Federal level and has entailed careful review of
relevant regional (oblast) policy and regulations. The IFC has worked closely with Russian specialists
in devising an approach which incorporates valuable local insight and expertise. The program has been
designed to produce a simple, generic restructuring scheme that can be replicated throughout Russia.
53.     The approach developed under the pilot project involves the following steps: (i) the issuance
of land and property entitlement certificates to individuals living on the farm; (ii) dissemination of
information to educate rural citizens on how to use their entitlement certificates; (iii) the trading, selling
and combining of entitlement certificates prior to auction to give individuals and groups the ability to
acquire purchasing power; (iv) the division of the farm into lots for auction using the existing operational
subdivisions of the farm; (v) the sale of property and land through auctions where groups and individuals
bid for sections of the farm using entitlement certificates; (vi) a possible post-auction trading of land and
property by winning bidders to help achieve the best possible business units; and (vii) the issuance of
property and land deeds to the new owners.
54.     The critical step in the process is the decision by farm members as to how to utilize their land
and property entitlements. The options faced by entitlement holders include selling or leasing their
entitlements to other farm members, passing their entitlement as a gift or inheritance, swapping land
entitlements for property entitlements and vice versa, and using their entitlements to bid for land and
property at auction. The IFC has designed a set of simple, standard legal contracts whereby individuals



13
could sell, lease, or gift their land or property entitlements or alternatively could invest them in limited
liability partnerships.
55.    The Nizhny Novgorod pilot project received government support with the issuance of a Council
of Ministers Resolution entitled "On the Experience of Agrarian Transformaiion in Nizhny Novgorod
Oblast" (April 15, 1994). The resolution seeks to expand the implementation of the Nizhny Novgorod
approach: by establishing a regional training center to train specialists capable of managing farm
restructuring; by allocating funds from the State budget to cover the second phase of farm restructuring
work in Nizhny Novgorod; and by preparing principles of farm transformation which outline key aspects
of the farm restructuring process. Furthermore, the resolution emphasizes the need for the Russian Land
Committee to issue land certificates to members of restructuring farms in a timely manner.
56.    The U.K. Know-How Fund is now undertaking a followup to this project in Nizhny Novgorod
to assist the reorganized farms with post-privatization support. In addition, this project is designed to
expand the implementation of farm restructuring, train Russians to carry on the farm restructuring process
and provide technical assistance in land registration, land surveying and mapping.
H. BANK'S STRATEGY TO PROMOTE LAND REFORM
Objectives
57.     The Bank's primary objective is to assist the Russian government with the establishment of a
sound infrastructure for land records management which consistent with private land ownership. The
underlying objectives and priorities are to (a) promote the development of a national land registration
system; (b) expedite the issuance of land certificates and the development of land markets; (c) develop
an appropriate judicial framework to adjudicate land disputes; (d) develop environment-friendly land use
management policy; (e) promote the development of land mortgaging; (f) promote the development of
cost recovery and revenue enhancement from land management; (g) promote workable models for
restructuring of state and collective farms; (h) develop appropriate systems for zoning and land use
control; and (i) promote the integration of land registration with other real property registration.
Bank Strategy
58.    The Bank's operational work is being designed to assist the Russian Government to achieve the
above land reform objectives. The key principles determining the Bank's strategy are (a) establishment
of a core national system of land registration with appropriate regional flexibility; (b) integration of the
land register with other property registers, (c) establishment of a unique national land cadastre; (d)
strengthening inter-agency and inter-government (federal, oblast and rayon) linkages to improve land
management; and (e) improving donor coordination to undertake training and technical assistance to
promote land reform.
59.     The land reform issues were originally addressed as part of the Bank's Food Sector Study.
Through this work, Bank was able to identify key Russian experts working on land reform and maintain
working relationships with them. This included staff from various agencies dealing with land, including
the Russian Land Committee, the Agrarian Institute and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Food Sector
Study was followed by another study which focussed on issues related to Land Reform and Farm
Restructuring in Russia. This work was carried out in collaboration with the Agrarian Institute. Through
a dialogue with the Government, the Bank has made important contributions to the progress recorded over
the last two years in Russian land policy reform.



14
60.     The proposed Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS) Project is expected to be the first
in a series of several Bank projects designed to promote land reform and farm restructuring in Russia.
The LARIS project will create and strengthen public infrastructure and institutions to undertake land
registration and associated land cadastre mapping. The initial emphasis is on agricultural land in rural
and sub-urban areas. A series of pilot projects would be initiated through technical assistance as part of
the LARIS. These pilot projects would form the basis for future Bank projects on land reform, land
development and farm restructuring. The concepts being developed as part of LARIS and other "pilots"
would also be expanded to other important geographical areas in Russia. The Bank would also continue
to cooidinate land reform related work with other international and bilateral donors who are providing
technical assistance in land related areas.
Follow-up to IFC Project
61.     As part of its land reforn strategy, the Bank will build upon the experience gained during the
IFC pilot project in Nizhny Novgorod and the followup post-privatization project supported by U.K.
Know-How Fund. The Bank is currently in the process of preparing a Regional Agricultural
Development Project (RADP). This project will support the process of farm restructuring and land
privatization. In its initial phase it will be carried out in two oblasts (Belgorod and Voronezh), with the
possibility of eventual expansions to other oblasts.
62.      Under the RADP project, a full assessraent will be made of farm restructuring strategies
including the experience gained by the IFC Nizhny Novgorod project, the experience from other farm
restructuring efforts within Russia, as well as the feedback from farm restructuring and land privatization
experts both in Russia and abroad. The objective is to further elaborate one or more models and carry
out implementation on a broader scale than heretofore achieved and build in greater sustainability to the
farm restructuring process by incorporating the privatization of input suppliers, agricultural service
enterprises, procurement organizations, and enterprises involved in food marketing.
63.     The LARIS Project will provide valuable support to the process of farm restructuring and land
reform. For the restructuring of existing large farming enterprises into more efficient units (including
the creation of family farms), mapping and survey skldls are required and a well-functioning juridical
cadastre is essential. LARIS will substantially strengthen existing cadastral mapping capability,
particularly the ability to quickly update maps, and will put in place a juridical cadastre to efficiently
register property rights of members of restructured fanning enterprises. The land registration system to
be implemented by LARIS will also facilitate the leasing and mortgaging of land.
64.     The LARIS Project is being closely coordinated with the Bank's Housing Project. The Housing
Project addresses the issues of land ownership, land markets, and land registration in an urban
environment (six selected cities). The design of a uniform land registration system, that can meet the
needs of urban as well as rural areas, is still subject to debate and discussion though common principles
have been defined with respect to property legislation. Other objectives have also been elaborated in
conjunction with the Housing Project, in particular the principle of a unified property registration system
for land and buildings and the need for an appropriate adjudication system.



15
I. RATIONALE FOR BANK PARTICIPATION
65.    Increasing productivity, restructuring and privatization of the agricultural sector and effective
registration of property rights are major goals of Russia's ongoing transition to a market economy. Since
1990, the Federal Government has introduced unprecedented land, price, trade and enterprise reforms
designed to accelerate this transition and has made considerable progress. Nevertheless much remains
to be done to reform the agricultural sector. There are also critical institutional constraints to the reform
process, including an inadequate land registration system. Furthermore, Russia lacks an appropriate
institutional capacity for project preparation. As a result, it is difficult to prepare projects based on sound
economic principles and effectively implement the ongoing and future agricultural reforms.
66.     The possibility exists for Russia to put in place an effective and self-sustaining system of land
registration. However, initial investment, training and technical assistance requirements are large. The
Bank, along with other bilateral donors, is in a position to support these critical and diverse needs.
Bank's involvement in the agricultural sector is also essential to continue the dialogue with the
Govermnent which was initiated through the Food Sector Study work. The Bank's involvement in this
project would: (a) help develop key institutions necessary to implement land reform; (b) enhance the start
that has been made in Russia to develop private sector farming; and (c) maintain the policy dialogue and
contribute to the prospects for continuing policy reform.
III
BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS
A. EXPERIENCE WTrH LAND PROJECTS
67.    The World Bank has limited experience in financing land cadastre and land titling projects. The
available experience is based on projects either as components of large rural or agricultural developments
projects, or as free-standing land projects. Since 1980, 17 PCRs or PPARs have been prepared for
projects with land as a component and two PCRs for free-standing land projects. These two land projects
are the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project for Brazil (Ln. No. 2593-13R) and the Land
Titling Project for Thailand (Ln. No. 2440-TH). A recent OED report entitled The World Bank's
Experience with Rural Land rTtling (No. 1992-35, March 1992) has also summarized Bank experience
and lessons for land cadastre and land titling projects.
68.      The Bank experience in land projects has been mixed.  In a majority of the projects,
performance was below targets for land title preparation and issuance. In some cases, cost overruns for
land titling were large. Available data from the rural and agricultural development projects in particular
indicate considerable cost overruns for land titling in most of the projects providing such data. Costs per
land parcel adjudicated in the land tenure project in Brazil were nearly twice the estimates during
appraisal. On the other hand, cost per parcel adjudicated in the land titling project in Thailand was
actually lower than estimated at appraisal. Cadastral mapping targets were generally met with less of a
tendency for cost overruns. However, delays in their implementation contributed to delays in land titling.
69.      The factors which contributed to poor performance of land projects can be traced to
inappropriate or ambitious design and over-optimistic assumptions about implementation. According to
OED, four broad reasons for poor performance of land titling projects are: (a) lack of political support;
(b) conflicting bureaucratic priorities and/or infighting; (c) lack of institutional capacity or unwillingness
to commit adequate resources; and (d) underestimation of complexity and/or costs, or other design



16
weaknesses. A large number of Bank projects containing land titling components involved redistribution
of existing land rights. In most cases this proved to be a formidable barrier to progress in project
implementation, particularly in economies where agrarian interests were strong.
70.     Inadequate implementation arrangements also contributed greatly to poor project perforr lance.
In the rural or agricultural development projects, the land component was usually a minor part L the
project, typically accounting for less than 25 percent of project expenditures and in some cases as low
as 5 percent. The land administration or cadastral survey agencies were never the primary project
imp!ementation agencies and were not well attuned to the overall project objectives. In Brazil,
institutional conflicts led to serious problems in implementation since the State Land Institute was
responsible for project management and the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform was
responsible for financial control.
71.     In a majority of the projects, the existing infrastructure to undertake land cadastre and land
titling activities was weak. Most countries lacked adequate surveying capabilities (both human skills and
physical facilities), and projects were typically unable to overcome these shortcomings in an effective and
timely manner. The land titling projects in Brazil and Thailand point to the need to carefully plan for
the introduction and assimilation of new mapping and survey technologies. This challenge was met very
successfully in the case of the Thailand project, where training and technical assistance aspects of the
project were incorporated and where the geographical scale of the project was appropriate for the number
of trained staff available. In the case of Brazil, the approach to modernize the cadastral database was not
adequately discussed with, or understood by, the client prior to project implementation. As a result, it
contributed to serious delays in project implementation.
72.     The lack of adequate staff incentives, bonuses, or career development opportunities is cited as
a serious weakness during project implementation.  For example, in the case of Thailand, the
implementing agency was unable to retain many of the specially trained staff who left for non-related
positions elsewhere in the government, or joined the private sector. In a number of countries,
management linkages between the land administration agencies at the level of the central government and
regional and district offices were too weak to adequately coordinate project implementation. In the
extreme cases of some of the rural development projects, necessary district offices for land registration
did not exist and were not established during the life of the project. The lack of staff training at the
regional and district levels also contributed to lack of successful implementation.
73.      The Brazil project suffered from a poorly functioning project coordination unit due to:
(a) repeated changes in the structure and staff, (b) insufficient authority to supervise project
implementation, (c) lack of counterpart funds to carry out field supervision, and (d) an inability to retain
staff with necessary skills. While implementation problems were less severe for the Thailand project,
the implementing agency lacked appropriate management structures to adequately oversee project activities
at the provincial level. Delays in procurement led to serious delays ihr land titling and registration
activities.
B. LESSONS FROM BANK EXPERIENCE
74.     Successful land cadastres and land titling projects must incorporate the following key elements
in their design and implementation. First, project perfonmance has been satisfactory where a single
agency has been responsible for project implementation and it has clear tid well-functioning management
links at the regional or provincial level. The implementation units must have adequate staffing, funding,
training, and legal authority to coordinate project activities. Second, projects should be designed on the
basis of existing human skills and institutional arrangements to successfully assimilate technological



17
advances. These capabilities need to be further enhanced through institutional development, including
training and technical assistance. Third, projects which focus on the registration of existing land rights
have proven much more successful than those addressing a reallocation of existing rights. More
crucially, a project must be consistent with the Government's own plans to address land use questions.
This was considered to be a critical factor in the success of the Thailand project. Finally, land cadastre
and land titling costs can greatly exceed appraisal estimates where due attention is not paid to procedures
for adjudication, survey, and dispute settlement. Maximum use of photogramnmetric means, as opposed
to field work for existing parcels, has also proven to be economically expedient. It is important that
relevant government policies in these areas be reviewed and addressed during project preparation.
75.     In addition, there is a need to incorporate other lessons in project design. First, due to the
specialized nature of equipment inherent in such projects, careful attention must be given to prepare bid
documents and procedures for bid evaluation. Second, projects should be designed to reflect realistically
possibilities for coordinating aerial photography, cadastral map production, adjudication, title preparation,
and title issuance. Third, the scale of the project should be commensurate with the ability of the
borrower to staff district and provincial offices with trained personnel, carry out registration activity, and
provide adequate resources. Finally, staff involved in project supervision and implementation must have
appropriate incentives, including salary bonuses and career advancement opportunities. Otherwise it
would be difficult to maintain continuity.
C. PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN
76.     The proposed LARIS project is the first Bank project which deals with land cadastre and land
registration in the former Soviet Union (FSU). Given serious legal, institutional, political and economic
problems faced by Russia, the proposed LARIS project may encounter serious problems. However, the
design of the LARIS project has incorporated the relevant lessons which are possible under the current
operating "environment" in Russia in order to improve its chances for satisfactory performance.
77.     The project relies on the existing Russian Land Committee network for implementation and
utilizes two organizations closely associated with the SLC; RosNITs "Zemlya" and VISKhAGI. Training
and technical assistance for project implementation is included in the project to strengthen SLC's
implementation capacity. The project also reflects existing strengths in Russia in the areas of land
surveying, computer skills and mapping infrastructure. Training and technical assistance will be provided
to further strengthen these skills. The LARIS project has evolved from plans originally developed by the
SLC and will be consistent with relevant legislation and regulations in the area of land administration.
The project will make maximum use of cost saving measures such as mass adjudication and
photogrammetry to satisfy survey needs.



18
IV
THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcT OBJECTIVES
78.     The primary objectives of the LARIS project are to accelerate the implementation of on-going
and future land reforms by introducitig a uniform land registration system consistent with the development
of markets in land and real estate and recognition of the right to private ownership of land and by
strengthening the Russian Land Committee's capacity to implement such a system and to issue titles to
property owners. The project would thus help lay the foundation for an efficient agricultural sector based
on private ownership of land and market principles determining land transactions and strengthen property
rights for non-agricultural land owners as well.
79.     The LARIS project will provide necessary support in four critical areas: (a) upgrade existing
cadastral mapping capability; (b) standardize land registration procedures and documentation to facilitate
title issuance and market transactions in land; (c) immediately bolster registration capability in rayons
likely to experience high levels of market activity; and (d) provide institutional support to develop the
skills necessary to administer a land registry and to assist in the further evolution of the Russian land
registration system.
80.     The success in achieving these objectives will be measured by: (a) the establishment of rayon
and oblast registration groups attached to existing Russian Land Committee offices; (b) the establishment
of digital mapping units at six locations in Russia; (c) completion of technical assistance and training
packages included in the project; (d) the issuance of land certificates in project rayons; and (e) production
of supporting cadastral maps; and (f) establishment of a core national system of land registration which
facilitates the conveyancing, leasing and mortgaging of land.
B. PROJECT CONCEPT
81.      The emergence of property rights in land has created a need for the establishment of a
comprehensive and effective land registration system which is cost-efficient and focuses on critical land
information which is easy to record, update, retrieve and disseminate. The land reform measures enacted
thus far have led to the creation of over 277,000 private family farms. In addition, nearly 50,000 large
farming enterprises (primarily re-registered state and collective farms) have become land owners as have
the 35 million users of household, garden, and orchard plots. Lastly, there are over 300,000 non-
agricultural enterprises newly invested with ovwnership rights in land. The number of land owners is
expected to increase as economic reform proceeds.
82.     The project would support activities which would (a) strengthen property rights in land; and (b)
provide the Russian Land Committee with expertise and institutional support in iegal, judicial, fiscal,
technical, and management aspects of land information and administration. The LARIS project will focus
on the juridical cadastre so as to provide clarity to property rights in land, support for the processes of
land buying, selling, leasing and mortgaging, and an improved information base in support of the
determination and collection of land taxes. Thejuridical cadastre developed under the LARIS project will
be the basis for a national system, incorporating urban as well as rural land, for use by all Government
agencies dealing with property registration or other legal issues associated with land.
83.     The existing land administration system is inadequate -- in terms of expertise, hardware and
software -- to deal with the fundamental changes now underway. It is essential that a proper system be



19
established to register new property rights in land and to facilitate economic transactions in land for both
rural and urban areas. The project involves public sector participation, supports institution building,
addresses a fundamental aspect of agricultural transformation, and deals with activities which strengthen
property rights in land.
C. PROJECr COMPONENTS
84.      The proposed LARIS project consists of three main components. These are: (i) upgrading of
land cadastre mapping; (ii) establishment of the land registration system; and (iii) institutional
development, including training and technical assistance. In addition, a Project Development Unit will
be established to implement the LARIS project and develop analytical capacity to prepare future projects
for financing by international financial institutions.
85.     The project supports the creation of critical public infrastructure to support the land registration
irocess. The core of the project is development of automated land registration units within existing land
committee offices in ten selected oblasts and in 100 rayons within those oblasts. These units will be
supported by new digital mapping at 1:10,000 scale for rural areas and 1:2,000 scale for settlements and
urban areas. The automated registration units will follow prescribed procedures for adjudication,
demarcation, survey, and settlement of disputes. The project will encourage the use of private firms and
individuals to assist existing state organizations in the carrying out of anticipated survey work and in the
design of software necessary for the land registration component of the project. The selected oblasts must
agree to conditions of participation in the project.
86.     LARIS will also address the more immediate need for land registration by improving capability
through provision of equipment and training to a maximum of 500 additional rayons. The Russian Land
Committee will select those rayons which are expected to have the highest level of transactions in land.
In contrast to the automated land registration units, the additional rayons will rely on existing map
production capability.
87.     The project will support essential institutional development in digital mapping, land registry
management, legal and juridical aspects of land registration, land and property valuation, land
mortgaging, developmental and land use control, land taxation and the economic management of state
lands, applications of a multi-purpose cadastre, and environmental monitoring. This will be provided
through training and technical assistance at the federal, oblast and rayon levels.
D. LAND CADASTRE MAPPING
88.     Because maps are an essential tool in the operation of a land registry, there is an urgent need
to upgrade existing mapping capability to support land registration in villages, towns, and cities, where
appropriate maps of the necessary scale are virtually non-existent, while accelerating the renewal of
existing 1:10,000 scale mapping in rural areas.
89.     There is a severe shortage of large scale maps (1:2,000) to support land registration in villages,
towns and cities. Mapping of rural areas (1:10,000 and smaller scale) needs to be revised much more
rapidly than is currently possible. The project will upgrade and systematize cadastral mapping capability
by providing digital mapping technology at six mapping enterprises and establishing a unified data format
for digital mapping. Digital mapping will be both quicker to produce and easier to revise and update than
traditional paper maps. This is particularly important in Russia, where land markets are developing after
decades of tight state control and the process of reorganizing existing large farms is already underway.



20
90.     The cadastre mapping wi!l provide full mapping coverage of the 100 rayons included in the
automated land registration system; reverse the long-term decline in cadastral mapping capability in
Russia; and introduce digital mapping technology on a modest scale as a first step to eventual national
coverage. To provide coverage for the 100 rayons included in the automated land registration system,
map production will commence in year one of the project, and the first maps will be available in year
two of project implementation. A total of 7,300 map sheets will be produced at 1: 10,000 scale for rural
areas, and 11,600 map sheets at 1:2,000 scale for settlements and towns, providing mapping coverage
for a total area of 200,000 square kilometers. Mapping of large cities will not be undertaken as part of
the LARIS Project.
91.     Aerial photography will be required at scales of 1:38,000 and 1:8,000 and will be taken by a
camera interfaced with a GPS assisted flight guidance and exposure positioning system. Planes for this
purpose will be leased from the Ministry of Civilian Aviation (MCA) in accordance with long-standing
procedures and arrangements between MCA and the mapping enterprises included in the project.
Agreement on the schedule of aerial photography to adequately cover project rayons in a timely manner
was reached during negotiations.
92.     The techniques to be used in producing digital mapping for the automated land registration
system include (a) digital photogrammetry to produce digital maps and orthophotoplans from aerial
photography; (b) vector digitization of existing maps and plans; (c) raster d.gitization of existing maps
and plans; and (d) ground survey using automated survey equipment. The digital photogrammetric
flowline begirs with aerial film negatives. These are converted into digital format by means of a scanner
and scanning software. Appropriate phototriangulation software will permit the selection, transfer and
measurement of ground control information.
93.    The scanned images, or existing digital images, combined with the control information are then
fed to a digital photogrammetric workstation. Photo interpretation and ground survey/field completion
will be undertaken as necessary to identify topographic features or boundaries which may be obscured
in the aerial photographs (e.g., vegetative cover). These data would be captured digitally and be
superimposed on the digital photogrammetric data.
94.     Because of the lead time involved in obtaining new mapping output from the digital flowlines
to be installed, it will be expeditious to produce digital mapping from existing maps, where those maps
are sufficiently recent, to speed up the process of registration where the automated system is being used.
This digital mapping will be provided by vector or raster digitization. These activities will be compatible
with the photogrammetric mapping, which the project will undertake, and would provide a basis for map
revision through the process of superimposition. For map digitization to proceed efficiently, unified data
formats must be created to ensure the compatibility of maps being produced.
95.     Six mapping enterprises, subordinate to the Russian Land Committee, will be equipped, five
existing locations (Moscow, St. Petersburg, Perm, Omsk, and Novocherkassk) plus a new enterprise in
Nizhny Novgorod. They will be provided with aerial cameras and on-board navigational equipment,
photo processing equipment, photogrammetric equipment, field survey equipment, field vehicles, and map
production and office equipment. Distinct digital mapping departments will be created within these
enterprises as part of the project. Management and other staffing of these departments is anticipated to
come both from within and from outside the existing mapping enterprises, drawing from former
employees of defense industries. Government approval for the relocation of the Moscow mapping
enterprise to adequate premises must be given a high priority. Actual relocation of this enterprise, as
well as preparation of premises for first phase mapping enterprises, is necessary prior to signing the
contract for procurement of mapping equipment.



21
96.    Output in digital format will be channelled directly to the automated registration groups at the
oblast level and from there to the rayon level. Output will also be produced in paper copy and in limited
cases on photographic film. Technical assistance and training associated with the introduction and
operation of new mapping technology is described as part of the Institutional Development Component.
E. LAND REGSTrRATIoN SYSrEM
97.    This component will support the development of a juridical cadastre and establish an automated
system of land registration. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the hiformation categories
to be included in the land registration system. The system will include the following types of
information: unique parcel identification number, name of owner, date of purchase, location and size of
the land holding, mortgages and other servitudes on the property, and any restrictions on land use
(including environmental concerns). This textual data will be linked with a graphic component in digital
form, illustrating location, boundaries, and relevant servitudes.
98.     The project will establish and fully equip land registration units at the rayon and oblast levels
as part of existing offices of the Russian Land Committee on the basis of current work recording issuance
of title documents. Basic land registration work will be carried out at the rayon level, including
applications, adjudication, survey and recording. The project will allow for the quick generation of
standardized land registry documents. Oblast level registry functions will include monitoring of the
register, aggregation of relevant data, and database back-up.
99.     Land registration activity under the LARIS Project will be carried out in accordance with the
October 27, 1993 Land Decree and subsequent administrative and regulatory elaboration of that Decree.
Procedures for registration of land and real estate must be established and issued as a condition of loan
effectiveness. In light of the tremendous workload in the area of land registration and the imperative of
cost-effectiveness, the project will rely on photogrammetric techniques for the survey of existing parcels,
with a minimum of follow-up field work. Creation of new parcels will usually require field survey.
Principles and procedures to be followed in adjudication, demarcation and survey of land parcels were
agreed during negotiations. Adjudication and demarcation will take place on a systematic basis prior to
flying aerial photography and will be administered by authorized representatives of the Russian Land
Committee. The Russian Land Committee will issue an ordinance operationalizing this approach for use
in project rayons. Land registration activity under the Project will be carried out through two channels;
an automated registradon system and a supplemental registration program.
Automated Registration System
100.   Registration units will be established at the regional level in 10 oblasts, and in 100 rayons within
those oblasts, at existing offices of the Land Committee. These units will be staffed by existing Land
Committee personnel in these offices currently involved in issuance of certificates as well as new
supplemental staff, as teeded. Registration units included in the automated system will be provided with
new digital mapping from the mapping component.
101.   Basic registration and related activity will be carried out at the rayon level. This includes the
issuance of initial certificates, land conveyancing (land buying and selling), leasing, and mortgaging, as
well as responding to information requests. These units will be equipped with printers, graph plotters,
computers with a LAN, necessary software, a field vehicle, tacheometer, and office equipment and will
be linked to the corresponding oblast offices. The oblast will directly receive and process the digital
mapping information, will provide aggregation of relevant data, database back-up, and will also respond
to information requests. Oblast units will include the same equipment as the rayon units, but will also



22
include graphic work stations and associated computers, and graphic equipment (scanner, digitizer, and
plotter). A small unit will be established at the federal level to serve as the center for the emerging
national land registration system.
102.    The system will enable the staff of a rayon land committee office to speed up the processing
of land titling applications and ensure that all details required from an applicant or from other officials
are obtained and validated before documents are issued. The system should automatically aggregate
statistics necessary for local and oblast level management. It will also ensure consistency of production
of the star.Jard letters and forms as well as certificates. It will alert staff to outstanding actions and
enable local management to perform other administrative functions more effectively. The placing of
printers at the district level will also enable rapid production of the maps.
103.   A paper copy of the certificate will be issued to the land owner and all the information contained
on the certificate will be stored within the data base at the rayon level. Back-up copies of the data base
will be stored at the oblast level. R=ad/write protect measures will be included to control access to
registry information and to insure that changes in the data base can be entered only by authorized
personnel at the rayon level. To be valid, any relevant changes in the data base will also be entered on
the owners paper copy. In cases where foreclosure or forfeiture proceedings have been initiated, a
requisite entry will be made in the data base.
104.    Approximately 3 million land users in the 100 rayons included in the automated registration
system are expected to obtain certificates to their land under this project. Technical assistance and
training associated with legal aspects of registration and land registry management are described as part
of the Institutional Development Component.
upplemental Registration Program
105.    The Automated Registration System, which lays the basis for establishing long-term public
infrastructure, will be supplemented by a systemn to address short-term needs in the area of land
registration. This sub-component will provide basic automation equipment, software, and training to
those rayons currently facing, or anticipated to face, the heaviest work load in land registration, and the
largest volume of land transactions and land mortgages.
106.   Up to a maximum of 500 rayons, located primarily in sub-urban areas, will be included in this
sub-component of the project. The total number of rayons to be included in the supplemental registration
program would be deternined based on the field experience of the first phase of 100 rayons. The
agreement on the 100 first phase rayons was reached during negotiations. The major difference between
these rayons and those in the automated system is that mapping and survey requirements will be satisfied
based solely on existing resources. In cases where sufficiently recent paper maps of appropriate scale
exist, scanners will be provided to convert this information to computer usable form. Approximately two
million certificates are expected to be issued in the first phase of 100 supplemental rayons. Depending
on the eventual expansion of the supplemental registration program, a total of 8-9 million certificates may
be issued as part of this sub-component.
107.   Other than mapping and survey support, the system of land registration will be the same as that
developed for the automated registration system. Provision of equipment will speed up the process of
preparation and issuance of land certificates. The rayon-level data base will facilitate the conduct of other
activities associated with the land registry. Training needs here are substantial and are addressed under
the Institutional Development component.



23
F. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
108.     The Russian Land Committee was established in 1990.  During its brief history, its
responsibilities and mandate have continued to evolve. At present, the Committee is faced with a broad
range of extremely demanding tasks. For some of these, there is little prior experience or institutional
capability. The project will provide a core of training and technical assistance in the areas of mapping
and land registration, as well as adjudication of land disputes, land valuation, land mortgaging, land
taxation and economic management of state lands, cost recovery mechanisms, developmental control, and
environmental monitoring.
Tn
109.    Training under the Land Registration component will be conducted in two ways; foreign and
in-country. The goal of training is not only to equip officials and staff at the federal level with skills
needed for project implementation, but to reach down to the oblast and rayon levels in a substantial way,
where appropriate training has thus far been minimal. (For more details, see Annex 3).
110.    Foreign Training. Foreign training will be designed to provide: (a) exposure to a variety of
land registration and cadastral models to senior management people; (b) training and exposure to staff
who will be responsible for implementation of land registration at the oblast and rayon levels; and (c)
training in the operation of digital mapping technology in foreign organizations utilizing such technology.
111.   Orientation training for groups of Russian experts from the Russian Land Committee, the Land
Reform Center and VISKhAGI will take place primarily during the first six months of the loan's
effectiveness. Visits to at least five countries offering diversity of land regulation models are anticipated.
The topics to be covered include: management of land registries, procedures for adjudication and dispute
settlement, mapping technologies and the interaction between mapping agencies and the land registry, data
base management, public access to information and methods of infoimation dispersal, the legislative basis
underpinning the activity of the land registry, and procedures followed in land conveyancing, land
mortgaging, and valuation of land and other real property.
112.   Operational training, geared to staff of the central and regional project units and representatives
of the oblast and rayon registration units, will be conducted in a country selected from among those
included in the initial orientation training program. This training will be geared to staff both in the
automated registration system and from the rayons included in the supplemental registration program.
The topics to be covered will be similar to those included in the orientation training program. This
training will be provided to about 250 staff members. Separate training will be provided to those
individuals responsible for initiating and operating the digital mapping technology included in the project
and will be designed to supplement training provided by equipment suppliers. This training will take
place at organizations utilizing such equipment in practice and will include about 40 participants. A
special package of foreign training will be provided to staff of the PDU to develop and enhance project
management and implementation skills.
113.   In-Countr Training. In country training on land registry management and digital mapping
technology will be carried out in Moscow and in the regions covered by the project. The six mapping
enterprises and ten oblast project groups to be established under the land registration sub-component will
serve as regional training centers. Such training wil; be organized by those who conducted the foreign
training and those who participated in the foreign training from the Russian side. Experts included in
the technical assistance portion of the project will also play a role in the design and execution of the land
registry management and digital mapping technology training. Other in-country training will be provided



24
in conjunction with other areas of technical assistance in the form of seminars both in Moscow and at the
regional level. At the oblast and rayon level, staff working in the area of land registration need much
greater exposure to the functioning of land registries in market economies. A total of about 1200 experts
will be trained as part of the in-country training program. A special package of training will be provided
under the auspices of the PDU in skills necessary for project implementation. As part of project
implementation, training is expected to be provided to about 270 experts.
Technical Assistance
114.   The project will provide technical assistance to the Russian Land Committee and its associated
institutes in land registry management, legal and judicial aspects of land registration, digital mapping
technology, land and real estate valuation, land mortgaging, developmental and land use control,
environmental monitoring of land resources, applications of a multi-purpose cadastre, land taxation, and
economic management of state lands. Technical assistance will build upon lessons learned during project
preparation as well as rayon-level pilot projects in implementation and other experience gained from
interaction with foreign experts.
115.    The past experience on technical assistance to the Russian Land Committee indicates that a
reliance on building partner relationships with foreign organizations, involved in the practical application
of tools and concepts associated with land administration and management, would be ideal. Good results
have been achieved where such organizations have established flexible and responsive relations with the
Russian Land Comnmittee and are in a position to commit specific individuals for long-term interaction
with the Russians. Technical assistance for LARIS has been designed with this experience in mind (for
more detail, see Annex 4).
116.    Exposure of local staff to foreign expertise is essential for continued improvement of the
emerging system of land legislation and to clarify alternative approaches to adjudication, dispute
settlement and other judicial processes. Traditional approaches to land valuation, in the context of
administrative planning, emphasized technical characteristics of land, with little attention to locational
considerations and a complete absence of market signals. In this context, the traditional system of state
administration of land needs to be revamped with respect to control of land use and development, and
new, more effective approaches need to be put in place for environmental monitoring. Given its very
early phase of development in Russia, land registry management, particularly methods for cost recovery,
requires a great deal of further foreign input. Of particular importance for Russia is the need to develop
appropriate economic management of state lands.
117.   Technical Assistance for the LARIS Project will be based primarily on the concept of building
ongoing working relations with appropriate foreign and Russian partner organizations. Rather than
placing individuals for long, uninterrupted periods in Russia, this approach would make individuals
available as they are needed to interact with the Russian Land Conunittee in devising problem-solving
strategies and providing necessary expertise in selected areas. Those organizations will be expected to
provide one to two experts to work with the Russian Land Committee. During the life of the project,
those experts will be expected to travel to Russia periodically for average stays of one to two months.
While in Russia, they will work directly with counterparts in the Russian Land Committee, provide
expertise as requested, assist in project implementation as appropriate, participate in arranging and
conducting training seminars as described in the training module, and work with the Russian Land
Committee to draft terms of reference for potential "pilot" projects in Russia.
118.    While not in Russia, those experts and their organizations should be prepared to maintain
communication with the Russian Land Committee and provide advice as necessary. Furthermore, a



25
limited amount of reverse travel from the Russian Land Committee to the "partner" organization is
anticipated. The purpose of this reverse travel would not be training, as such, but wvould be carried out
to address ongoing program concerns. The length of such reverse travel would generally be one week
for one to three individuals. Implementation of technical assistance during the first year of the project
will focus on those areas with direct impact on the proiect; land registry management, legal aspects of
land registration, and digital mapping technology. During the second year of the project, this technical
assistance will continue and be supplemented by assistance, at a lower level of intensity, in the other six
areas. A total of 74 person-months of technical assistance is anticipated during the life of the project.
119.    As part of the technical assistance module, foreign experts will work with the Russian Land
Committee to develop plans for potential future projects which will further elaborate particular aspects
of land registration and land administration. Among potential topics are land and real estate assessment,
judicial procedures associated with land registration, zoning and land use planning, land mortgaging,
economic management of state lands, systems of property insurance, and environmental monitoring of
land resources.
G. GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE
120.    The ten oblasts included in the automated registration system and their associated economic
regions are the following: (1) Moscow, (2) Tula and (3) Orel (Central region); (4) Rostov (North
Caucusus region); (5) Voronezh (Central Black Soil region); (6) Leningrad (Northwest region); (7)
Nizhny Novgorod (Volga Vjatsk region); (8) Samara (Volga region); (9) Pern; (Urals region); and (10)
Omsk (Siberia region). Most of these oblasts have already signified their consent in general terms to
participate in the LARIS project through a letter to the Russian Land Committee. These oblasts were
selected on the basis of existing institutional strengths to carry out the project. Most of the ten oblasts
have superior field surveying and computer systems capabilities. Digital mapping enterprises will be
located in six oblasts; Moscow, Leningrad, Nizhny Novgorod, Rostov, Perm, and Omsk. The regional
dispersion of these project oblasts will provide a sound basis for the eventual nationwide expansion of
the system.
121.   The 100 rayons selected from these ten oblasts represent primarily rural and sub-urban areas,
including some moderate-size towns and small cities. However, the project has been designed to allow
for eventual expansion to large cities. In addition, the project would also include up to a maximum of
500 rayons as part of the supplemental registration program. A total of 100 rayons were selected during
negotiations for implementation during the first phase. Based on the implementation experience with
these rayons, up to an additional 400 rayons will be selected during implementation. The project area
is shown in Map IBRD 25148.
V
COST EsTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTs
A. Cosr ESTMATES
Total Project Cost
122.   The estimated total project cost, including contingencies and import duties, is US$115 million,
of which 70 percent is foreign cost. The total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is about US$104
million, of which 77 percent is foreign cost. Payable VAT is not included in the project cost since it is
refundable within about one year. Duties on the imported equipment and machinery are included as part



26
of the local project cost. The share of local costs in total project costs is low primarily due to the present
undervalued exchange rate and hence low implied real resource cost of local contributions. The estimated
cost of individual project components and cost categories is reported in Table 5.1.
Table S.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million equivalert)
1. __________  Project Costs          |  Foreign     Component
__                  _ I as Percent   as Percent
Components                    Loca        Foreign       Total       of Total    of Total
Land Cadastral Mapping
Civil Works                    1.20        -            1.20         -           1.04
Equipment and Machinery       --          31.85        31.85       100.00       23.21
Import Duty                   4.78         -            4.78        --           3.48
Operating Cost                9.33                      9.33         _           9.32
Training                                               _--                        _ -
Technical Assistance          -            -            --           -            -
Sub-Total                   15.31        31.85        47.16       67.54        36.01
Land Registation Program
Civil Works                         --           -            -            -
Equipment and Machinery       --          26.69        26.69       100.00       27.70
import Duty                   4.00         -            4.00         -           4.15
Operating Cost                10.72        _           10.72         _           8.11
Training                      _-                              -                   -
Technical Assistance         _-            -            -            - 
Sub-Total                   14.72        26.69        41.41        64.50       41.01
Institutional Development
Civil Works                   --           -            -            -            -
Equipment and Machinery                    _                         _            _      |
Import Duty                   _            _            _            _
Operating Cost                --                        -            -            -
Training                                   2.52        2.52        100.00        2.19
Technical Assistance                       1.99        1.99        100.00        1.73
Sub-Total              |                  4.51        4.51        100.00       3.92
Project Development Unit
Civil Works                          -            -            -                  -
Equipment and Machinery        --          0.10        0.10        100.00        0.08
Import Duty                  0.01          -           0.01          -           0.01
Operating Cost               0.36          -           0.36          -           0.31
Training                       _           0.51        0.51        100.00        0.44
Technical Assistance           -           3.45        3.45        100.00        3.00
Sub-Total                   0.37          4.06       4.43         91.60        3.85
Total Base Cost               30.40        67.11        97.51        68.80        84.79
Physical Contingencies       1.00         5.86        6.86         85.46        5.97
Price Contingencies          3.60         7.03        10.63        66.10        9.24
[ Total Project Cost        [350             80.00   |  115.00 |   69.57    |  100.00
a       Of local project costs, US$10.6 million are import duties. In addit;on, payable VAT (approximately
US$16 million) is not included in the project cost since it is refundable within about one year.



27
Basis of Project Cost Estimates
123.    The base cost estimates were derived from mission analysis (in consultation with local
counterparts), surveys and preparation reports. Price contingencies of 2.8 percent per annum
(compounded) were applied to all costs expressed in US dollars according to the average annual price
increase projected by the World Bank between 1992 and 2002. The physical contingencies are assumed
to be ten percent of the base costs for civil works and equipment in line with established Bank practice
and experience with similar projects worldwide. The detailed costs and approach for deriving project cost
estimates for individual project and cost components are provided in Annex 5.
B. FINANCING PLAN
Financing Sources
124.   The proposed Bank Loan of US$80 million would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs
of the project. The Bank Loan to the Russian Federation would have a maturity of 17 years, including
5 years grace, at the '3ank's prevailing standard variable interest rate. The Federal Government, through
the Russian Land Committee, would finance all local costs including payments of imnport duties and taxes,
such as VAT. The proposed financing plan has been presented in Table 5.2. It was agreed during
negotiations, at the request of the Russian Delegation, to include a provision for retroactive financing in
an amount up to US$ 0.5 million to cover expenditures under eligible categories beginning on June 1,
1994. The eligibility of such expenditures for reimbursement will be subject to the same conditions as
for other project expenditures, including procurement.
TABLE 5.2: Proposed Financing Plan by Institutions
(US$ millions equivalent)
Fancing Source        li               Fordgn     |       Total     |  Percent of Total  |
IBRD                    _                80.0              80.0              69.6
Federal Government     35.0                   _            35.0              30.4
Total                  35.0              80.0              115.0             100.0     |
Percent of Total   |   30.4              69.6      I       100.0     J  =
Counterpart Funds
125.   Sustainability of the project depends, to a large extent, on the availability of budgetary resources
to finance local costs. The counterpart funds would be provided by the Federal Government through the
Russian Land Committee (SLC). The SLC is supported by the federal budget all the way to the rayon
level. Expenditures at the oblast ard rayon levels would, thus, be supported by the SLC. The Bank
obtained written assurances from the Government that the SLC was given approval by the Ministry of
Finance and other concerned ministries on satisfactory arrangements for securing budgetary allocations
for programs to be implemented during the first year of project implementation and a commitment for
budgetary support in subsequent years. The World Bank also obtained assurances during negotiations
that all special budgetary allocations would be restricted for the sole use of the LARIS Project; they
would be carried forward to a subsequent year, when not completely used within the year of allocation.
Furthermore, the Project Account to receive counterpart funds will be opened (with an initial deposit of



28
US$ 0.5 million equivalent) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank prior
to loan effectiveness.
Cofinancing
126.   Training and technical assistance components (excluding contingencies) are about 8.0 percent
of the total project cost. If the Government of the Russian Federation is successful in obtaining other
bilateral grant funds for this purpose, then the use of Bank funds would be either reduced correspondingly
or reallocated to other sub-components following appropriate discussions and approval by the World
Bank.
C. SPEcIAL AccouNT
127.    The Special Account (SA) would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the
Government and acceptable to the World Bank. This bank would be selected, from a number of
acceptable banks, on the basis of competitive bids. Selection criteria for participation in the bids are: (i)
the bank should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts, as audited by an
internationally recognized accounting firm; (ii) the bank should have a significant foreign correspondence
network covering all major currencies; (iii) the bank should have a reasonable capacity and experience
for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions, with
appropriate arrangements for the training and development of their staff; (iv) the bank should be capable
of performing a wide range of local banking services, including cash payments, transfers to other
domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies, and
maintenance of adequate accounts for the SA; (v) the bank should preferably be a member of Swift
(Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications) and should routinely use or plan to use
this facility to expedite payment transfers; (vi) the bank should be willing to issue a Comfort Letter to
assure that amounts deposited in a Special Account will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to
satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the borrower; (vii) the bank should be willing to maintain
adequate accounts as required by the World Bank, provide monthly bank statements to the World Bank
and the PDU, and any other information considered necessary (copies of all transactions would be
routinely submitted to the PDU); and (viii) the bank should be willing to charge reasonable rates for their
services and provide reasonable interest on balances held from time to time. Agreement on the selection
procedures for a commercial bank to manage the Special Account was reached during negotiations.
128.   The maximum authorized allocation of the SA will be US$0.5 million. The overall authorized
allocation will, however, depend on the short-run need of the project. The account will be opened in the
name of the Borrower (the Russian Land Committee will provide specific names of personnel authorized
to withdraw funds from the Special Account) and would be administered by the PDU which will send
requests to the World Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. These requests would be
accompanied by detailed monthly bank statements of the Special Account.
D. FLOW OF FUNDS
129.    The loan proceeds would be channelled to the Russian Land Committee as a special line item
through the budgetary process. Since loan proceeds would finance only the equipment and machinery,
training and technical assistance, but not civil works or operating costs, the flow of funds to oblast and
rayon offices of the Russian Land Committee is simplified. The Bank's share of project expenditures
would be financed as follows. First, the World Bank would deposit an advance disbursement in the
Special Account, to be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the Goverrnent and considered
acceptable to the World Bank. Second, on the basis of authorized documents, payments either direct or



29
by letters of credit (LOCs), would be made to suppliers of goods and services in accordance with the
Bank disbursement procedures. Third, small expenditures under SOE procedures would be reimbursed
from the Special Account. Finally, expenditures reimbursed through the Special Account would be
summarized into Withdrawal Requests which would be submitted to the World Bank for periodic
replenishment of the Special Account.
E. COST RECOVERY
130.   The project will introduce the concept of "fee for service" for activities carried out by the land
registration groups. These activities include, but are not limited to, issuance of land titles, land
transactions and infornation requests associated with mortgaging and leasing. The immediate goal of the
fees will not be full cost recovery, but rather establishment of the "fee for service" principle. Fees will
be set at a level so as not to discourage land transactions and no fees will be charged for initial
registration. The goal is to be able to cover 100 percent of incremental operating costs of the registration
groups by the end of the project out of these service fees.
131.   The project will support the Government's plan to establish a "fund" to support the costs of the
land registratikn groups. In addition to the fees generated directly from registration activities, the fund
will be supplied by revenues generated as a result of any breach of land use regulations (Decree No.
2162, December 16, 1993), and from the leasing and sale of state-owned lands. Agreement was reached
with the government during negotiations on the following three cost recovery principles: (a) the
establishment of service fee schedule for various activities in 1995; (b) introduction of "fee for service"
and other appropriate cost recovery measures in 1996; and (c) the establishment, operation and use of
a "fund" in 1996 from resources collected through fees or other cost recovery measures. The details
would be worked out during project implementation. Progress and plans for cost recovery would be part
of mid-term review of the project. The Bank will work with the Government to design a cost recovery
strategy in order to generate adequate resources to sustain the project work.
F. PROCUREMENT
132.    The procurement of all items funded from loan proceeds would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Local goods would
be eligible for a preference as provided in the procurement guidelines. The Bank's standard bidding
documents for the Procurement of Goods would be used. Consultants for training and technical assistance
would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Use of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)". Details of the procurement
arrangements and procurement agencies are provided in Annex 6. The methods of procurement,
proposed for the LARIS project, are summarized in Table 5.3. The PDU is expected to use the services
of a procurement agent to provide the international procurement services. The agent would prepare the
bidding documentation using the Bank's standard bidding documents. The PDU would have the
responsibility for the detailed technical specifications of the agreed items to be procured, for which the
PDU would use the assistance of consultants under the project.
133.    Equipment and Machinery. Equipment for land registration and cadastral mapping would be
combined in annual procurement packages, as illustrated in Annex 6. US$69.8 million of equipment
would be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and include computers,
printers, survey equipment, and vehicles. Where the value would be less than US$300,000, International
Shopping would be permissible under which at least three quotations would be obtained from three
eligible countries. Some equipment will be small in value but would, nevertheless, be procured on ICB



30
because they will be included in the combined procurement list. The project includes US$ 2.96 million
for vehicles purchase under ICB.
TABLE 5.3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions eqivalent)
Procurement Method '
I  Cost Component      j._ __ _ _  .   ._ _ __ _ ._ _ _ _ _ ._ __ _                      I
Cost Component           ICB         LCB        OTHERS          NBF         TOTAL
1. Works
Rehabilitation                                                  1.4           1.4
2. Goods
Equipment and           69.8                      1.0                        70.8
Machinery               (69.8)                    (1.0)                     (70.8)
3. Consulting Services
Training                                          3.3                         3.3
(3.3)                      (3.3)
Technical Assistance                              5.9                         5.9
________________________   __________     (5 .9)    __ _ _ _ _ _     (5 .9)
4. Miscellaneous
Operating Costs                                                23.0          23.0
Import Duties                                                   10.6         10.6
Total Project Cost         69.8                      10.2         35.0          115.0
(Bank Fnacin)             (69.8)                   (10.2)                      (80.0)
a      ICB: International Competitive Bidding
LCB: Local Competitive Bidding
Others: Refer to International Shopping (IS) US$1.0 million, and training programs US$3.3
million, consultants US$5.9 million according to Bank Guidelines.
NBF: Non-Bank Financed
b      Figures in parentheses refer to Bank financing
134.    Training. Training for US$3.3 million would be arranged with selected foreign institutions on
a cost reimbursable basis. After initial visits to selected countries that represented a variety of land
registration practices, the Russian Land Committee would negotiate arrangements with those institutions
which, in the opinion of the Committee, appeared to offer the most appropriate training through foreign
and in-country seminars. The terms of reference and the training arrangements would be satisfactory to
the Bank.
135.    Technical Assistance. Technical assistance for US$5.9 million would be provided primarily
by organizations as described in Annex 4. Assistance for project implementation will be provided to the
PDU by placing foreign specialists on its staff for the first two years of the project. Additionally,
seventy-four staff-months of consultants are programmed for, of which 51 months would represent longer-
term assignments which would be obtained on the basis of competitive proposals. There would also be
six short-term assignments averaging four months which might be obtained from firms or recruited
individually as proved most suitable to requirements, based on competitive proposals. Funds are also



31
provided for future consulting assistance for project preparation. Selection of all consultants would be
made according to the Bank's Consultant Guidelines and the terms of reference, and contractual
arrangements would be satisfactory to the Bank.
136.   Prior Review. The documentation for the annual procurement exercises would be reviewed by
the Bank and would follow the format of the Banlk's applicable standard bidding documents. There could
be as many as seventy-five contract awards. Contracts above US$0.3 million equivalent would be subject
to Bank approval; it is estimated that this would cover 80 percent of the total procurement value and
might amount to 25 contracts. The other contracts would be subject to selected post review during the
supervision of the project.
137.   The procurement of goods would be done by a procurement agent selected in accordance with
the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. The selection would assess capacity and experience in combination
with fee levels. A shortlist of qualified procurement agents would be prepared which will include both
foreign and local firms. The selection of procurement agents and the procurement procedures are
discussed further in Annex 6. The procurement will be supervised and assisted by a procurement
specialist included in the PDU, who would be on the PDU staff to assist in procurement for the first two
years of the project. The fees of the procurement agents are included in the cost of goods and are
estimated at approximately US$1 million equivalent and would be eligible for disbursement from the loan.
G. DISBURSEMENT
138.   The project is expected to be completed within a five-year period, with the closing date being
December 31, 1999. This disbursement profile is based on Bank experience in financing similar projects
in other countries. The World Bank funds would be disbursed either directiy or through the Special
Account on the basis of "Withdrawal Requests" signed by authorized signatories under the control of the
Project Development Unit.
139.   The World Bank's financing would follow the normal World Bank disbursement procedures as
summarized in the Disbursement Handbook. Loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible project
expenditures, either (a) directly to suppliers; (b) by means of special commitments to support letters of
credit issued by the borrower's bank in favor of foreign suppliers of goods and services; or (c) by way
of reimbursement to participating enterprises/agencies where expenditures have already been incurred.
140.    Disbursements would be made against eligible project expenditures for: (a) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures on goods, 100 percent of local expenditure on goods (ex-factory) and 75 percent of
other items procured locally; and (b) 100 percent of expenditures on consultant services, training,
technical assistance and procurement agent costs. Disbursements for contracts of or above US$50,000
equivalent would be made against full documentation, and for those less than this amount will be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Full documentation in support of SOFS would be retained
by the implementing agencies for at least two years after disbursement. This information would be
available for review by the World Bank staff during supervision and the auditors. The estimated
disbursements of IBRD loan are presented in Table 5.4.



32
TABLE 5.4: Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
(US$ millions)
Category             Amount of Loan      Percent of Expenditure to be
____________________________j  Allocated          Financed
1. Equipment and Machinery           60            100% of foreign,
(a) Cadastre Mapping               32           100% of local (ex-factory) and
(b) Registration and              28            75% of other items procured
Institutional Development                    locally
2. Consultants' Services and          8            100%
Training
3. Unallocated                        12
Total                               80           __
H. ACCOUNTING
141.    The Project would have an accounting and control system capable of reliably recording and
reporting all financial transactions. An appropriate accounting and control system would be put in place
by the Project Development Unit (PDU). This system must be operational when project expenditures
begin. For the use of Statements of Expenditure, the PDU would process and maintain SOE
documentation to be satisfactory to the World Bank. For the Special Account (SA) mechanism, the PDU
and the depository commercial bank would introduce arrangements for proper accounting of receipts,
payments and submission of disbursement documentation to the World Bank for replenishment of the
account.
I. REPORTING
142.    The World Bank requires the financial performance and status of a project to be monitored
regularly during implementatiop. As a result, the PDU would provide quarterly financial reports to the
World Bank throughout the monitoring period. The quarterly autd annual accounts for the project will
report on the cash receipts and expenditures relating to each component and the overall financial
performance of the project. The detailed accounts for the project would not only include expenditures
financed by the World Bank, but also the expenditures financed by the government agencies and other
donors where applicable. These reports would reflect actual activity versus planned expenditure for the
most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date and project inception-to-date. The format and individual
classification of receipts and expenditures has been designed and was agreed upon between the Russian
Government and the World Bank (see Annex 7) during negotiations and will be distributed to the
accounting officer in the Project Development Unit (PDU).
143.   As SOEs and a SA will be used in this project, the PDU would be requested to submit, together
with the accounts for the project on a quarterly basis (i) a schedule of SOE expenditures and amounts,
and (ii) a summary of the SA activity and reconciliation with the SA balance in the commercial bank
account and the Project Account. All unaudited quarterly reports are to be submitted to reach the World
Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter.



33
144.   Quarterly project reports on the physical performance of the project showing actual and planned
performance for the quarter and accumulated to date would also be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
These reports, also submitted to reach the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter,
would include comments highlighting project progress and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan
for remedial actions where necessary. Detailed reporting requirements would be finalized during the
project launch workshop and would include key physical and financial indicators. In addition, a
comprehensive joint mid-term review (MTR), would be carried out by the PDU and the Bank, within
three months from the end of 30 months from project effectiveness. Agreement on reporting procedures,
Droject accounts, financial statements and monitoring targets was reached during negotiations.
J. AUDITING
145.   Annual accounts for the project including SOEs and the SA as specified in the Loan Agreement,
for each fiscal year, would be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an
independent auditor, acceptable to the World Bank. The auditor would be appointed by the borrower
close to the beginning of the fiscal year, so that the auditor may commence reviews sufficiently early in
the fiscal year to complete the audit on a timely basis. Terms of Reference for the auditor, acceptable
to the World Bank, would need to be prepared. The financial statements and the auditor's opinion and
reports should be submitted to the World Bank no later than six months after completion of the fiscal
year. Agreement on audit requirements was reached during negotiations.
VTI
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PRoJEcr MANAGEMENT
Russian Land Committee
146.   The organization responsible for project implementation will be the Russian Committee for Land
Resources and Land Management. The Russian Land Committee was created in October 1990 by
executive decree as the primary government organization concerned with land administration and
management in Russia. The Russian Land Committee has the mandate to establish a land cadastre and
a national system of land registration. Subordinate committees and offices at 88 regions (oblasts, krays
and republics) and 2,500 districts (rayons) and cities have already been set up, thereby covering virtually
the entire country. A list of government resolutions defining the responsibilities and mandate of the
Russian Land Committee is provided in Annex 8.
147.   The Committee is directly subordinated to the Council of Ministers and reports to the Deputy
Prime Minister for Agriculture. The Committee is headed by a Chairman who is assisted by five Deputy
Chairmen. The Committee has a staff of about 150 at the federal level. Land Committee offices at the
oblast level (56 oblasts and krays, 20 autonomous republics, 10 autonomous okrugs, and the cities of
Moscow and St. Petersburg) have a total staff of about 3300. The district, city, and town land
conmmittees comprise a staff of about 15,300. The federal budget provides the financing for the Russian
Land Committee, at the federal, oblast and rayon levels.
148.    The lead organization for project implementation under the Russian Land Committee will be
the Russian Center for Scientific Support to Land Reform - RosNITs 'Zemlya" or Land Reform Center.
It is located in Moscow with a total staff of about 150, predominantly computer specialists and surveyors.



34
Its main responsibilities are to develop organizational schemes and systems approaches for implementation
of land reform policies, and as such is responsible for development of the land cadastre. It has had
primary contacts with foreign organizations with regard to technical assistance and pilot projects.
149.    The other agency with a direct role in project implementation is the All-Russian Institute for
Agricultural Aerophotogeodetic Research, or VISKhAGI. VISKhAGI was established in 1931 and until
1990 was part of the Ministry of Agriculture. VISKhAGI was traditionally responsible for preparing
agricultural maps of 1:10,000 and 1:25,000 scales. When it became subordinate to the Russian Land
Committee in 1990, its mandate and responsibilities were expanded. These now include initiation of
larger scale maps for developed areas in and around towns and cities and renewed emphasis on traditional
scale maps in support of the land reform process.
150.    VISKhAGI has a central facility in Moscow with a staff of about 250. Nearly 60 percent are
surveyors or geodeticists, 15 percent are support staff, and the remainder are involved in various map
production responsibilities. In addition to the central facility in Moscow, VISKhAGI has four functioning
regional affiliates, with a staff of 1550. These are located in St. Petersburg--Northwest region,
Novocherkassk--Southern region, Perm--Urals region, and Omsk-Siberian region.
151.    The Russian Land Committee interacts with other state organizations. That interaction is
particularly complicated in the larger cities, especially Moscow and St. Petersburg. The other State
organizations include the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Property Committee (GKI), local Housing
Committees in major cities, the Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI) which is the source of records on
structures, the State Committee on Water Resources, the State Forestry Committee, the Ministry of
Ecology and Natural Resources, the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, and the Federal
Service for Geodetics and Cartography. In addition, Land Comnmittee offices at the oblast and rayon
levels, though funded from the federal budget, are in practice closely associated with their respective
oblast and rayon governments.
Establishment of the PDU
152.    Currently, there is a clear gap in Russia's institutional capabilities to address reform issues in
agriculture; and identify, prepare and evaluate projects for funding by the Bank and other multilateral
agencies. This process is further complicated by the lack of experienced staff in govermnent agencies,
who can effectively use the principles of market economics in project preparation and decision-making.
The LARIS project would support the establishment of a Project Development Unit. The establishment
of such a Unit would thus remove one of the major constraints and create the needed in-house capacity
to prepare and implement Bank supported land projects.
153.    The LARIS project requires a strong project management unit for successful implementation.
Given the limited experience of the Russian Land Committee in the implementation of externally funded
projects, coupled with the urgent need to provide on-the-job training to Russian experts, it is necessary
to establish a Project Development Unit to coordinate the management and implementation of the LARIS
project. An ordinance was issued on April 21, 1994 by the Chairman of the Russian Land Committee
establishing a Project Development Unit within RosNITs "Zemlya' for the project.
154.    The PDU will be a separate unit located within the Land Reform Center of the Russian Land
Committee. It will function for the duration of the LARIS Project and will be staffed primarily by
Russians. During the first two years of the project the PDU will include three foreign experts
(procurement, accounting and project management) to provide training and assistance and ensure the
smooth start-up of PDU functions. The objectives of the Project Development Unit are twofold: (a) to



35
provide the Russian Land Committee with the critically needed institutional support to implement the
LARIS project; and (b) to prepare investment projects for financing by the World Bank and other
international organizations. Appropriate training and technical assistance would be provided to the SLC
for undertaking this effort.
155.   A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will be established to assist and advise the Chairman
of the Russian Land Committee (who will chair this Commrittee) to implement the LARIS project, identify
critical policy issues, and establish priorities for preparing land projects for funding by the World Bank
or other international financial institutions. The Committee members will represent the Russian Land
Committee, Ministry of Finance, and the Government department which is authorized to coordinate
World Bank projects in Russia. This Committee would meet periodically to address implementation
problems that would require inter-ministerial coordination and intervention.
156.   Sructure of the PDU. The Chairman of the SLC, or his designate, will be responsible, through
the PDU, for the management of the proposed LARIS Project. The PDU will be headed by a Director
and will function as an autonomous unit reporting through the Director of RosNITs "Zemlya" to the
Chairman of the SLC. It will be empowered to coordinate and manage the day to day implementation
of the LARIS project.
157.   The PDU will consist of two departments: (a) Project Implementation Department (PID); and
(b) Project Preparation Department (PPD). Each of these departments will be headed by a Deputy
Director. The selection and appointment of the PDU Director and Deputy Directors would be the
responsibility of the Chairman or his designate. The detailed organizational structure, functions, staffing
plans, recruitment of staff, operational procedures and authority of the PDU are in Annex 9.
158.   The Project Implementation Department (PID) will coordinate the implementation of the LARIS
project. It will have three sections which will deal with implementation of each of the three LARIS
components. The PID staff, with sufficient technical experience and qualification, would coordinate and
monitor the implementation of various components and sub-components of the LARIS Project. Foreign
consultants would be engaged to provide necessary support for procurement, accounting and project
management. The procurement and accounting specialists would work with the Russian staff preparing
them to take full responsibility for their areas of responsibility. The project management specialist would
work with PID Deputy Director and report to the PDU Director.
159.   The PPD would develop much needed analytical capacity in Russia for identifying and preparing
new land reform projects for financing by the international financial institutions. This department would
consist of economists, financial analysts, technical specialists, and experts in agricultural project
management. The PPD would also engage staff/consultants with specific technical expertise to meet
specific needs. The foreign experts with skills in these broad areas would work with the Russian staff
to prepare priority projects dealing with different aspects of land reform and land development. The
Bank will review the TORs and selection of consultants. The reports will be jointly reviewed by the SLC
and the Bank.
160.    PDU Staffing. The PDU will be staffed by both local and foreign experts. The PDU would
have a competent (i) Finance Officer with appropriate qualification and experience in international
accounting practices to be responsible for the introduction and management of all financial and accounting
matters required for project implementation and preparation; and (ii) Procurement Officer trained in the
precurement procedures of the World Bank with the ability to train, direct and guide procurement
activities for the LARIS Project. These two appointments would have the concurrence of the World
Bank. In addition, the PDU would have access to a Legal Officer who is well versed in Russian law and



36
international law. Agreement on staffing, organization, functions and financing of the PDU was
completed during negotiations. Appointment of key Russian staff (accountant and procurement specialist)
to the PDU would be completed prior to loan effectiveness.
161.   All the Russian PDU staff will be recruited locally and paid locally competitive salaries. Most
of the staff appointments would be fixed-term and will be designed to complete a specific assignment.
This is essential to give the PDU the flexibility to change its staff mix to reflect the land project portfolio
under implementation and preparation. All PDU staff will be required to work full-time for the
implementation of the LARIS project. Critical PDU staff will be expected to have a working knowledge
of spoken and written English. The local PDU staff would be supported by at least three foreign experts,
as noted above, as well as foreign experts to be financed out of project preparation funds in the PDU.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
162.    The Russian Land Committee will be the implementing agency for the LARIS project. The
PDU will coordinate all the work related to budgeting, procurement, disbursement, audit, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation. The Project Implementation Department of the PDU will coordinate the day
to day operations of the LARIS project. Two project groups will be established within the Land Center.
These groups will be responsible for implementation of the land registration and cadastral mapping
components and report directly to the Project Implementation Department. The central project groups
will be established and their directors appointed prior to loan effectiveness.
163.    Land Cadastre Mapping. A project group for cadastral mapping will be established within
RosNITs "Zemlya". It will be responsible for carrying out the implementation of digital mapping
technology under the project and provision of mapping output to the registration groups included in the
project on a timely basis and will monitor and oversee project implementation at the six mapping
enterprises. The project group will test system designs and carry out technical training in conjunction
with foreign experts to be provided under the technical assistance. Me,nbers of the project group will
also take part in foreign training early in the project to prepare them for these responsibilities. The project
group will be composed of 21 staff; a director, 5 mapping specialists, 11 engineers and software
specialists and 4 support staff. The head of the project group for cadastral mapping will report directly
to the head of the Project Implementation Department of the PDU and be responsible for overall
implementation of this component. The project group will draw from among RosNITs "Zemlya's"
existing staff of 150 as well as recruitment from outside. They will be provided with necessary
equipment during the first phase of the project. The project group will interact closely with VISKhAGI
in Moscow in carrying out its tasks, in arranging training for staff at participating mapping enterprises,
and for overseeing start-up and operation of equipment at these locations. VISKhAGI is the most suitable
agency to handle cadastre mapping, due to its close affiliation with and accountability to the SLC.
Agreement on the staffing, organization and functions of the central project group was reached during
negotiations and key staff will be in place prior to loan effectiveness.
164.    Land Registraion. A project group for land registration will be established within RosNITs
"Zemlya" prior to loan effectiveness, with its head responsible for implementation of this sub-component
and reporting directly to the head of the Project Implementation Department of the PDU. This group will
be responsible for implementation of the automated land registration system. It will work in close
collaboration with the project group for cadastre mapping in ensuring the integration of digital mapping
output from the cadastral mapping component. The project group will be the center for in-country
training in land registration and will be directly assisted by foreign experts included in the land
registration technical assistance package. Besides a director, the staff will be composed of systems
analysts, software programmers, specialists in registration and support staff. General agreement on the



37
staffing and organization of the central project group was reached during negotiations and will be further
elaborated during the project launch workshop. Staff would be in place prior to loan effectiveness. The
project group in Moscow will oversee ten oblast project groups that will be part of the Land Committees
of the ten oblasts included in the automated registration system. The oblast project groups will serve as
additional in-country training centers, assist in implementation and operation of the registration system -
particularly the incorporation of digital mapping into the system - and monitor overall progress in project
implementation at the oblast and rayon levels. The oblast project groups in first phase oblasts will be
established prior to loan effectiveness.
165.   Institutional Development. The institutional development component would be implemented
by the Project Implementation Department in close collaboration with the Russian Land Committee, the
Land Center and VISKhAGI. Senior management of the SLC has worked with the World Bank to
identify areas for technical assistance and training and will play a key role in implementation of this sub-
component.
166.   The Bank will work closely with the Russian Land Committee and the PDU to facilitate project
implementation. The Bank will assist the Russian Land Committee in establishing shortlists and the
selection of the three foreign consultants to the PDU, the organizations to participate in the foreign
training program, and partner organizations and consultants to carry out the technical assistance
component of the project. The Bank will review selections in all three areas. The Bank will also review
contracts for technical assistance and training prior to their finalization. The Russian Land Committee
will be responsible for verifying the qualifications and capabilities of selected organizations and
individuals.
C. RMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
167.   The project is scheduled to be implemented over a five-year period, beginning in the second half
of 1994. The detailed implementation plan and criteria for participation of selected oblasts are presented
in Annex 10. Recognizing the clear operational difficulties in Russia at present, the project aims for a
gradual, phased implementation, with sufficient time to test procedures, technologies, operating
relationships, and institutional capability in the first phases of the project. The first phase of the project,
roughly the first 6 months of implementation, will focus on establishing the foreign training program,
initiating technical assistance in the three core areas (land registry management, legal aspects of land
registration, and digital mapping technology), fully staffing and equipping the two central project groups,
beginning testing of the automated registration system in the central project group for registration and the
digital mapping technologies in the central project group for mapping, beginning the equipping of the first
phase of rayons in the supplemental registration program, and initiating in-ountry training at the federal
level. During this phase, the mobilization of existing maps for digitization would also be initiated.
168.    During the second phase of the project, the following 12 months, the first phase of mapping
enterprises and automated registratio" groups will be established. This will depend on the successful
testing of digital mapping and autor :ed registration techniques during phase one. Two mapping
enterprises will be equipped (Moscow . d Nizhny Novgorod) and the first four oblast project groups will
be established and equipped (Moscow, Tula, Nizhny Novgorod, and St. Petersburg) as will four oblast
registration groups (the four oblasts just mentioned). Establishment of approximately 15 rayon automated
registration groups within these four oblasts will be completed. In addition, the Federal Registration
Bureau within the Russian Land Committee will be established and equipped. Testing of data transfers
between the mapping enterprises and the automated registration groups will begin during this phase. In-
country training will be intensified, with on-site training at the new mapping enterprises and establishment
of training centers as part of the oblast project groups. At the close of this phase, technical assistance



38
in the non-core areas will begin. Equipping of the first phase of supplemental registration rayons will
be completed and the issuance of land certificates in these rayons will begin. An assessment of the
supplemental program will be made at the close of this phase and a joint plan will be drawn up for its
further implementation.
169.    Based on the successful experience during the second phase of the project, implementation of
the mapping and registration components will be broadened in the subsequent year. Testing of data
transfers between mapping enterprises and automated registration groups will be completed. Two
additional mapping enterprises will be brought on line (Pern and Novocherkassk) and the second phase
of oblast project groups (Perm, Orel, Rostov and Voronezh) will be established. Oblast registration
groups will also be set up in these four oblasts and automated registration groups will be established in
about 30 rayons. Based on the assessment of the supplemental registration programn, a second group of
up to 100 rayons would be equipped during this phase of the project. The first digital mapping will be
produced in Moscow and Nizhny Novgorod and the first land certificates issued by the automated
registration groups. A comprehensive mid-term review of the project will be held during this phase of
the project.
170.   The fourth phase of the project will complete project implementation at the regional and oblast
level. The two remaining mapping enterprises (Omsk and St. Petersburg) will begin operation and the
last oblast project groups and oblast registration groups (Omsk and Samara) will be established as will
approximately 30 more automated registration groups at the rayon level. If experience warrants, an
additional phase of up to 150 rayons will be set up under the supplemental program in this phase of the
project. During this phase, technical assistance in non-core areas will be completed, and digital mapping
will come on line from Pern and Novocherkassk.
171.   The final phase of the project, accounting for approximately 18 months, will complete project
implementation at the rayon level. The remaining 25 rayons in the automated registration program will
be equipped. If experience warrants, a final phase of up to 150 rayons will be equipped under the
supplemental registration program. During this phase, technical assistance in the three core areas will
also be completed. In-country training in registration at the regional project centers will continue after
the close of the project. All digital mapping enterprises will be functioning at full capacity, and
registration functions will be operational in all project rayons.
D. SUPERVISION PLAN
172.   Project Launch Workshop. A project launch workshop will be held in Moscow in July 1994.
The project launch team will work with staff of the PDU, the trading organizations, representatives of
the conunercial bank administering the Special Account, and representatives of the Russian Land
Committee to review imnplementation procedures to be follewed in the project. The project launch
workshop will also involve representatives of the central and oblast project groups, the mapping
enterprises and representatives of the oblasts and rayons included in the registration programs for review
of the implementation schedule, coordination of information flows and implementation support, and
coverage of relevant implementation issues including staffing, training, preparation of premises, and
procedures for accounting and reporting. The project launch workshop will also review arrangements
for technical assistance and training with representatives of the Russian Land Committee and the PDU.
173.   Superwision Arrangements. Supervision of project implementation at the oblast levels, and at
the six mapping enterprises will be the responsibility of the central and oblast project groups. They will
be responsible for overseeing the installation and use of equipment, for ensuring the adequate provision
of spare parts and office supplies and indicating bottlenecks in these areas, for adequate staffing of



39
registration groups and mapping enterprises, for the allocation and preparation of adequate premises for
these groups and mapping enterprises, and for conduct and supervision of training at the oblast and
regional level. The oblast and central project groups will be responsible for supervising the accounting
and reporting activities of the registration groups and mapping enterprises, and for supervising the flow
of mapping information from the mapping enterprises to the registration groups.
174.   The PDU will be responsible for overseeing the supervisory functions of the central and oblast
project groups. It will be responsible for supervising the conduct of equipment servicing and repair for
the entire project. In addition, it will directly supervise the foreign training program, the technical
assistance components, and in-country training at the federal level. It will also be responsible for assuring
that aerial photography in rayons covered by the automated program is scheduled as planned, and for
ensuring the timely delivery of photographs to mapping enterprises. It will be responsible for supervising
procurement activities as specified in Annex 6, and in managing the operation of the Special Account.
175.   The supervision plan and schedule for supervision missions is developed in Annex 11. During
the first year of the project, four Bank supervision missions would be required, followed by three
supervision missions during each of the ensuing years. Each mission would be staffed by appropriate
experts and will be of two to three weeks duration. The mission would review the physical targets,
monitor the impact and assess the institutional development and implementation procedures agreed for
the project; identify critical implementation problems and agree on remedial actions. Supervision costs
of the project are expected to be high because of the Russian Land Commnittee's lack of experience in
implementing World Bank projects and other operational difficulties in Russia. The supervision missions
will be assisted by staff from the Resident Mission who will also be available to advise the government
between the missions. This would be further supplemented by hiring qualified local consultants on a
continuing basis.
176.   During implementation the Bank will monitor: (a) staffing and premises of the central and oblast
project groups, the PDU, mapping enterprises, oblast and rayon registration groups included in the
automated program, and rayon registration offices included in the supplemental registration program; (b)
location and use of goods and equipment financed by the project; (c) the performance of service and
maintenance work included in the project; (d) the allocation and use of counterpart funds; (e) the
scheduling and carrying out of aerial photography in rayons included in the automated registration
program; (f) the carrying out of foreign training; (g) the initiation and implementation of in-country
training; (h) the start-up and implementation of the technical assistance packages; (i) the delivery of
photography to mapping enterprises; a) the production of cadastral maps on 1:2000 and 1:10,000 scales
by project oblast; (k) the adjudication of land parcels in project areas; (l) the issuance of land certificates
under both the automated and supplemental registration programs; (m) public access to information in
the land registry; and (n) maintenance of all project accounts. Following completion of implementation
of the first phase of the supplemental registration program, the SLC and the Bank will agree on the
further implementation of the supplemental program, in particular the location and geographic spread of
subsequent rayons included in this program.
177.    One of the Bank supervision missions would be carried out in the last quarter of each
implementation year to assess progress during the past year and plan the work program and budgetary
allocations for the following year. The Russian Land Committee, with assist;nce from the PDU, will
prepare brief reports for discussion during the mission and will provide evidence of necessary budgetary
allocations to carry out the planned work. A detailed mid-term review will be carried out by December
1996 and will involve the Bank and relevant Borrower agencies. Supervision missions will be scheduled,
as much as possible, to coincide with start-up of the oblast project groups and mapping enterprises.



40
VII
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RiSKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
178.   The project is expected to have substantial economic and financial benefits. Because the LARIS
project is aimed primarily at building up necessary public infrastructure and strengthening public
institutions, quantification of the economic benefits is difficult. The project's potential benefits include
improved cadastre information, and enhanced economic incentives, agricultural production, farm
investment, and environmental protection. More importantly, this project would lay the foundation for
future reforms for land and in the agricultural sector. It will train a large number of Russian experts in
different aspects of land administration, including preparation and implementation of future agricultural
projects (land reform, land development and farm restructuring) to be financed by the Bank. The training
and technical assistance will impart important skills to the staff of agencies involved in project
implementation at the federal and regional levels. The creation of viable institutional capacity is
necessary for a more efficient agricultural sector based on private ownership and market principles
determining land transactions.
179.    The project will provide valuable support to the nascent process of land registration in Russia
so as to establish clarity of title, simplify the process of buying, selling, leasing ar.d mortgaging land,
provide a reliable record for valuation and tax purposes, and accelerate the process of issuing land
certificates. The benefits will come from a number of sources. First, as the process of land registration
becomes established, those owners who already hold title documents to their land will become more
confident of their rights. Second, the project will accelerate issuing of new land certificates. The vast
majority of small parcel owners, large agricultural enterprises and other enterprises entitled to land rights
do not yet have title documents. Furthermore, as the proce s of restructuring large farming enterprises
into smaller units proceeds and the number of private farr increases, demands on the land registration
system will continue to increase. Thiid, the project wiA. significantly advance the registration system
itself, which represents an essential underpinming for efficient markets in land and public policy with
respect to land. Establishment of a land registration system, and the resulting comprehensive system of
land records, would establish a reliable basis for land mortgaging and an improved information base for
tax collection. Fourth, the project will strengthen institutional capacity in areas such as adjudication of
land disputes, land valuation, land use control, environmental monitoring, land mortgaging and economic
management of state lands. While the long-term impact cannot be fully quantified the contribution to
reform and to economic recovery is expected to be substantial.
B. PRoJEcT BENEFICIARES
180.  The primary beneficiaries of the project will be land owners. In the rural sector both existing
farms undergoing restructuring and new private farmers will benefit by the issuance of land certificates
which will document the legal ownership of land by the title holder. In the long-term, the nation will
benefit through improved agricultural production and enhanced land revenues through various cost
recovery mechanisms.
181.   The establishment of land registration systems will improve the financial position of land owners
by satisfying a necessary condition for access to land mortgages and by increasing market values of land.
Given the unique historical opportunity to establish a comprehensive national land registry, uncertainties
and confusion associated with the systems that evolved over centuries in many Westem countries can be
avoided. A clear and comprehensive system of land records, containing all necessary information on



41
rights and servitudes will reduce the social cost of land conveyancing, other operations in land, and land
administration. These benefits will accrue to both land owners and society in general.
182.  Land registry will record land classified as being in special environmental categories (e.g. sanitary
zones, water resource preserves and national preserves) with the objective of protecting the use of such
lands. Information on environmental guidelines will be provided to oblast and rayon level land
registration units to assist these in the delineation of land parcels for new land users.
C. ENvRoNmENTAL AsPEc s
183.   The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment. The move toward private
land ownership promoted by this project is expected to foster more prudent use of land and other natural
resources. Positive spinoffs, which may occur as a result of the setup of a land cadastre system, would
be more along the lines of assisting environmental agencies by providing an improved land registry
information to enforce land use restrictions, officially register national parks and monitor land use more
closely. However, any environmental concerns will be addressed during implementation of the project
by applying Bank's and country's environmental requirements and guidelines. In addition, public
awareness on any agricultural envirownental issues will be created arough appropriately designed
environmental information monitoring, informnation dissemination, technical assistance and training
programs. Any environmentally based limitations associated with a given land parcel will be noted on
the land certificates issued under the LARIS project. The project has a "C" environmental assessment
category.
D. PROJECT RIS
184.   While potential benefits of the proposed LARIS project are substantial, the potential operational
risks are also large. The overall macroeconomic instability complicates project implementation. While
the financing arrangements for the LARIS project are straightforward, with the Federal budget providing
counterpart funds all the way down to the rayon level, the danger of a shortfall of counterpart funds
during the life of the project clearly exists. The prevailing salary structure for government employees
will make it difficult to attract and retain highly skilled personnel for project implementation.
185.   While the LARIS project does not address the policy issue of farm restructuring and is designed
on the basis of existing government guidelines for land reform, the entire area of property rights in land
remains contentious within the Russian Federation. The central notion of strengthening ownership rights
in land and enhancing the ability of private individuals and enterprises to make decisions on the allocation
and use of property in a market environment remains a relatively new concept irn Russia. It is far from
being widely understood or accepted. There are strong concerns on the Russian side that increased
freedom for the private sector will lead to grossly inequitable distributions of property and decreased,
rather than increased, economic efficiency. There are institutional biases which are oriented toward
subordinating the rights of individuals to discretionary powers of the State. The October 27, 1993 decree
on agrarian reform reaffirmed and strengthened individual rights. The possibility does exist of a policy
reversal which would at least temporarily undercut the relevance and potential benefits of the LARIS
project.
186.    The ongoing contention over national land policy is reflected in uncertain institutional
arrangements. Because land and structures were treated completely separately during the Soviet period,
the current government inherits a situation where many state agencies are involved in managing and
registering rights in property. The Russian Land Committee has clear mandate to manage questions
affecting land, but a number of other agencies are involved in the management and oversight of



42
commercial and residential structures. Coordination of property registration is, therefore, essential.
However, in the current situation state agencies are frequently working at cross purposes and the
competition for a potentially greater role in the future is intense.
187.   The LARIS project will face risks common to all Bank projects in Russia at present stemming
from the lack of government experience with such projects and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures.
This will be the first Bank project in the area of land reform, and the first undertaken by the Russian
Land Committee. The SLC lacks the institutional capability, skills, or experience to carry out project
implementation without significant technical assistance. In addition, the SLC is now responsible for land
administration and management issues far different from what existed prior to the economic reform. In
many cases, these are issues which have not been raised in Russia for decades and for which little
domestic expertise currently exists. Furthermore, the SLC and subordinate institutions involved in project
implementation, such as the Land Reform Center and VISKhAGI, are likely to have trouble retaining
highly skilled staff. In recent years, VISKhAGI in particular has had difficulty attracting and retaining
such staff.
188.    The Federal budget finances activity of oblast and rayon land committees. However land
committees at those levels are strongly oriented toward oblast and rayon governments. While such dual
subordination is natural and necessary, it represents a complicating factor for the project. The LARIS
project aims to introduce a core national system of land registration which can be supplemented at the
regional level as necessary. To achieve this goal, working relations between the Federal level and oblast
level agencies need to be smooth aad communication efficient. Such communication and cooperation has
not always been in evidence during project preparation.
189.   The LARIS project has been designed in a way to address and minimize these unavoidable risks.
First, the project is designed on the basis of existing government land policy and in a way to reflect the
government's best approaches to land use issues. Second, it has been designed . J as not to contradict
the larger goal of coordinating all property registration activity. Third, a strong Project Development
Unit will be established within the existing Russian Land Committee hierarchy to address the serious
implementation issues, with clear and strong links down to the oblast level. Fourth, training and technical
assistance will be provided for basic project implementation skills as well as for subject areas pertinent
to the LARIS project. Fifth, counterpart fmancing is expected to be channeled to the SLC through a
separate budget line item. Sixth, the project will be intensively supervised (including a project launch
workshop, annual reviews and a comprehensive mid-term review) such that appropriate and timely actions
are taken to avoid and overcome implementation problems.  Finally, the issue of Government
commitment to land reform and land markets is a key part of our overall policy dialogue with the
Government and the proposed project would provide more specific opportunities to address these issues.



43
AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. PROJEcr AGREEMENTS
190.    The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(i)    Agreement on detailed procedures to be followed in adjudication, demarcation and survey
of land parcels and their timing (para. 99);
(ii)    Agreement on cost recovery principles (para. 131);
(iii)   Agreement on principles for scheduling aerial photography of rayons selected for
automated registration (para. 91);
(iv)   Agreement on the organization, staffing, functions and financing of the PDU and central
project groups (paras. 160, 163, 164);
(v)    Agreement on provision of periodic reports on project progress, accourts for the project,
audit requirements and financial statements (paras. 142-145);
(vi)   Agreement on the first phase of rayons for the supplemental registration program (para.
106);
(vii)  Agreement on selection procedures for procurement agents (para 137);
(viii)  Agreement on selection procedures for a conunercial bank to manage the Special Account
(para 127);
(ix)   Agreement on guidelines for oblast participation in the project (para 85);
(x)    Agreement on project output in terms of maps and certificates (paras 90, 104, 106);
(xi)   Agreement on information contained in the land registration system (para 97); and
(xii)   Agreement on retroactive financing (para 124).
191.   The following are the conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)   Issuance of the procedures for registration of land and other real estate, acceptable to the
Bank (para 99);
(ii)   Appointment of key staff of the PDU (accountant, procurement specialist) and the central
project groups (technical specialists) (paras. 160, 163, 164);
(iii)   Establishment of oblast project implementation groups for first phase oblasts (para. 164);
and



44
(iv)   Establishment of the Project Account and an initial deposit of US$0.5 million equivalent
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank (para. 125).
B. RECOMMENDATION
192.  The proposed LARIS Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$ 80 million
equivalent to the Russian Federation for a period of 17 years, including a 5 years grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.



45
ANNEXES



46                                  ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LAIS) PROJECT
MAJOR LAWS. DECREES. REsoLuTIoNS
PERTAINiNG TO LAND REFORM
CONSTITUNON
The Constitution, Dec. 12, 1993. Approved by referendum, it recognizes private, state,
municipal and other forms of ownership over land, all with equal status under the law. Previous
moratoria on land sales are abolished.
LAWS
1.    On Land Reform, October 23, 1990, with changes December 27, 1990, reintroduced the
concept of land ownership in Russia.
2.    On Peasant Farms, Nov. 22, 1990 with changes Dec. 27, 1990, established a legal
framework for private family farms.
3.    On Ownership in the RSFSR, Dec. 24, 1990. The basic document dealing with property
rights, including rights in land. Elaborated and refined in subsequent legislation.
4.    The RSFSR Land Code, April 25, 1991. Defines the basis of land ownership, use and
disposition. A revised version was prepared by the Supreme Soviet in 1993, but never
approved by the President. Most of the Land Code was pronounced invalid by a
Presidential Decree on Dec. 24, 1993. The Federal Assembly is responsible for
preparing a new land code.
5.    On Payment for Land, Oct. 11, 1991. The law provides methodology for determining
sales price, land tax and lease payments (for state land leased to private persons), using
regional coefficients and technical measurements.
6.    On the Rights of Citizens to Acquire as Private Property and to Sell Land Parcels to
Conduct Subsidiarv Fanming and Dacha Onerations. Horticulture and Private Housing
Construction, Dec. 23, 1992. Eliminated sales moratoria for small land parcels
(generally less than 0.5 hectares) in the above categories.



47                                   ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
PRESIDENTAL DECREES
1.    On Urgent Measures for Implementation of Land Reform, No. 323, Dec. 27, 1991.
Provides for the destructuring of state and collective farms and the creation of a state
reserve fund of land for reallocation of agricultural land to private users.
2.    On Reeulations for Determining Norms of Free Transfer of Land to Private Pro erty,
No. 218, M4arch 2, 1992. Procedures for determining land share entitlements for state
and collecti ie farm workers and other individuals applying to establish private farms.
3.    On Proced.ures for the Sale of Land Parcels during Privatization of State and Municipal
Enterprses, No. 631, June 14, 1992. Establishes procedures for sale or long-term lease
of land beneath state and municipal enterprises undergoing privatization.
4.    On Additional Measures for Allotting Land Parcels to Citizens, No. 480, April 23, 1993.
Reinforces earlier decrees for allocation of land to private owners. Sets out operational
guidelines for the allocation process.
5.    On Certain Measures to Supoort Peasant (Private) Farms and Agricultural Cooperatives,
No. 1139, July 27, 1993. Laid out steps to support the further development of private
farms and private farmer cooperation.
6.    On Regulation of Land Relations and Develonment of Agrarian Reform in Russia, No.
1767, Oct 27, 1993. Eliminates restrictions on the sale of land, and reiterates the right
to mortgage land. Greatly simpl:fies the procedure for registration of land by eliminating
the need for surveys as part of land titles. Establishes a simplified "Certificate of Title"
as the basic land registration document. Reiterates the mandate of the State Land
Committee to administer the land registration system. Identifies structures as well as land
in the concept of real estate.
7.    On Tax Pments for the Sale of Land Parcels and Oter Operations in Land, No. 2118,
Dec. 7, 1993. A system of fees established for land transactions, land inheritance, and
land grants tied to existing income tax rates.
8.    On the State Land Cadastre and Registation of Documents of Rights in Real Estate, No.
2130, Dec. 11, 1993. Calls for establishmnent of a unified property registry (land and
structures) and gives responsibility for such registration activity to the State Land
Committee.
9.    On Strengthenina of State Supervision over the Use and Protection of Land During
InDlementation of Land Reform. No. 2162, Dec. 16, 1993. Establishes penalties for
inppropriate use of land.
10.   On Inouion of Land lislation of the Russian Federtion in Accordance with the
Consuon of the Russian Federation, No. 2287, December 24, 1993. Declared invalid
large portions of the April 1991 Land Code, the 1990 Law on Land Reform and removed
description of land auction prcedur  from Decree No. 1767 of October 1993.



48                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
GOVERNMENT RESOLUTIONS
1.    On Sunnorting the Development of Peasant Farm, No. 9, Jan. 4, 1991. Introduced
measures to facilitate the establishment of private family farms.
2.    On Procedures for the Reorganization of Collective and State Farms, No. 86, Dec. 29,
1991. Set out procedures for reorganization of state and collective farms including joint
stock companies and limited liability partnerships.
3.    On Determining the Size of Land Tax and Normative Prices for Land, No. 112, Feb. 25,
1992. Outlined an administrative approach to assess land values by region.
4.    On Land Monitorina, No. 491, June 15, 1992. Mandated the State Land Committee and
the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources to monitor the use of land.
5.    On Perfecting the Implementation of the State Land Cadastre in Russia, No. 622, Aug.
25, 1992. Specified the principles for operating and maintaining the State Land Cadastre
with primary responsibility to the State Land Committee.
6.    On Procedures for the Privatization and Reorganization of Enterprises and Organizations
of the Agro-Industrial Complex, No. 708, Sept. 4, 1992. Reiterated and elaborated
procedures for reorganization of state and collective farms and introduced a specialized
privatization program for food processing and agro-service enterprises.
7.    On Affimation of Principles for Cmensation of Loss of Ownership. Land Use, and
Land Lasing and Associated Loss of Agricultural Production, No. 77, Jan. 28, 1993.
Established procedures to compensate land owners and lessees for damages to soil or
agricultural production caused by third parties or in cases of land seizure on the principle
of eminent domain.
8.    On the State ProgLam for Monitoring Land in Russia in 1993-95, No. 100, Feb. 5, 1993
9.    On Affirming the Procedures for Approval of Land Purchases and Sales of Small Land
Parcels, No. 503, May 30, 1993. Laid out operational procedures for the free sale of
small land parcels as called for in the December 1992 Law in this area.
10. On the Procedures for Exercisinag State Control over the Utilization and Protection of
Land in the Russian Federation, No. 1362, December 23, 1993.
11.   On the Experience of Agrarian Transformation in Nizhnv Novgorod Oblast. No. 324,
April 15, 1994. Approved the results of the Nizbny Novgorod farm restructuring pilot
project; called for establishment of a regional training center in Nizhny Novgorod to
prepare specialists to carry out farm restructuring work; and ordered the elaboration of
regulations and procedures governing the process of farm restructuring by June 15, 1994.



49                                   ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
MISCELLANEOUS DOCUMENTS
I1.    Recommendations for the Reor,anization of Collective and State Farms, Jan. 14, 1992.
Laid out detailed procedures for the reorganization of these farms built around the notion
of individual land and property shares for farm members.



50                                   ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
RussuAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJEcT
BACKGROUND ON LANPD REGISTRATION AND ADJUDICATION
ITODUCTION
1.    Following 1917, the state steadily usurped all rights to the ownership of land. Beginning in the
late 1920's, individual farmers were organized into collective farms in which each member theoretically
continued to hold shares. State farms were developed as state enterprises staffed by employees. By the
1980s the two types of farms were virtually indistinguishable. The 12,000 or so collective farms averaged
about 6,600 hectares and a similar number of state farms averaged about 9,000 hectares.
2.    Private sector agriculture was permitted on the household plots of collective members, farm
employees and urban residents. Gross production on these plots which covered about 3 percent of the
arable land, was disproportionately large by comparison with the state sector. Plot size varied generally
between 0.2 and 0.5 hectares. Individuals did not own these plots but were granted use rights by local
soviets. The users of these plots often suffered a summary reduction of the area of their plots or eviction
by the local authority. Use rights were recorded by the collective cr state farm or at the Bureau of
Technical Inventory and appear to have been handed down the generations.
3.    Although the land itself was state owned, individuals could "own" the buildings which stood on
the land over which they enjoyed use rights. The ownership of buildings was and is still registered at a
Bureau of Technical Inventory in each rayon. In this way the concept of ownership of houses and dachas
continued and a market existed for transactions in the buildings and in effect the use of the land. The
transfer price was officially controlled but in practice side payments by purchasers to vendors meant there
was also a market price.
FoRM OF LAND TENURE
4.    The land reform measures introduced in the short span of four years since 1990 have created
tremendous new challenges and work for the state. In essence, a state land registration system needs to
be developed largely from scratch. The five forms of title. which together make up the land tenure
framework, are as follows:
(a)    Sobstvennost'
Nature of Title:    Equivalent to ownership
Term:               Effectively in perpetuity



51                                    ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Granted to:          Citizens (but not foreigners) as: (a) individuals or (b) Joint Collectives -
where each member's land is not separately identified and (c) Share
Collectives - where each members land is separately identified.
Entitement/Price:   (i) Former farmworkers and all members of their households, farm
pensioners and professionals eg. doctors in rural settlements receive an
average share of agricultural land calculated by reference to the total
available in a district free of charge. More land may be bought at a
"normative" price per hectare, 50 times the land tax, subject to an upper
limit of area set locally.
(ii) Plots for houses and associated use in rural areas, according to the
local "norm" free of charge.
(iii) Plots for gardening and stock-rearing previously granted transferred
to ownership free of charge, plots newly granted on marginal agricultural
or waste land according to local "norm" also free of charge.
(iv) House plots in cities and settlements are charged for but payment
may be waived for certain categories of people eg. pensioners
Conditions:          (i) May be passed on by inheritance but not by gift.
(ii) Agricultural land acquired free of charge may not be sold for ten
years from date of temporary certificate of ownership, precluding any
realistic mortgaging. (This condition has been amended to allow sale)
(ii) Land must be used for the purpose for which it was granted. A
change of use or failure to meet certain productivity targets on
agricultural land could lead to forfeiture.
(iv) May not be transferred or assigned to foreigners.
(b)    Pozhinennoe Vladenie
Natue of tle:        Inheritable possession for life.
Granted to:          As for Sobstvennost'.
Term:                Life but capable of being passed to heirs and successors.
EItlementPce:    Alternative to Sobstvennost' at the claimant's option, free of charge.
Conditions:          (i) Title may not be sold but may be leased though not subdivided.
(ii) Must be used for the purpose assigned.
(c)    Arenda
Nature of Title:     Lease
Granted to:          (i) Citizens.
(ii) Foreign Citizens.
(iii) "Stateless' persons.



52                                   ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(iv) "Juridical" persons.
(v) Foreign States, Foreign "Juridical" persons and International
associations and organizations with or without Russian and Poreign
participation.
Term:               (i) Short-term 5 years for grazing livestock, mowing for hay, market
gardening & State and Social needs.
(ii) Long-term up to 50 years (purposes not specified).
EnditlemeatlPie     No area limits specified but subject to availability. Rent not to exceed the
land tax.
Condidons:          (i) Right to grant leases is restricted to the stae except for: (a) those
temporarily unable to work or on active military service, students and
minors until the age of majority, and (b) collective and other cooperative
agricultural enterprises and joint-stock compamies, for terms not
exceeding five years.
(ii) Use restricted to purpose stipulated in lease.
(iii) Lease may be inherited for remainder of term if lessee dies before
expiry of lease.
(iv) Lessees of the state have a right to buy at some later date.
(d)   Indefinite or Pemnt Use (Beuodmoe Polzovanle)
Natmue of Itle:     Effectively use in perpetuity.
Differs from Sobstvennost' in that rights cannot be inherited or sold.
Appears to apply to the sites of buildings and not to agricultral and
undeveloped land.
(e)    Temporary Use (Kratkorochnoe Polzovanie)
Nate of Ttlie:      Short lease.
Granted to:         Citizens, enterprises, institutions and organizations.
Term:               Not exceeding 3 years except certain categories of people eg. pensioners,
and for reindeer breeding and stock ranching for which limit is 25 years.
Ret:                Not specified by law, set by local authority, in some cases free of
charge.
Conditions:         Use only for purpose for which granted.
5.    The legal framework guiding land ownership and land tenure is extremely vague at present. A
major Land Code was adopted in April 1991. A revision to that Code was approved by the Supreme
Soviet in July 1993, but never ratified by the President. Large elements of the April Lnd Code were
negated either by the recently ratified Constitution or by a Presidential Decree of December 24, 1993



53                                  ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
("On Introduction of Land Legislation in the Russian Federation in Accordance with the Constitution of
the Russian Federation", No. 2287. A new basic Land Code is now being drafted and debated.
6.    The approach adopted in the April 1991 Land Code, consistent with attitudes toward private
control over land use decisions, circumscribed land rights by obligations and restrictions. The approach
vested a great deal of power in local authorities to administer tenure, to collect rents and to rer-iedy
"violations" of property use even to the extent of expropriating title.
PROCEDURES FOR ADJUDICATION AND REGISTRATIoN
7.    In the current legal framework, processes for the first registration and subsequent dealings in land
are not well defined. This activity in most cases is the responsibility of the rayon offices of the Russian
Land Committee. These offices receive applications from individuals and enterprises (of which there are
several classifications) to register land under several types of title. The issuance of Presidential Decree
No. 1767 on October 27, 1993, altered the procedure by which this takes place.
Prior to the Issuance of Preidenial Decree No. 1767
8.    The process consisted of three steps, with the issuance of first a temporary certificate, followed
by survey work on the ground and issuance of a land title (State Act).
o Application. This involved filing a written request with the district Land Committee (or with
village councils in the case of municipally owned land). This was followed by a need to identify
the land and get permission from several different local officials. The identification of the land
involved was by use of the largest scale map or aerial photos available - usually the 1:10000
VISKhAGI map. In cases involving the establishment of new private farms, the land in most
cases was not previously subdivided and had to be demarcated in the field. The process took into
account "normative" areas prescribed on a district basis depending on the land use and soil type
and the local population relative to the amount of land available.
* Iss  of Temporary Certficate. This document identified the name of the owner(s), the total
amount of land in question, and its distribution by type of tenure and use. Issuance of the
temporary certificate was recorded at the district land committee (or village council for municipal
land), with one copy going to the land owner and one to the registering agency. This was
followed by a survey according to the regulations laid down by the Russian Land Committee. The
survey was carried out by land surveyors on the ground. In the large number of cases of
regisring small household plots, this process was extremely expensive and could be adequately
handled by photogrammetric means. Although the surveys should ideally be tied to the national
geodetic network, local dispensation was frequently granted. The result was a Survey Record
with calculations, working plans and a final plan with coordinates, bearings and distances.
o Issue of Pennanent Certificate (State Act). The State Act contained all the survey
information, a graphic representation of the parcel(s), an elaboration of the textual information
in the preliminary certificate, and a table indicating any use restrictions on the land (such as
environmental, conservancy and historical). This was accompanied by an entry in the register
held in the district land office (or with the village council in the case of municipal land) with one
copy going to the land owner and one to the registering agency. The district land committee



54                                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
provided statistics on a monthly basis to the oblast land committee which were further processed
for onward transmission to Moscow.
FoIIowing the Issuance of Presidential Decree No. 1767
9.     The above Decree changed the procedures for adjudication and registration in some significant
ways. First, it replaced the system of two docurnents with a single land certificate, which in format is
much simpler than the previous State Act. Second, it established that all land registration must take place
at offices of the Land Committee, thereby taking away land registration functions from municipal
government. Third, it set specific time limits for carrying out functions associated with land registration
with the goal of speeding up this process. In particular, requirements to include a survey in the certificate
were dropped. Fourth, it specifically required that offices of the Russian Land Committee issue land
certificates to individuals who had legal right to land shares in large farming enterprises (re-registered
state and collective farms), even when those shares had not been delineated on the ground.
10.   While greatly simplifying the process of land registration, Decree No. 1767 does not address the
procedures for adjudication of property rights and demarcation of those rights. While land surveys are
no longer required to issue land titles, they will certainly be necessary for the smooth functioning of
economic activity associated with land.



55                                  ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
RussIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM iiMPLEMENTATION SuppoRT (LARS) PROJECT
TRADIING MODULE
SCOPE
1.    Training under the LARIS Project will be conducted in two ways: foreign and in-country.
Foreign Training
2.    Foreign study and training will be designed to provide: (a) exposure to a variety of land
registration and cadastral models to Russian experts; (b) exposure to foreign experience for Russian
experts who will be responsible for implementation of the automated land registration system at the oblast
and rayon levels; and (c) training in the operation of digital mapping technology in foreign organizations
using such technology.
3.    Orientation Training in Registration Systems: This program will be geared to provide exposure
to Russian experts to a variety of foreign land registration systems. The topics to be covered include
management of land registries, procedures for adjudication and dispute settlement, mapping technologies
and the interaction between mapping agencies and the land registry, data base management, public access
to informatioti and methods of information dispersal, the legislative basis underpinning the activity of the
land re-gistry, zoning, land taxation, and procedures followed in land conveyancing, land mortgaging, and
valuation of land and other real property. Roughly five foreign models are to be included in this training
segment, with stays of one to two weeks in each country. Itineraries will be arranged following the
identification of participating countries, but it is anticipated that two to three separate trips will be
required.
4.    Registration Traning: This training program will be geared to operational staff of the central
and oblast project groups and representatives of the oblast and rayon registration groups. The training
will take place in a country selected from among those which participated in the Orientation Training in
Registration Systems. The topics to be covered will be similar to those of the orientation training but
with a greater focus on operational procedures and will be further elaborated following completion of the
orientation training. The purpose of the operational training will be to provide Russian staff with
necessary skills (in conjunction with training to be received in Russia) to begin implementation of the
automated land registration program. The training will be split into two tracks; (a) one for managers and
staff involved in the automated registration system, and (b) one for those rayons receiving equipment and
training under the supplemental registration sub-component. Training under track A will last two weeks
and include integration of digital mapping. Training under track B will last one week and focus on basic
registration procedures. A total of 100 people will take part under track A, broken up into 7 separate
trips of approximately 14 people each. A total of 150 people will take part in training under track B,
divided into 10 separate trips of 15 people each. It is anticipated that sub-groups would be broken out
to provide greater focus on technology or management for relevant participants.



56                                 ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
5.    Project Implementation Training: A special package of training will be provided to staff of
the Project Development Unit (PDU) to develop and enhance project management and implementation
skills through training in appropriate foreign settings. A total of 66 two-week study tours will be
provided to PDU staff over the life of the project.
6.    Training (Stazhirovka) in Digital Mapping Technology: This training will take place with
organizations using digital mapping technology, will be geared to those individuals responsible for starting
up and operating the digital mapping technology included in the project and will be designed to
supplement training provided by suppliers as part of equipment delivery contracts. The 40 participants
will be drawn from the central cadastral project group at RosNITs "Zemlya" and VISKhAGI.
In-Country Training
7.    In-country training will be conducted as a follow-on to the foreign training described above
through the project groups of RosNITs "Zemlya". The two main directions of such training will be
operation of the land registry and digital mapping technology. Such training will be organized and
conducted by those who participated in the foreign training, in conjunction with the expertise of
consultants included in the technical support module of this component. In addition, there will be a sub-
component of training aimed at project implementation skills.
8.    Digital Mapping Training: This training will be geared to those who will operate the equipment
at the six mapping enterprises and is expected to take place following the foreign training in digital
mapping technology described above. It will be designed in conjunction with delivery and installation
of equipment in Moscow during the first year of the project, and will be conducted at the central project
group for cadastre mapping and in classes at the six mapping enterprises. This training will be for an
average of two weeks and will cover a total of 375 people.
9.    Land Registration Training: Training courses of two weeks in operation of the land registration
system will be conducted by the central project group for registration of RosNITs "Zemlya" and the
associated oblast project groups commencing after completion of the foreign operational training described
above and continuing throughout the project. This training will be coordinated with startup of land
registration groups in the oblasts and rayons included in the project. This training will focus on operation
of the automated system, basic aspects of land registry management, procedures for land adjudication and
demarcation, dispute settlement, third party rights and notification, procedures to follow for land
mortgaging, conveyancing, and leasing, and others, and cover approximately 850 people.
10.   Project Implementation Training: A special package of training will be provided under the
auspices of the Project Development Unit (PDU) in skills necessary for successful project implementation.
These will include necessary reporting on financial/accounting and physical indicators, and procurement
and disbursement procedures of the World Bank. This training will be carried out during the first year
of the project by the foreign experts assigned to the PDU and will be targeted to staff responsible for
implementation at both the federal and oblast levels. Training for approximately 270 people is
anticipated.
11.   Seminar: The preparation and carrying out of training in registration procedures and digital
mapping will be supported by the participation of experts under the technical assistance component of the
project. These experts will provide training seminars in Moscow on the following topics: (i) land



57                                  ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
registry management and operation; (ii) approaches to land registration; (iii) approaches to dispute
settlement; (iv) use of computers and system design in land registration, and digital-based cadastral
production; (v) digital mapping technology; (vi) land and real estate valuation methods; (vii)
developmental control methods; (viii) practical uses of Geographic Information Systems (GIS); (ix) land
mortgaging; and (x) economic management of publicly held lands. These seminars will take place during
the stays of the technical experts and will follow on the foreign training, but will be aimed to cover a
larger number of staff. Those having taken part in the foreign study tours would be expected to
contribute to the in-country training seminars.
TIMNG
12.   Timing for the foreign training would be as follows: (a) Orientation Training in Registration
Systems: During the first six months of the LARIS loan's effectiveness; (b) Operational Training:
During the second six months of the project; (c) Training in Digital Mapping Technology: hmmediately
after selection of winning bids for mapping equipment and prior to equipment delivery and installation;
and (d) Project Implementation Training: Beginning in the second six months of the project and
continuing for four years.



58                                  ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 10
RUSSiAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARS) PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MODULE
OBJECTVES
1.    The objectives of technical assistance for the LARIS Project are to assist the Russian Land
Committee and its constituent agencies to develop an effective land registry system, successfully introduce
digital mapping and integrate this technclogy with land registration, and strengthen the capabilities of the
Russian Land Committee to carry out other land administration functions.
2.    Technical assistance for the LARIS Project will be based primarily on the concept of building
ongoing working relations with appropriate foreign counterpart organizations. Rather than placing
individuals for long, uninterrupted periods in Russia, this approach would make individuals available as
they are needed to interact with the Russian Land Committee in devising problem-solving strategies and
providing necessary expertise in the following .reas: (i) land registry management; (ii) legal aspects of
land registration; (iii) digital mapping technology; (iv) land and real estate evaluation; (v) developmental
and land use control; (vi) applications of a multipurpose cadastre; (vii) environmental monitoring; (viii)
land mortgaging; and (ix) economic management of state lands.
3.    In most of these areas, an appropriate "partner" organization will be identified.  Those
organizations will be expected to provide one to two individuals to work with the Russian Land
Committee. During the life of the project, those individuals will be expected to travel to Russia
periodically for average stays of one month. While in Russia, they will be expected to work directly with
counterparts in the Land Committee, provide expertise as requested, assist in project implementation as
appropriate, participate in arranging and conducting training seminars as described in the training module,
and work with the Land Committee to draft terms of reference for potential pilot projects in Russia in
their areas of expertise. While not in Russia, those individuals and their organizations should be prepared
to maintain a reasonable level of communication with the Land Committee and provide feedback and
advice as necessary. Furthermore, a limited amount of reverse travel from the Land Committee to the
"partner" is anticipated. The purpose of this reverse travel would not be training, as such, but would be
carried out to address ongoing program concerns. The length of such reverse travel would generally be
one week for one to three individuals.



59                                   ANNEx 4
Page 2 of 10
TIMING
4.    The approximate timing for each of the technical assistance specialists is summarized below.
Specialities                                   Project Year
1       2       3        4       5      Total
--------person-months--
Land Registry Management                5        5        5       4       2       21
Legal Aspects of Land Registration      3        3        2       1        1      10
Digital Mapping Technology              6        5        5       3        1      20
Land and Real Estate Evaluation                  2        2       1                5
Developmental and Land Use Control               2        1                        3
Applications of Multipurpose Cadastre            1        1       1                3
Environrmental Monitoring                        2        1                        3
Land Mortgaging                                  2        2                        4
Economic ManaRement of State Lands      1        2        2                        5
Total                                  15       24       21      10       4       74
5.    Each visit to Russia is expected to be for approximately one month, except for the Digital
Mapping Technology and Land Registry Management Specialists, for whom visits during the first three
years could be as long as three months.
TERMS OF REFERENCES
6.    Detailed terms of reference, which are subject to modifications during implementation, for
consultants supported by the technical assistance are developed below. The location of all assignments
is the Russian Land Committee in Moscow. All consultants will report to the Director of the PDU.
(1) LAND REGISTRY MANAGEMENT
Duration of Assigmnent: 5 years, periodic visits
Time of Initiation of Assigmnent: Month 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To assist the Russian Land Committee in the development and modification of policies
and procedures associated with land registration. Before the technical assistance begins,
the assigned individuals will develop an understanding of:



60                                   ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 10
(i)    The social environment within which the registration system is being developed,
especially the human resources available and the levels of technical and
professional skills;
(ii)   The economic envirownent and the involvement of donors;
(iii)   Current government policies with respect to land and land registration.
(b)    To assist the Russian Land Committee in the management and coordination of the project
registration groups set up at the rayon and oblast levels, and their coordination with other
agencies involved in the registration process including the adjustment of thw basic system
design to specific regions included in the project.
(c)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to develop model contracts of land use.
(d)    To assist the Russian Land Committee in its efforts to establish and manage a land
registration data base, including linkages with other databases outside the Land
Committee. Particular attention will be given to the systems standards for the automated
registration activity of the project and its successful integration with the digital mapping
output.
(e)    To advise the Russian LUnd Committee on overall management practices.
(f)    To advise the Russian Land Committee in developing appropriate organizational aspects
and personnel skills to carry out its land registration responsibilities.
(g)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to prepare proposals for pilot projects to test
particular aspects of land registry management.
(h)    To identify on-going training requirements and other functions as necessary to improve
the operation of Russia's land registration system.
Qualifications of Partn  Organization
The partner organization should be directly involved in land registry management, be capable of
providing a breadth of international experience in areas listed above, and be prepared to provide 1 to 2
individuals for interaction with the Russian Land Committee as indicated in the overall description for
technical assistance for this project.



61                                   ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 10
(2) LEGAL ASPECTS OF LAND REGisTRATioN
Duration of Assignment: 5 years, periodic visits
Tiue of InitlatioD of Assignment: Month 2 of LARIS implementation
Sope of Work
(a)    To provide assistance and advice to the Russian Land Committee in the drafting of
relevant legislation, decrees, regulations, and normative documents.
(b)    To advise the Russian Land Committee in the fAllowing aspects of land registry
management:
(i)    adjudication procedures and first registration;
(ii)   land conveyancing;
(iii)   protection of third party rights;
(iv)   notification procedures;
(v)    procedures for dispute settlement, including administrative systems and
establishment of specialized courts to adjudicate land disputes;
(vi)  rectification, indemnity, and judicial powers;
(vii)  other aspects as necessary.
(c)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to develop model contracts of land sale.
(d)    To provide international experience on the legal aspects of (i) land mortgaging; (ii) land
and real property taxation; and (iii) developmental control; and to liaise with consultants
providing technical assistance in these areas
(e)    To liaise with advisors on Land Registry Management and Digital Mapping Technology
on the following issues: (i) accuracy of information; (ii' copyright of information; and
(iii) security of information and protection of the data base.
(f)    To work with the Russian Land Committee in the preparation of proposals for pilot
projects dcsigned to test different legal approaches to land registration and land
administration.
(g)    To identify training requirements as necessary.
(h)    To provide assistance in other areas, as necessary, to improve the legal base of the
registration process.



62                                   ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 10
Qualifications of Participating Organization
The partner organization will be able to provide 1 to 2 individuals with appropriate legal training
and practical legal experience in the functioning of land registries and adjudication of land disputes. Prior
experience with Russian land legislation is highly desirable.
(3) DIGITAL MAPPIG T-ECNOLOGY
Duration of Assignment: 5 years, periodic visits
Time of Initiation of Assignment: Month 1 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To work with supplier representatives in the process of installation and start-up of map
production systems for the central project group for cadastral mapping and the six
regional mapping enterprises including:
(i)   assessing plans for operating systems prior to and during delivery and
installation,
(ii)   insuring that appropriate premises are allocated and prepared prior to equipment
delivery.
(b)    To document resource availability and review photograinmetric and mapping procedures
and resource requirements once the new technologgy is in operation to insure the
production of maps as planned.
(c)    To assist the Russian Land Committee in the preparation of specifications for the
production of digital mapping, and develop a digital mapping flowline for title mapping
at the necessary scales.
(d)    To ensure that data digitized from aerial photographs and existing line maps with field
survey data captured in digital form is capable of integration.
(e)    To assist in building a team within the Russian Land Committee expert in digital mapping
technology and in data base maintenance and quality control.
(f)    To liaise with consultants under Land Registry Management and representatives of the
Russian Land Committee to insure the effective integration of digital mapping with the
registration system.
(g)    To identify on-going training requirements as necessary and appropriate.
(h)    Other functions as necessary to ensure the smooth flow of digital map production as
called for in the project.



63                                  ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 10
Qualiffcations of Partiipating Organization
The partner organization will be directly involved in the practical use of digital mapping
technology and will be familiar with the equipment of leading world manufacturers. The partner
organization will provide 2 individuals with such experience and knowledge.
(4) LAND AND REAL EsTATE VALUATION
Duration of Assignment: 2.5 years; five 1-month visits
Time of Initiation of Assignment: Year 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To assess current Russian Government policy with respect to land valuation and real
property assessment.
(b)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on land valuation methodologies and real property
appraisal, including:
(i)   single property and mass appraisal techniques,
(ii)   role of market signals in property appraisal,
(iii)  frequency of valuation adjustments,
(iv)   valuation of different types of land,
(v)   specification of proposed models to carry out this work.
(c)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on data management for real property assessment.
(d)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on quality assurance, notification and appeals,
and public access to information with respect to property assessment.
(e)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on methods and approaches to real property
insurance.
(f)    To work with the Russian Land Committee in preparing proposals for pilot projects
designed to test different approaches to land and property assessment, property insurance,
and land and real estate taxation.
Qualifications of Partner Organization
The partner organization will have expertise in the area of land and real estate assessment and
be able to provide 1 individual familiar with economic theory and the use of computer systems. Prior
experience with property assessment in Eastern Europe or the countries of the former USSR is desirable.



64                                  ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 10
(5) ZoNING AND LAND UsE MANAGEmENT
Duration of Assignment: 2 years; three 1-month visits
TIme of Initiation of Assignment: Year 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on legal aspects of zoning with particular
reference to:
(i)    The scope and nature of such management including ecological and
environmental considerations,
(ii)   The procedures and sanctions employed f-r enforcing these regulations.
(b)   To provide the Russian Land Committee with inte.LUional experience in the area of land
use planning, including the role of the private sector in designing and implementing land
use planning strategies.
(c)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on the possible role of local, regional and federal
government in zoning and land use management, including: (i) land use planning; (ii)
public input into the land use planning process; (iii) practical enforcement mechanisms;
(iv) change of land use; and (v) appeals procedures.
(d)   To review existing institutional and organizational issues related to zoning and land use
management and make recommendations as appropriate.
(e)    To liaise with the Land Registration Legal Expert to review existing legislation regarding
zoning and land use management and to propose revisions and new approaches in the
legal basis in this area.
(f)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to develop pilot project proposals in the
above areas.
(g)   To identify training requirements as necessary.
Required Qualfications
An individual with appropriate professional qualification and experience with practical
implementation of zoning and land use management strategies.



65                                  ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 10
(6) APnLIcATioNs OF A MULTIPURPOSE CADASTRE
Duration of Assignment: 2 years; three 1-month visits
Time of Initiation of Assigmnent: Year 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To provide background to the Russian Land Committee on the current and prospective
uses and rationale of a multi-purpose cadastre in other countries, including an indication
of the following:
(i)    Clients for such systems, including local and regional governments;
(ii)   Cost/benefit analyses of applications of this approach;
(iii)  the record of cost recovery associated with this approach.
(b)    To inform the Russiaa Land Committee of current and prospective technical approaches
to the establishment and maintenance of a multi-purpose cadastre.
(c)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to develop proposals for a pilot project testing
the application of a multi-purpose cadastre.
Qualifications of Partner Organization
The partner organization will be involved in the practical use of a multi-purpose cadastre, be
expert in the requisite technology, and provide 1 individual experienced in this area.
(7) ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Duration of Assignment: 2 years; three 1-month visits
Time of Initiation of Assignment: Year 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To advise the Russian Land Committee in approaches and techniques used for
environmental monitoring of land, including the following:
(i)    The use of modern technology, in particular the use of rer,otely sensed imagery;
(ii)   monitoring of urban versus rural environments;
(iii)  determination of environmental aspects to be monitored.
(b)    To provide information on enforcement procedures, in particular the role of local,
regional, and national governments.



66                                   ANEX 4
Page 9 of 10
(c)    To advise the Russian Land Conmmittee on the establishment and maintenance of an
environmental data base and integration of this information into the broader functions of
land management.
(d)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on the use of satellite imagery for resource
management in remote areas of the country.
(e)    To work with the Russian Land Committee to develop pilot projects which would test the
above points.
Quaflifcations of Partner Organization
The partner organization will have a strong background in environmental monitoring, with
knowledge of procedures and practices in a variety of countries. The partner organization must also be
expert in the application of remote sensing for environmental monitoring and land resource management.
(8) LAND MORTGAGING
Duration of Assignment: 2 years, four 1-month visits
Time of Initiation of Assgnment: Year 2 of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To assess current laws, decrees, and other relevant documents pertaining to land
mortgaging in Russia.
(b)    To assess the current banking structure and operational procedures used in loan allocation
with respect to a future well-functioning land mortgaging system.
(c)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on steps and approaches to improve the current
system of land mortgaging taking into full consideration the constraints identified under
(a) and (b) above.
(d)    To conduct seminars on land mortgaging in Russia for representatives from the federal,
oblast and rayon levels.
Required Qualifications
An individual with appropriate professional qualification and experience with practical functioning
of land mortgaging in a number of market economies. Familiarity with the experience of the countries
of the former Soviet Union and Eastem Europe is desirable.



67                                   ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 10
(9) PUBLIC LANDS ADMINISTRATION
Duration: 3 years, five 1-month visits
Time of Initiation of Assignment: Year I of LARIS implementation
Scope of Work
(a)    To assess current laws and regulations pertaning to the management and administration
of public lands held at both the federal and regional (oblast) levels.
(b)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on appropriate user fee policies with respect to
public lands.
(c)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on methods to protect public lands from
encroachment.
(d)    To assist the Russian Land Committee in development of a program to rationalize the
existing pattern of public land holdings through consolidation and privatization.
(e)    To advise the Russian Land Committee on methods to auction or otherwise sell-off State
lands available for privatization.
(f)    To work with the Russian Land Committee in developing pilot programs to test
alternative approaches to the topic areas enumerated above.
(g)    To conduct training seminars for staff of the Russian Land Committee at both the Federal
and oblast levels.
(h)    To identify other training needs of Russian Land Committee staff in the area of public
lands administration.
Required Qualificadons
An individual with professional training and work experience in the area of administration of
public lands, with specialization in the economic aspects of such management.



68                                   ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM LMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT AND COMPONENT COSTS
The detailed costs for individual project components and cost categories are sunmmarized in Annex
Tables 5.1 to 5.6 of this Annex. The base cost estimates were derived by the mission, in consultation
with SLC counterparts from surveys and preparation reports. All costs were expressed in US dollars.
The underlying assumptions are as follows:
(a)    Physical Contingencies     :      10 percent for civil works and equipment and
machinery (base costs) applied to all costs
expressed in US dollars, in line with established
Bank practice and experience with similar
projects worldwide.
(b)    Price Contingencies        :     2.8 percent per annum (compounded) for civil
works and equipment and machinery (base costs
+ physical contingencies) and 2.8 percent
(compounded) for operating cost, training and
technical assistance (base costs) were applied to
all costs expressed in US dollars according to
the average arnual price increases projected by
the World Bank between 1992 and 2002.
(c)   Import Duties               :      15 percent of the estimated CIF cost for the
equipment and machinery.   Import duties
continue to change and 15 percent is about an
average.    Furthermore, Government has
indicated its intention to re-examine the structure
of import duties in the near future.
(d)    VAT                        :     23 percent of the estimated CIF cost for the
imported equipment and machinery (not included
in the cost tables). Regulations governing the
levying of VAT on imports and how it might be
expensed against capital expenditure is under
review.



Annex Table 5.1: Derivation of Detailed Base Project Cost for the LARIS Project
(US$ thoud)
Bsse Project Cost Loal (t_oad US$)                                        Base Pojt Cost Foreign (ouad USS)
Sub compnet                                           1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999    Total                              1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999               Total
A. Land Rez,i'ration System
1. OvWlW                                                  0       0      0       0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0      0            0
2. DmokVwM acdinozy                                       0       0       0      0      0       0                                 261   50    7305   S927   4042   3349          266
3. trnpoeDut                                              39    871   1096    889    606    502        4003                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
4. Opcftb*gCogt                                           57    754   1643   2389   2812   3060       10715                         0      0       0      0      0       0           0
5. TraIig                                                  0      0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
6.ToclmcaAssltam                                           0      0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
Sub toa                                               96   1625   2739   3278   3418   3562        14718                      261   5803   7305   5927   4042   3349         26688
B. Land CAsdl Ma
1. CilWkatb                                             400    400    400        0      0       0      1200                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
2. Eq*medand        6qMa y                                 0      0       0      0      0       0         0                      1611   9771   8707   9014   1374   1374         31852
3. _apotDuay                                             242   1466   1306   1352    206    206        4778                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
4. OpcadftCAa                                            597   107    1709   I872   2033   2033        9331                         0      0       0      0      0       0           0
5. TrfaIn                                                 0       0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
6. Ttcnjd kAadltno                                         0      0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
Subtolat                                            1239   2952   3416   3224   2239   2239        15309                     1611   977   87    9014   1374   1374          3t852
C. nsitdondl DevelODment
1. CivilWe*a                                              0       0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
2. Eq gnmtand Maohimy                                      0      0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
3. biptDuty                                                0      0       0      0      0       0         0                         0      0       0      0      0       0           0
4. OpeatgCoan                                              0      0       0      0       0      0         0                         0      0       0      0      0       0           0
S. Tainng                                                 0       0       0      0      0       0         0                       115   1294    966      83     33      33        2523
6. TIA"       uAince                                       0      0       0      0      0       0         0                       150    521    638    480    175       25        1989
Sub toIl                                               0      0       0      0       0      0         0                       265   1815   1604    563    208       S8        4512
D. Proiect Development Unit
1. CVllWons                                               0       0      0       0      0       0         0                        0       0      0       0      0      0            0
2.EqupmM sad _ Macn                                        0      0       0      0      0       0         0                        54      a       8      8      8       9          96
3. hipatDuWy                                               a      1       I      1       I      1        14                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
4. Openng Coe                                             57     76      65     54      54     54       35S                         0      0      0       0      0       0           0
5. TainIg                                                 0       0       0      0      0       0         0                         0    128    12S    128    116       10         S10
6. TecaIMuAsotnc                                          0       0       0      0      0       0         0                       200   1100    900    500    500    250          3450    9
&b totd                                               65      77     66      55     55     SS        373                      254   1236   1036    637    624    261          4056
o kA



Annex Table 5.1: Derivation of Detailed Base Project Cost for the LARIS Project (contd.)
(US$&tMwan9
Bse Project Cost Lol (thousad US$)                               Base Project Cost Fo      n (tbousad US$)
Sub omponent                                  M1994 1995 I996 1997 1998 1999    Total                           1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999              Tota
tbo LARJShc
TotalCivilWorks                                   400   400   400      0      0     0     1,200                     0      a     0      0     0     0          0
Tolal Equipm t and Machinety                        0     0      0     0      0     0        0                    1927  15582  160   14950   S2   4732     58.6
Total mpot Duty                                   289  2337  2403  2243   114   710    S,79                         0     0      0     0      0     0          0
Total OperatingCost                               710  1917  3417  4315  4199  S147   20.404                        0     0      0     0      0     0          0
Total Traiing                                       0     0      0     0      0     0        0                     115  1422  1094   211   141    42        3.033
Totl Technicl Asaisbta                              0     0      0     0      0     0        0                    350  1621  158   90   675   275           5,49
Toal Base Cost                                   1,3"  4,5  6,220  6.557  5,713  ,8.57   30,0                    2.3"2 1.625 18,652 16.141  6.248  5.00    67,1
0O



Annex Table 5.2: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for the Land Registration System
(US$ thousd)
S c&#ala             low                    lDS                    196                   In97                   199s                   o9 Tal
_ Fo-          Fo-                    For-                   Fm-                   Fog-                             Fog-                 Fo- F
oat c#nt           Loald  c41   Loea    alp   Toa   Load    OP   Toa   Loa                 n   Totl  L1a    o         Tal  Loal   eta   Toal  food  eta Totl fJ            l o*-  r   Totl
I. Cii WorkI
BaS eeo                               0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0    0    O        0      0      0
1 "IcacIwIqcl  10.0%  10.0%           0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0    0    0        0      0      0
Pat c_c.WqacI       2.8%   2.8%       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0    0    0        0      0      0
Toul cua                              0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
?.Poimn n Mat*a,p,ar
Sbos coa                              0    261    261        0   SO0N   SS03        0   7305   7305       0   5927   S927        0   4042   4042        0  3349  3349      0  2688  268
Flbydusl cas oce  10.0%  10.0%        0      26     26       0    SS0    580        0    730    730       a    59      59        0    404    404        0   33s  335       0   2669   2669
PEttAcaliqacI       2.8%   2.8%       0       8      8       0    362    362        0    694    694       0    762    762        0    658    65S        o 0664  664        0   3148   3148
Tota cam                              0    295    295        0   6746   6746        0 873  s83            0  7M2    7282         0   S1OS   S1OS        0 4348  434        0 32505  3250S
1. D"mt D
BancCod& (1S.0%)                     39       0     39    S71        0    S71    1096      0   1096    189        0    889    606        0    606    502    0   502   4003        0   4003
Fbys*cuica akc    10.0%  10.0%        4       0      4      87       0     87    Il1       0    23o       89      0     89      61       0     61      So    0  50    400         0    400
Priccthe cac        2.S%   2.8%      1       0      1      54      0      54     104      0    104    114        0    114      99       0     99      1 0 0100    472            0    472
Total ceU                            44       0     44    1012       0   1012    1309      0   1309   1092        0   1092    766        a    766    652    0 652  4876           0   4676
4. Osetih,e Caot
Bes cott                             57       0     57     754       0    754    1643      0   1643   239         0   2389    2812       0   2812   3060    0  3060  10715        0  10715
physicaiclc 1_ aa      0.0%   0.0%    0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
?dc* corir,gsa       2.8    2.0%      2       0      2      43       0     43     142      0    142    279        0    279    416        0    416      512    0   S51   1433      0   1433
Tol ctds                             58       0     58    797        0    797    1785      0   1785   2668        0   2668   3228        0   3228  3612    0  3612  12148         0  12148
5. Traiinf
saw Cod$                              0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0    0      0      0      0       0
Vbyeicatcood oaca  0.0%   0.0%        0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0      0      0       0      0
Plic ccligcacka    2.8%   2.8%        0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
TOWa*costs                            0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0      a      0      0       0
6. TeclmcalAssisftanc
DMos cost                             0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
P?y.*ca caligc*cas  0.0%   0.0%       0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
Pnlc  awt*apackl    2.8%   2.8%       0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0        0      0       0
Ttalot                                0       0C                                    0      0       0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0      0      0       0      0
Total Base costa                     96    261    356   1,625  5,803  7.428   2,739  7.305 10.044   3.278  5,927  9.206   3.418  4.042  7.461   3.562 3,349 6,912  14.7*0 26.68S  41.406         4'
Toal Physical contingencies           4      26     30       67    50    667      110    730    840       89   S53    682       61    404    465       50  335  38S    400  2,669  3.069
Total Price confingencies             3       a      11     97    362    460      246    694    940    393    762   1,155       S15    65s  1.174    651   664 1,315  I.90   3,148  5.054       0 n
Total Project Costs                  102    295    397   1,809  6.746  ,S5Ss   3.094  8,730 111.24   3,760  7,282  11,042   3,994  5.30S  9,099   4.264 4,348 8.612 17,024 32.505 49.529



Annex Table 5.3: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for Land Cadastral Mapping
(uS$ toand)
N cku&d              1ow                   195                   1906                  197                                        19J9                To__
Foe-     w-Fr                        7ar                                          fee-                  Fa-                                       or
aw e_             dP LOlI  e*    Loal  e4p   rot    Lix          AP   rod   LOW    aga   Tota   Loca    4a   Ta   tal                 a   Tsro    LO   4p  row   Loca  rlg    ral
1. aw WeLr-
eamo"                               400      0    400    40        0    400    400        0    400              0      0       0      a      a       0    0    0   1200        0   120
Ph    _  dconIquu   1O .0XW   0.0S   40      0     40      40       0     40      40      0     40       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0    02         0    I0
PA    _de ="        2J%2.B%           2      0      12     25       0     25      so      0     38       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0       75      0      is
T.doce                               42      0  45        465       0    465    478       0    478              0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0   130         0   IS94
am *me                                0   lal 6 1   11      0   9775   9           0   0n      0Wa 0   0014   004             0   17    537         0  5574 U14        0  31052  31852
1IpmsaImIo5   luo           0.        0a    la 141          0    9n    9on         0            m 7      0    "     I     o1   0       7    137      0    57  in7       0   515   KIM
P*ois               2A%L.I    U       0     sO      A       0  410410              0    w      027       0   115    1158       0    224    226       0 2272             0 m142   514
Thasoe                                0   1t22   02         0  1555   11#58        0  1o0gs  504m        0  11074  t104        07X 5    16           0  174  1704       0  3879  5017
8amegi (uoul                        20       0    sO    14 6            14                    1       132 0          0352 206         0    206    206    0  206   47           0   47
P1  _0sAIa 8is1 .A10.05 l0.%         26      0     24    147        0    to      Ul3      0    1s1    135       0    135      21      0      21     2      0   21    470       0    47
sa                  2.0%   2.1        7      0      7      90      0      12    12        0    52      174      0    174      34      0      54     41    0  41    471         0    47
T_ebes                              273   o        27m   r0      oa 017 O4                0 136       16        0 665        260       0    210    26O    0 240   SW           0 5S
am cams 597                                  0    5       O7  7     0   1067   n9         0   170    I72        0   52M    203        0 o    3    2033    0  23   93n3t        0   got
P       _ cda5an1qa  usmA0.0 S        0      0      0       0       0      0       a      0      0       0      0      a       a       0      0       0    0    0 o            0       0
?eeeffjdamico    2.852.0%            17      0      17     G2      0      62    148       0     4      219      0    219     35       0    Sol 0    36     0  366   1112       0 152
tU eSel.                            61       0    614   1140        0   114    1057       0   107   2091        0   2091    2336       0   2534   240    0  2        1064       0   o04
Discos.                     0~~~          ~~      ~~ 0  0  0  0  0       0      0       0      0        0   0         0      0      0       0    0    0        0      0      0
YyakamI..U90smIssO.        OAS0E      a      0      0       0       0      a       0      0      0       0      0      0       0       0      0       0    0    0       0      0       0
Pulwaeakgmoim       2.%   2.8%        0      0      0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0      0      0
ToIAS.ads                             0      0      0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       a       0    a    0       0      0       0
DM acoda                             0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0      0       0
1'byeCa1cct5seIes0.0%   0.0%         0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      a       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0      0      0
Pdc eoaslqcci_s     2.802.8%          0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0      0       a
ToesIcam                              0      0      0       0      0       0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0      0       0 
Total Bas  Cwsta                  I.23   1.6t1  2,050   2.92  91.711  12.7    3.416  0.307 12.123   3.Zb4  9.014 12.239   2.239  1.374  3.614   2.239 1.574 3.614 15.309 31.652 47.162
Total Physical contingencies         64    161    225    187    977  i,64    171    071  1.041    135    901  1.037           21    137    158       21  137  1SO    590  3.105  3,713        0U
Total Prce con1tingencies            56     s0      86    WS8   610    789    310    827  1.137    392  1.550  1.550    335    224    550    407  272  610  1.659  3.142  4.00
Towtal     ! Prjct Cots1"    1,022  3.161   3.517  11.358 14.675   3,896 10.40S 04.50    3.752 50.074 14.826   2.S94  1.736  4.530   2.667 1.704 4.451 17.566 30,17  55.745



Annex Table 5.4: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for Institutional Development
(US$ houmand)_____
S cak o             199w                   199S                  1996                  1997                   1998                199                   Too
Po-     Pb r-                        Fo-                   Foc-                   P-                    Pw-                  Fot-                Pro-
.aw ccipcit        Lcal   eta   Leca    Oka  rTo        Lxa    eta   Toa   Loa    et*           st  Loca    olg   Tol  Local   .g    Total  Loa  Ci   TOWa  ral   O4lg   Touta
I. Cevil Works
Dmeu.ot                              0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      a       o      0      0       0    0    a        0       0      0
P?yacw.        aoIu 10.0%  10.0%      0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       a      0       0      0    a    0        0       0       0
PMc  oWupc          2.0%   2.8%       0      0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       0       0
ThaIcogs                              0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       a       o
2 Eamta andMh
Ban coots                            0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       0      0
rhyst ca1oazWmc1, 10.O%  10.0%       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0       0       0
PdC. cU2Ip*id       2.6%   2.8%      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      a      o       0    0    0        0       0       0
Tout coos                            0       0      0       a      0       0      o       0      0       0      0      0       a      a       a      o    0    0        0       o       a
Ban cama(15.0%)                              a      0       0      0       0      0       0      0 o                   a o         0      0      0      0    0       0      0       0  a
P4yshd caU.I.s uO.0%   10.0%         0       0      a              a O            0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0              a
Prk c cd            2.ck  2.85   215  0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0                   a       0      0       0      a        0        0        0      0
Tassc..ta                            a       a      a       o      a       0      0      0       0       a      a      a       a      a       0      0    0    0        0        0      0
4. ODeStiCod
Base Icd$      ls00%       00        0       a      a       a      a       0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0    0    0        0        0      a
P4       "Mhwe-   %     %                                               a      a                          O                                  o        o        o      a
Pldc.c ftmlqac.a    2.8%   2.8%      0       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0        0      0
Toaol cam                                    0      0       o      a       0      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0        0      0
S. Tmo
ass coum                             0    115    1IS        0   1294   1294       0    966    966        0     #      83       0     33      33      0    33   33       0    25232523
Thydcalq.ocI..s o.as   a.os          0       a      a       a      a       a      o       0      0       0      a      a       o      0       o      a    0    0        0        0      0
Pdrc caapcmclas    2.S%    2.8%      0       3      3       0     73      73      0      83     U              10     10       0      5       5      0    6    6        0      tot    l8t
Tel coua                             0    118    118        0   1367   1367       0   1049   1049        0     93     93       0      37     37      0   38   36        0    2704  2704
6  Techical A
Bas coam                             a    ISO    1S5        0    521    521       0    638    638        0    480    490       0    175    17S       0   25   25        0    1989   3989
hwy cal"Ogeck     n#0.0%    0.0%     0       o      a       o      a       o      0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0    0        0        0      0
Puto *ouataa    2.8%   2.8%          0       4      4       0     30      30      0      SS    S5        0     56     56       0     26      26            S S    5     0      17S    175
T*t coo                              0    154    154        0    551    SSI       0    693    693        0    536    536       0    201    201       0   30   30        0    2164   2164      t o
.f
ToWl B        cost                   0    26s    265        0   1.81S l.8SU   0  1.604  1.604            0    S63    S63       1    20      20S      0   SB   S8        0    4.512  4S12 
Toult Pbysc    costingencics         a       o      o       o       o      o       0      0      0       o      o      o       0      0       0      0    o    0        0        0      a        jx
TOal Pee coningenies                0       7      7       0    103    103       0    139    139        0     66     46       0     31      31      0    10   10       0      356    356
TowPIojC  costa                       0    272    2M2       0 o.mo  1.91S         0   1,74   1.742       0    629   6M        0    238    238       0   68   68        0   4.06   4.968



Annex Table 5.5: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for Land Project Development Unft
(US &and)
S auIX             199                  1995                196                 1S99                 1995               199                 Tota
Far-  Far-  Far-          Far-                Par-                 Far-               F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aw-  Fr
coo aipmwr       .aa   'k    tW    *e    row   L qp             rTw    La   a4l   row    oclp  al    Tol           ald  e4pl  row Ta)           rowu  lgT            rTw
,wadewak.u *.m1ua.0%   10.6%             0                    0                   0             a      0      0      0     0      0      0    0             * a   0 
1a.egs                                                                                                                                                    0      96
P1a         c    IS 2 .852%       0      2      2      0                                               0                 a            a    a    a             a      a
Tdiceoasa                                       a      0                             a 62a42  6                                                           0         012
nmftV.keI.inb    lo    54 04 10                               0             0     0      0      0      a 0    0            a      a      a    9    9 0            0f   ff
blkssotIqm e           2.02. 0%   0      s      0      0      I      1      0      I     t      0      0      I      0     0      0      0    0    0       a     10    to
Totae "                 9to              0      9       1     0 2           1     0      1      2 O           2      2     0      2      2 0        2    1   0          17
PhydcaIeaaIhmuj,0.0%0.0            S     0      0      a 0    0      9      0            0      0      0    10       0     0t   11       0    0t  11      0     t2 0    t2
amCNNd  5"                               0      0      1      0      I     7      0              I  1                      a     O   I  0  2  I    061    14      0   54
Dmeeus                            0 is   6.%    0  I   0    12    12        a    12    12       0    20   i2         0     a1   16       0    a0    0     0     50   53
H*Goihgo1amwa c.o0%   .0          0      0      0      a      0      0      0     0,    0       0      0      0      0     0      0      0    0    0      0       0      0
ToW w             2     20 9                0                 7 1   0   1   1        0      1   2         0      2     2      0             2       2     0 22    t7
4              . 0MgQ
cbeeel               o7                  0      0      0    1      16       05           0     54    a5  o4         54   1      1        012a 2           0  O         562
deaod        0" -0    200                              01616                09 0 0              0   5O    *0         0   5O    O0        0205             0    54O5034OO5OO 0
1pir"sa1siqm1n   S0.50            0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0       0     0      0      0    0    a      0       a      0
Pdsee1cIsa    2.8l    LOS          2     0      2 4           0      4      6     0 7           6      0 5           I     O      a      to    o 0  o     0s     2      52
Teles                    X~~~~~~~s  0  so     o      0    to       71     o    n       a      a    a       ea      a    62      a3    O   a3   sm         o 
Be~~~~~~~~~~ a *                              0    123   12t       0    US   US        0    128   i26       0    116   116      a   tO  tO        a     StO   S1
t _a tba                          0 2a O06% us a       016 12   0  a              73   9        0      0     0       0    5     574 0  O  O              0       5  3aO5
d                 2.0% 55  2.5#   0      0      0             7                   11            0     15 0 a                     1 0           2 I  0  1  1  0  1  1  0 2    2  a  52 0 t
Tooal              m                     a O           4    7O         75   6    90 1    95     0    14    143       0    9S   101      10  42   U        6      5S    419
Tta fe                             7   247   204      8    l0    tlOD      O2           no9     0   712   715        O    SW?   s8o      O  251  25D      0    3450  34.5
Pd      bF        2ESEa   29 ae   o             6      0    62    *2        0    7il    7       a    5S    se        0    74    74       0   45   45      O      sn     m 
T*l~ ~         ~         ~~~~~~ 2 0 6    206   0   11M2   1162     0   ns    978       a    55    SSG       O    S74   S?4      0  29S  295       0    s77   i7}   
ToW  Bm  co                       aS24   21   n7  1s2*6 t,I                     LOU,t02  5S  67    M1  5S   ON    670  S5  26B Su    m                         40S  4, 0 M
Told Pcal   _ofne e                i     s      4      *      i         a          I     I      a      I      t      6 o          t      0    a    I       t    se    11    
Tow  Ptice  on% ce                 2     7      9      4    70    7n              se     "     f 6    74   ft        8           o   101 10  49se    36          M     419X
TOW!*lP Cot               C      s 67  ss       4  s1  MWS I.             'n  Im    I.t9V      61   712   m    s        m       73t  OS  Sit #           410   4,08  4JIS0



Annex Table 5.6: Summary of Detailed Cost Estimates for the LARIS Project
(US husan)___
X cultad           1"0                    105                                         1                    18 r
1Fj-          Ar-                    Pw-                                         IP                   For-                 Aa i-
d3 tm              L4cal       fL l            T       Lp rodaL Ladal   alp   Toa   Loal nd   Totaw                   l  Loal arpw    f  Totrow     Z  l    Tt4 a rl  Loa   al    rTo
1. ohi Wmri
Dm.rl                             400      0    400    400        0    400    400       0    400       0      0      0       0    0       a             0      0   1200      0    1200
eP          _ Isa1.b n  u0.0%l 00s  40     0      40     40       0     40      40      0     40       0      0       0      0    0       0       0    0       0    120      0      120
Pdmeaftwoks    2.S%2 .L            12      0      12      25      0     25       o      0     sO       0                 0      0                 0    0       0     75      0       75
Tdal o                           452      0    452    465        0    465    478       0    478       0      0      0       0    0       0       0    0       0   1395      0     1395
am en"                              0a  19      1o2"       0  1552  1552         0  1600  1            0  14950  14          0  5425   5425       0  47     4732      0   S36   586
uda1ea               10.% 10.0%     0    193    193       0   1558    558        0   160   160         0   1495   1495       0   543    543       0   473    473      0   58s      586
?rh.ufqnalsa        2.8%  2.8X      0     59      59      0    973    97         0   1522   1522       0   1921   1921       0   684    884       0  93    n9         0   O6       6297
Taae ow                             0   2179   2179       0  t1113  18113        0  19144  19t44       0  103    183"6       0  6S8   6851        0  6143   6143      0  70797  73797
Dnoate (3iOq;                     21       0    289   2337        0   237   2403        0   203   2243'    0   2243    814    0    814    710    0    710   795              0      75
}lhkale _maa"   1.0% 10.0          29      0      29    234       0    234    240       0    240    224       0    224      n1     0      81     71    0      71   080       0      8o
Pd e_eo icgml.    2.8$ 2.8%         9      0       9     146      0    146    228       0    228    218       0    248    133    0    133    141    0    141    94S          0      945
Toil aia                          327      0    32    2717        0   271   20 2        0   287    255        0   2755   1028    0   1028    92         0 m2   10619         0   10619
4. 0M_  ost
smeeg                             710      0    710    1917       0   1917   3417       0   3417   4315       0   4315   489       0   4899   5147    0 5147  200            0  2404
Fk,1 _wk     mdm  0.0%  0.0I        0      0      0       0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0     0      0       0    0       0      0      0        0
PdFsc 09ilwa*e    2.    2.8%       20      0      20     109      0    109    29S       0    295    50        0    504    725    0    72S    928    0    928   2501          0    2581
T aI coo                          730      0    730   2025        0   2025   3713       0   3713   4819       0   4819   S624    0   5624   64          0   6074  22S        0   229
Deascoa                             0    115    115       0   1422  422          0   3094   1094       0    211   211        0   140    148       0   42       2      0 03         3033
PblaId     masia        0.0%  0.0%  0      0       0      0       0      0       0     0       0       0      0       0      0    0        0      0    0       0      0       0       0
?da                 2.iqs8a % 2.11285  0   3       3      0      a8      8t      0     95      95      0     2S      25      0    2Y      22      0    8        8      0    2       233
Taidcow                             0    tIe    i18        0 o1503  1503         0 1191 IS9            0    236    236       0   170    170       0    s       50      0   3266    3266
Daaeoa                              0    350    350        0  162    1621        0   53S   1538        0    910    90        067         675      0   275    27S      0   S439    S439
Phv*d _pgeaal     0.0%  0.0%        0      0       0       0      0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0    0       0       0            0              0 
him.c atqm          2U8S 2.O        0      10     t0      0      92     92       0    13    133        0    114    114       0 1t        30        0  50      SO      0    49       4
Totalcoe                            0    340    360        0   1713   1713       0   16t    167        0   1094   1094       0   775   775        0   325    325      0   5937    s93             _
Totl Ban cost                    1"    2392  3.79    4.64 18,25 23.29   6.2   18,62 24.873   6.557  16.141  22.6"   S.713 6.248  31,961   S.857 S.049 10.906 30.400 67.100   97.300           o
Total Physical contingencies   69    193    262    274  I.,SS   1,S32    2SO  1.602  1t.S2    224  1.495  1,719              1  543    624      71  473    544  1O0   5.864    6.863         0r
Total Price contigncies            41      72    113    280  1,146  1.426    561  1.749  2.311    792  2,060  2.,52    856 1,005  3.263   1.068  995  2.063  3.601  7,028   10,629
Toal PmojectCod s C                     2.7  4.166   5.207 21.30 206537   7.062 22.0a4 29,066   7.574 19.696 27.220   6,6S2 7,796 14,448   6.996 6518 13.514 35.0  0.o,  115,000



76                                  ANN_  6
Page 1 of 12
RussmAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARS) PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES AND ARRANGEMENTS
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
1.    The Project Development Unit (PDU) would undertake the procurement of goods which are
financed by the Loan through the services of a Procurement Agent. Except as specifically agreed,
procurement would follow the international competitive bidding and consultant selection procedures of
the World Bank. Consultants and consultant firns would be procu:-ed by the PDU following procedures
specified in the Bank's Guidelines "Use of Ccasultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency," (August 1981) and in the Loan Agreement.
2.    As noted in the Appraisal Report and elsewhee in this annex, the procurement would foliow
international competitive bidding as required by the GuIiX lines "Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (May 1992) and the Loan Agreement. The PDU would monitor the selection of
procurement procedures proposed by the selected Procurement Agent to ensure that they were in
accordance with the Loan Agreement, review the draft bidding documents and the evaluation reports with
award recommendations prepared by the organization, and transmit the bidding documents and evaluation
reports for Bank review, as required. For this purpose, the PDU would have experienced procurement
staff. For the first tranche of procurement, both a technical specialist and a procurement specialist will
work with the PDU and the designated Procurement Agent in bid document preparation. For the second
and subsequent tranches of procurement, a foreign procurement expert will be on staff at the PDU to
oversee this work.
Selection of Prourement Agents
3.    The Procurement Agent which would conduct the procurement would be selected by assessing
the capability, experience and fee leve,ls. The PDU would propose a shortlist of foreign and local firms
capable to satisfactorily procure under the LARIS project.
4.    The candidate Procurement Agents would be asked to describe their experience, the senior
personnel to be assigned with their language competence, and the proposed procurement management
procedure. These factors would be evaluated and combined with the fee schedule proposed. The
selection procedure and the final selection would be reviewed by the Bank. A proposed evaluation
method is described below.
5.    The organization's fees and reimbursable costs would be financed from the Loan. They are
expected to be disbursed in the form of direct payments from the Special Account.



77                                  ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
International Competitive Bidding
6.    The following steps would be taken to implement the international bidding requirements of the
Loan.  They are intended to be an explanatory guide to the Project Development Unit and the
Procurement Agents.
7.    General Procurement Notice. The Project Development Unit's procurement specialist would
prepare a General Procurement Notice for publication in "Business Development" of the United Nations.
This will describe in general terms the goods and works to be financed under the project, provide an
address for interested parties to indicate their wish to be advised when bid documents would be available,
and alert interested parties to subsequent announcements when the PDU has been fully established and
Procurement Agents selected. Ti.e General Procurement Notice should be forwarded to the Bank for
review and submission to "Business Development." The Bank is prepared to provide assistance in
preparing the General Procurement Notice, if requested by the PDU.
8.    Follow-up Procurement Notices would be placed in "Business Development". The Notices would
also be circulated to diplomatic commercial representatives in Moscow, and published in one or more
Russian newspapers. These would provide more detailed information, including the date the bid
documents would be available, their cost if any, and an address to which interested suppliers could refer.
The PDU will be assisted in this effort by a short-term procurement consultant in preparation of bid
documents for first tranche procurement.
9.    Procurement Scheduing. The grouping of the items to be procured into bid packages will be
prepared and the procurement scheduled by the PDU with the assistance of short-term consultant. The
schedule may be subsequently modified in consultation with the Procurement Agent when the Agent is
selected and when the PDU is fully staffed with long-term foreign consultants.
10.   Bid Document Preparation. The World Bank's standard Bidding Documents for Procurement
of Goods will be the principal document used. The technical specifications and any technical
requirements to be considered in bid evaluation would be the responsibility of the PDU, with such
assistance from a short-term technical consultant for preparation of the first tranche of such documents.
The Procurement Agent would be expected to review and comment on the technical specifications in order
to reflect any commercial considerations. On the other hand, the Agent would prepare the commercial
portion of the documentation with appropriate comment from the PDU and foreign procurement
consultants.
11.   Effective warranty service, regular maintenance with spare parts, and consumables peculiar to
the equipment are important. Therefore, the specifications are expected to require the suppliers to provide
such service for the duration of the project, where such requirements are appropriate to the goods being
purchased. This would apply especially to the computer related equipment, which would also provide for
technical upgrade to equipment and software following initial purchase.
12.   Advertising. As the procurement packaging and scheduling proceeds, updated notices of the
bidding opportunities would be advised through advertisement hi one or more Russian newspapers of wide
circulation, circulars to local commercial diplomatic representatives, and notices to those who had
responded to General or follow-up Procurement Notices.



78                                  ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
13.   Bid Receipt and Bid Opening. The bidding documents would specify the place and final time
for bid submission. The Agents would provide secure receptacles into which bidders could insert their
offers and be assured they would remain secure until bid opening. The Agents would open the bids at
a place and time specified in the bid documents, ensure a bid guarantee had been included, and read aloud
the total price of the offer. Any protests by the representatives present would be noted. The minutes of
bid opening would be prepared immediately by the organization. The bid opening would be open to
bidders or their representatives.
14.   Evaluation of Bids. The bids would be evaluated by the Procurement Agent in consultation with
the staff of the PDU. Where elements other than price were to be a factor in the award selection, these
would be taken into account as prescribed in the bidding documents. An evaluation report would be
prepared with specific recommendations for contract awards by the Agent. The report would be submitted
by the PDU for review and forwarding to the World Bank for its review as set out in the Loan
Agreement, or as subsequently agreed with the Bank.
15.   Contract Finalization. After the Bank had expressed no objection to the contract award where
this was required, the contract would be finalized. Contract effectiveness would require a letter of credit,
as the most probable method of payment, to be opened in favor of the supplier, and the delivery of the
performance securities from the supplier/contractor as required by the bidding documents.
16.   Monitoring Contract Execution. The Agent would monitor the delivery of the goods, arrange
for receipt and inspection at the place of delivery stipulated in the purchase contract, arrange customs
clearance, and manage any further local transportation or distribution that might be necessary for the
goods to reach the Purchasers. If third party inspection were necessary, this would be arranged by the
Agent by using the services of an independent agency established for this purpose or, where more
suitable, by an inspection by a representative of the Purchaser.
Procurement Other Than ICB
17.   Limited International Bidding. Where all eligible specialized suppliers are the only source or
in certain minor procurement where time or the amount of the purchase did not permit/warrant
international advertising, a limited number of eligible suppliers can be invited to submit bids. The same
bid documentation would be required, and identical bid opening, evaluation and contract finalizing
procedures would be tollowed as for ICB. Such procurement must be agreed with the Bank.
18.   International Shopping. For small amounts of purchases or where special circumstances,
generally of an urgent nature, arose, bids could be requested informally, but in writing, from at least
three sources from three different Bank member countries. An evaluation report should be prepared,
listing the offers received and explaining the reason for the choice, with an explanation of the reason for
using international shopping. Such procurement must be agreed with the Bank. An example of the
documentation that might be used is shown in Attachment I at the end of this Annex.
19.   Sole Source Procurement. In clearly justified instances, and with the concurrence of the PDU
and the World Bank, purchases could be made from a single source, normally the original equipment
supplier. Such procurement must be agreed with the Bank.



79                                  ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 12
Consultat Selection
20.   The selection of consultant firms for assignments would follow the competitive proposal selection
process outlined in the "Guidelines Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency," unless otherwise agreed.
RESPONSHULfITEs OF TH - OCUREMENT AGENT
21.   The Procurement Agent will be responsible for carrying out procurement for and on the behalf
of Purchasers in accordance with the procedures outlined in the World Bank Guidelines "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" and as specified in the Loan Agreement with the Borrower. The
term Procurement Agent is used to mean an organization with expert and experienced staff which has
wide knowledge of and experience with international commercial practices of goods generally similar to
the items to be procured. The Procurement Agent must be an established organization capable of
providing the various support services required to effectively conduct procurement activities.
22.   For procurement carried out according to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures,
the Procurement Agent, in collaboration with the appropriate technical staff of the SLC and in
consultation with the PDU, will:
(a)    Arrange advertising and provide information to interested suppliers;
(b)   Prepare the bidding documents in detail using the standard bidding documents issued by
the World Bank with appropriate adjustments to accommodate the individual procurement
packages. The technical specifications will be prepared by SLC staff, with the assistance
of consultants, as may be necessary to reflect project needs effectively and economically.
Submit the bidding documentation to the PDU for review by the World Bank;
(c)    Distribute/sell bidding documents to prospective bidders at a nominal price, any excess
beyond reproduction costs are to be credited to the PDU's account.
(d)   Provide clarifications in response to the queries of potential bidders;
(e)    Conduct the bid opening process and prepare Minutes of the Bid Opening;
(f)    Organize a bid evaluation committee which would include, among others, representatives
of the staff/consultants who prepared the technical specifications.  The award
recommendations will be based solely on the criteria conained in the bid documents.
Prepare an evaluation report with recommendations for awards. This report should
contain any comments members of the evaluation committee wish to make. Submit the
evaluation report for review by the PDU and/or the Bank as may be required.
(g)   Finalize the contract, follow-up and monitor deliveries, and, ensure payment in
accordance with the contract terms;
(h)   When required, arrange pre-shipment inspections, either by third party inspectors or
representatives of the Purchaser;



80                                  ANNE 6
Page 5 of 12
(i)    Receivc goods at the point of delivery, clear customs and arrange delivery, or confirm
that it is arranged by the Purchaser, to the proper destination.
23.   For non-ICB procurement, the Procurement Agent will, in consultation with the Purchaser and
the Project Development Unit, follow the appropriate procedures as specified in the Loan agreement and
in accordance with the Procurement guidelines to:
(a)    Solicit written quotations from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to secure
competitive prices and, evaluating the quotations and informing the Purchaser of the
results in writing;
(b)    Obtain quotations for approved sole-source procurement and negotiating the best possible
prices and terms; and
(c)    Place purchase orders and contracts with selected suppliers, including supervision of
delivery schedules.
The selected Procurement Agent will arrange to:
(a)    Collect and copy to the PDU documentation such as, inspection certificates, certificates
or origin/manufacturer, manufacturers/suppliers guarantees, bills of lading, beneficiary
insurance certificates, and invoices;
(b)   Maintain, in coordirnion with the PDU, accounting and financial management and
handle any warranty and insurance claims; and
(c)    Assist the PDU in the preparation of withdrawal applications from the loan funds with
the required supporting documentation and assist in ensuring payment to the suppliers.
The Procurement Agent will submit periodic progress reports to the PDU and the Purchaser.
EVALUATION PROCEDURE FOR PROCuREMEW AGENTS
24.   The proposed assignment comprises the following main tasks:(i) full range of procurement
services for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and other forms of international procurement; (ii)
contract administration, and (iii) reporting and distribution and monitoring activities. The proposal from
the candidate Procurement Agents should comprise the following:
(a)    descripton of the organization, including
(i)  its charter and most recent balance sheet,
(ii)  the volume of the firms international procurement for the past three years, and
(iii) the firm's experience in the purchase of items similar to the ones proposed,



81                                 ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 12
(b)   the experience of the staff the firm proposes to use for the assignment, including their
proficiency in English,
(c)   a description of how the firm proposes to conduct the assignment, i.e., the
organization and procedures to be followed, and
(d)   the proposed fees as discussed below.
25.   The remuneration will be on a commission basis. The comniission will be calculated as a
percentage of each contract placed on a slab basis, at the rate of exchange on the date of contract. The
fees should be quoted for the following range of contracts: up to US$100,000, from US$100,001 to
US$500,000, from US$500,001 to US$1,000,000, from US$1,000,001 to US$5,000,000, from
US$5,000,001 to US$10,000,000, over US$10,000,000. The financial proposal shlould be submitted in
a separate sealed envelope. The mix of contracts for the comparison of fee schedules should reflect the
anticipated mix in the procurement to be undertaken.
26.   The mix of contracts for the comparison of the fee schedules should reflect the anticipated mix
in the procurement to be undertaken. Proposals will be evaluated in a two-stage procedure which include
(a) an evaluation of the firm's experience and procurement plan, and, subsequently, (b) an evaluation of
the firm's fees. The firm's experience and procurement plan could be awarded a weight of 80% and the
fees 20%.
PROJFED CONrRACTS
27.   The anticipated procurement contracts cover the procurement during the years 1994 through 1999
(Annex Table 6.1). These represent the current assumptions as to packaging and scheduling. They also
reflect the possible bundling of those items which should be provided by a single supplier for reasons of
compatibility, service, and operational convenience as would be identified in the bidding documentation.



82                                          ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
Annex Table 6.1: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Goods for the LARIS Project
Year/           Nare Of             Toa Cot   Mdhod of                  Major Acivts Dawes
Componet        Pca4g              US$XlW 00 Prourmt  ssu Do's Bids Due Contat Award Comple
19%4
Land            Graphic complex          184      ICB         Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Rtgistration    PC's                     24      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Q1'95        Q2 '95
Laser Prnters              8      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Q1 '95      Q2 '95
Modem                      I      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2'95
LAN                      96       ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2 '95
Tachomtder                21      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Qi '95      Q2 '95
Cadastmal       Phototriang.:Raster     1113      ICB         Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Mapping        Hardcopy output          424      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Q1 '95       Q2 '95
Plotter                   85      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2 '95
Elerostatic Plotter      131      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2 '95
Dig. Photo. Wksn         170      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q2'95
PC's                     34       ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q2'95
GraphPlotter              3       ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q.2'95
LAN                       3       ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q2'95
Totalttions              23       ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q2'95
Project         Computes                  13       Is         Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q2'95
Admin.         FUi Server                 4       IS
LAN                       6        Is
Copy mai2ne              14      IS
Prine, Ink Jet             I       IS
Common          misc.                      7       IS
Items          Field Vehicles            42       IS        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95       Q2'95
OffikeEquip.             42       IS         Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q2'95
Total                                   2450
Land            Gapic complex           2019       ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q4 '95
Registation    PC's                     736      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95       Q4 '95
LAse Prints              301      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q4 '95
MatrixPrinters           139      ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Q1 '95      Q4 '95
Steamer                  183      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '9S      Q4'95
Modem                    96       ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q4 '95
LAN                     1609      ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q4'95
Tacheometer              523      ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q4'95
OPS Receiver             279      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q4'95
Rt OPSRec.               146      ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql'95       Q4'95
Caeastra        Aerial Survey           1590      ICB         Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Ql '95      Q4 '95
Mapping        OPS                     1757      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Q1 '95       Q4 '95
Fim Processing          443       ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql1'95      Q4'95
Total stations          535       ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q4 '9S
MapProd.Equip.          9209      ICB        Q3'94    Q4'94        Ql1'95      Q4'95
Office Equip.            139      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q4 '95
Common          Misc.                      7       IS
items          Field Vehicles           767      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4 '94      Q1 '95       Q4 '95
OfSce Equip.            1694      ICB        Q3 '94    Q4'94       Ql '95      Q4 '95
Total                                  22174



83                                           ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 12
Annex Table 6.1: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Goods for the LARIS
Project (contd.)
Yor /           Nature of            Toal Cost   Mhod of                  MajorAcotivites Datos
Component       Package             US$ Xia 000  Pzvcuaazwvet Jw.Doc's Rid,Due ChafrdAward Compictiao
Land             Graphic complex          16S2      ICB        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Q1 '96       Q4'96
Registation    PC's                       923      ICa         Q3 '95    Q4 '95      Ql '96       Q4 '96
Lawr Printers            377       ICB        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Ql '96      Q4 '96
MatrixPrinters           206       ICa        Q3'95    Q4'95         Ql '96      Q4'96
Sreamer                  264       ICB        Q3 '95    Q4 l95       Ql '96      Q4 '96
Modem                    133       ICB        (   '    Q4'9S         Ql '96       Q4'96
LAN                     2089       ICB        Q3'95    Q4 '9S        Q1 '96       Q4 '96
Tacheontder              742       ICB        Q3'95    Q4 '9S        Ql '96       Q4'96
GPS Reever               137       ICB        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Ql '96       Q4 '96
Ret GPS Rec.             234        IS        Q3'95    Q4'95         Ql '96       Q4'96
Cadastol         GPS                      1036      ICa         Q3 '95    Q4 '95      Ql '96       Q4 '96
Mappg          TOW stations              528       ICa        Q3 '95    Q4'95        Ql '96      Q4 '96
Map Prod. Equip.        9076       ICB        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Ql '96       Q4 '96
Offie Equip.             137        IS        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Ql '96       Q4 '96
Common           misc.                      7        IS
Items          Field Vehkcos             907       IC8        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Ql '96      Q4 '96
Office Equip.           2371       Ica        Q3 '95    Q4 '95       Qi '96      Q4 '96
Totol                                   20819
1222
Land             Graphic complex          982       ICB        Q3 '9      Q4 '96      Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Registation    PC's                       659      ICE         Q3 '96    Q4'96       Ql '97       Q4 '97.
Lasf Ptiiters            259       ICB        Q3'96    Q4'96         Qi '97      Q4'97.
Matrix Printes           135       ICa        Q3 '96    Q4'96        Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Streamr                  186       ICE        Q3 '96    Q4'96        Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Modem                     9S       ICB        Q3'96    Q4'96         Ql '97      Q4 '97.
LAN                     1568       ICE        Q3'96    Q4 '96        Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Tadcomneer               709       ICB        Q3'96    Q4'96         Ql '97      Q4 '97.
GPS Reeiver               68       ICB        Q3'96    Q4'96         Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Rent GPS Rec.            230       ICB        Q3 '96    Q4 '96       Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Cadadtml         GPS                      1019      ICB        Q3'96    Q4 '96        Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Mappmg         Total  touns              519       ICB        Q3 '96    Q4'96        Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Map Prod. Equip.        8921       ICB        Q3 '96    Q4 '96       Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Commnr a         MIsc.                      7        IS
tems           Fidd Vehicles             878       ICa        Q3 '96    Q4 '96       Ql '97      Q4 '97.
Office Equip.           1763       ICB        Q3 '96    Q4 '96       Ql '97      Q4'97.
Total                                    17997



84                                         A            6
Page 9 of 12
Annex Table 6.1: Proposed Procurement Contracts for Goods for the LARIS
Project (contd.)
Yar /           Natuaw of          rw CM    Me"d of                    MkJ*r A     tia Dat
COmPo   t                         US$XIO    Pcuwwmut laweo'  Bidf DuDw  Contact Award Compigon
1998
Land            Gphic complcx            378      ICD        Q3'97    Q4'97        Q1 '98      Q3'98
Registation    PC's                     418      ICB        Q3'97    Q4'97        Q1 '98      Q3'98
Uaser ntPrs             164      ICB        Q3 97    Q4 97        Q1'98       Q3'98
lzdxPrlatew              99      ICR        Q3'97    Q4'97        Ql'98       Q3'98
Sttauer                 126      ICa        Q3 '97    Q4'97       Ql '98      Q3'98
Modem                    64      ICR        Q3'97    Q4'97        Q1'98       Q3'98
LAN                     959      ICB        Q3 '97    Q4 '97      QI '98      Q3 '98
Tacheomdkr              398      ICR        Q3'97    Q4 '97       Ql '98      Q3 '98
Put OPS Roe.            133       IS        Q3'97    Q4'97        Ql '98      Q3 '98
Common          mmsc.                      7       Is
items          Field Veaxis            265       IS         Q3 '97    Q4 '97     Ql '98      Q3 '98
Ofke Eq*I.             1144      ICB        Q3 '97    Q4 '97      Ql '98      Q3 '98
Total                                   4155
Land            Grapkhlctompla           323      ICa        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
Registiation    PC's                    339      ICa        Q3 '98    Q4 '98      Ql'99       Q3'99
LaSerPrintas            140      ICa        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
MmtldxPnhers             97      ICB        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
Stramr                  108      ICB        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
Modem                    SS      ICB        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
LAN                     697      IC8        Q3'98    Q4'98        Qi'99       Q3'99
Tacheomutr              IS6      ICB        Q3 '98    Q4 '98      QI '99      Q3 '99
Rat aPS Roe.             S2       IS        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3'99
Common          Misc.                      6       Is
Items           Ldd Vehdee             104       ES        Q3'98    Q4'98        Ql'99       Q3 99
OfficeEquip.            887      ICR        Q3'98    Q4'9S        Ql'99       Q3'99
Total                                   2963
Project TOWal
ICE                                    69800
Is                                      1000
Total                                  70800



85                                  ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 12
Attachment 1
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR IrRTIONAL SHOPPING (LS)
Govemment of
Ministry of
Department of
Date
INVITATION TO QUOTE
To:
Gendemen:
Regarding:
1.    You are invited to submit your price quotation (s) in a profonna invoice format for the supply
of the following items:
vii)
(iii)
2.    Information on technical specifications and required quantities is contained in Attachment 1.1.
3.    The Govemment of             has (applied for/received) a loan from the International Bank
for Reconstuction and Development in various curencies and intends to apply the proceeds of this loan
to eligible payments under the contracts for which this invitation for quotation is issued.
4.    You may quote for any item under this invitation. Each item shall be evaluated and contract
awarded separately.
5.    Your quotations(s) in the required format should be addressed to:



86                                  ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 12
Telephone:
Fax:
6.    The proforma invoice, in duplicate and in English language, should be accompanies by adequate
technical documentation and catalogue (s) and other printed material or pertinent information (in English
language) for each item quoted, including names and addresses of firms providing service facilities in
7.    The deadline for receipt of your quotation is
8.    Quotation by Telex or Fax are acceptable.
9.    Other Conditions of Supply are as follows:
(i)    PRICES should be quoted in
Quotations in other currencies are acceptable but they will be evaluated after converting
them into            at the exchange rate prevailing at the Central Bank of
_ on the date of evaluation.
(ii)   PAYMENT for your invoice will be made 100% against delivery documents, through an
Irrevocable and Confirmed L/C, opened by (name of the Bank in Purchase's country) in
favor of the supplier's bank.
(iii)   DELIVERY: Prices should be quoted for delivery CIF _     port for imported goods
and ex-factory for domestically supplied goods or CIP       , according to
INCOTERMS 1990.
(iv)   DELIVERY SCHEDULE: _ _ months/not exceeding              months from L/C
confirmation.
(v)    WARRANTY: Goods offered should be covered by Manufacturer's warranty for at least
12 months from the date of delivery to Purchase. Please specify warranty period and
terms in detail.
(iv    ORIGIN: Goods offered should have their origin from World Bank member wountries
and you will be required to furnish a certificate of origin for each item for which you
quote.
(vii)  VALIDITY: Your quotation should be valid for a period of 45 days from the date of
your quotation.
10.   Please confirm by fax or telex the receipt of this invitation and whether or not you will submit
the price quotations.
Sincerely,



87                                    ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 12
Attachment 1.1
TECHNICAL REOUREMENT-S
Project Name:
Name of Item:
Quantity:
TECHNICAL DETAILS:
1.    General Descriptions
2.    Technical Specifications
3.    Accessories and Attachments
4.    Tools or Other Requir:d Items
5.    Maintenance Reqtirement
6.    Spare Parts Required
7.    Manuals
8.    Required Performance
9.    Warranty Specifications



88                                  ANNEX 7
Page I of 4
RussIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LAWS) PROJECT
ACCOUNTING AND FNANCIAL REPORTING PROCEDURES
ACCOUNING
1.    The accounts for the project include expenditures financed directly by the World Bank and
expenditures financed by the government agencies. The Project Development Unit (.DDU) would have
an aacounting and control system capable of reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions.
'This system must consist of two ledgers; one for US$ receipts and expenditures and another for local
cirrenoy Government appropriations and expenditures and must be operational when project expenditures
begin, capturing all transactions related to the project on a monthly basis.
2.    Afl disbursements from the IBRD loan must be recorded as receipts in the US$ ledger, on the
day diat the disbursement is made. Any government budget appropriations must be recorded as receipts
for the month that they relate to, in the local currency ledger, and may not exceed the amount recorded
under expena'itures included in the Project Component Cost Schedule for Government-financed
expenditures. Project expenditures should be recorded as incurred following the same method used in
capturing receipt's.
3.    The two monthly ledgers would be prepared by the PDU, no later than ten business days after
the end of the moni'h. The PDU will be responsible for translating the local currency ledger to US$
equivalents using an exchange rate based on a formula to be agreed upon between the World Bank and
the borrower prior to conmnencement of disbursement.
4.    The components would be consolidated in US$ equivalents and filed to be used for reporting
purposes at the end of the quarter. As statements of expenditure (SOEs) and a Special Account (SA) will
be used in this project, the PDU would be requested to prepare and main, on a monthly basis: (a)
a schedule of SOE expenditLares and amounts, and (b) a sumnmary of the SA account activity and
reconciliation with the SA balai'xce in the commercial bank account and the project account.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
5.    The World Bank requires the financial performance and status of a project and borrower to be
monitored regularly during implementation, either during the period of loan disbursement or throughout
the life of the loan. As a result, the PLVU would provide quarterly financial reports to the World Bank
throughout the monitoring period.
6.    The PDU would provide quarterly and annual accounts for the project and reporing on the cash
receipts and expenditures related to each comntonent and the overall financial performance of the project.
The accounts for the project would not only infelude expenditures directly financed by the World Bank,
but also the expenditures financed by the government agencies. These reports would reflect actual
component activity versus planned expenditure fol- the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date and



89                                 ANNI  7
Page 2 of 4
project inception-to-date. The format and individual classification of receipts and expenditures was agreed
upon between the Russian Government and the World Bank during negotiations (Attachments 1 and 2).
7.    The quarterly reports will be summarized in a Consolidated Statement of Proje^t Receipts and
Expenditures prepared using the US$ combined amounts. The consolidated report woudd be rolled up
from each sub-component, prepared using the US$ combined amounts (the summation of the US$ receipts
and expenditures, and the local currency receipts and expenditures translated to US$ equivalents.)



90                                  ANNE 7
Page 3 of 4
Attachment I
LARS
SA.TMENT OF PROJECT REcEipTs AND EXPENDITURES
DRAFT LLsT OF RE RTS
1.    USD) Combined (Foreign & USDEq)
Total Project
1.1      Land Cadastre Mapping
1.2      Land Registration Program
1.3      Institutional Development
1.4      Project Development Unit
2.    USD (Foreign Payments)
Total Project
2.1      Land Cadastre Mapping
2.2      Land Registration Program
2.3      Institutional Development
2.4      Project Development Unit
3.    USD Equivalents (of RR)
Total Project
3.1      Land Cadastre Mapping
3.2      Land Registraton Program
3.3      Institutional Development
3.4      Project Development Unit
4.    Russian Roubles (RR)
Total Project
4.1       Land Cadastre Mapping
4.2      Land Registration Program
4.3      Institutional Development
4.4      Project Development Unit



LARIS
Sample Statement of Project Receipts and Expenditure for the Total Project
(USD Combined
Reporting Categories
For the Year Ended December 31. 1994
Component
Land                Land                              Project
Cadastre            Registration   Institutional      Development
Mapping             Programn     Development          Unit                Total
RECEI7rS
IBRD loans
Government Budget Appropriattions
Total Rew.eipts
Civil Works
Equipment and Machinery
Import Duties
Operating Costs
Training
Technical Assistance
Total Expenditures
EXCESS (DEFCIENCY) OF RECEPTS 
OVER  NDIDTE                                                                              '                              1 



92                                   ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM 1PLEMENTATION SuPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
LEGAL STATUS OF PARTICIPATING AGENCIES
The following is a chronology of official documents creating and defining the Russian Land
Conunittee. The organizational structure of the Russian Land Committee at the Federal, regional (oblast,
kray and republic) and rayon levels is provided in Annex Figures 8.1 and 8.2.
1 .    Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the iRSFSR. No. 466 of October 25. 1990, "On
Questions of the State Committee of the RSFSR for Land Reform." Establishes the Russian Land
Committee, lays out its functions, structure, financing and interaction with other governmeint
bodies.
2.    Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the RSFSR. No. 30 of January 128. 1991, "On the
Republic Program to hIplement Land Reform on the Territory of the RFFSR", called for creation
of a scientific support center for land reform attached to the Russian Land Committee.
3.    Ordinance (Prikazl of the State Committee of the RSFSR for Land Reform. No. 20. May 21.
1991, "On Creation of the Russian Center for Scientific Support to Land Reform (RosNITs
'Zemlya')." In accordance with Resolution No. 3C of January 18, 1991, establishd the mandate
of RosNITs "Zemlya" to create and develop an automated land information system (LIS) in
support of land reform and monitoring of lands.
4.    Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the RSFSR. No. 320 of June 11. 1991, "On Ratifying
the Basic Principles of the State Committee of the RSFSR for Land Reform and Its Local
Organs." Lays out the status, functions, responsibilities and structure of the State land
Committee in greater detail, and elaborates the rights and functions of land committee offices at
the oblast and rayon leve's.
5.    Resolution of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR. No. 1617-1 of July 30. 1991,
"On Inaroducing Changes in the List of Republican Ministries and State Committees of the
RSFSR." Changed the official name of the Committee to "State Committee of the RSFSR for
Land Reform and Support to Peasant (Family) Farms".
6.    Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation. No. 162 of March 16. 1992, "On
Questions of the Committee for Land Reform and Land Resources of the Government of the
Russian Federation." Recognizes basic changes in the Committee following the breakup of the
USSR, including yet another namne change. Invites more detail documentation from the
Committee itself on its new roles.
7.    Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation. No. 346 of May 26. 1992, "On
Ratifying the Basic Principles of the Committee for Land Reform and Land Resources of the



93                                   ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
Government of the Russian Federation. Provided a detailed revision of information in Decree
No. 320 of June 11, 1991, above.
8.    Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation. No. 91 of February 2. 1993, "On
Ratifying the Basic Principles of the Committee of the Russian Federation for Land Resources
and Land Management." Yet another name change and redefinition for functions and
responsibilities. Two significant changes are greater orientation toward technical aspects of land
management and significant decrease in the autonomy of land committees at the oblast and rayon
levels.
9.    Resolution oy the Government of the Russian Federation. No. 303 of April 12. 1993, "On
Additional M!easures to Stabilize Agro-Industrial Production." Gave the Russian Land Committee
the legal right to the use of state property at the federal, oblast and rayon levels.
10.   Ordinance (Prikaz of the Committee of the Russian Federation for Land Resources and Land
Manaeement. No. 27. April 21. 1994. "On the LARIS Project". Established a coordinating
commission, for the LARIS Project and any subsequent IBRD projects, headed by the Chairman
of the Russian Land Committee with representation from the Min;stry of Finance. Appointed the
Director of RosNITs "Zemlya" as responsible for preparation and implementation of the LARIS
Project and created a Project Development Unit within RosNITs "Zemlya". Also calls for
completion of plans for staffing and organization of the Cental and Oblast Project Groups for
the LARIS Project.



Annex Figure 8.1: Place of the Russian Land Committee in the Structure of the Russian Govemment
ci te GovuNnme  of g thRussia Pedeuatlo
Gdwmmend cbt Rusin Febation
mm"isiwy ofpdc,iture                                            Russian Federation Land
andW ood              F                                           omiee
LWW  ~    Co"ilu         RosMWRsN                       Russian         souit         Altkd        Sftck Emt%      Pd-Voba        ~               U 
conwraomd  canpft    Ro"         2~Zamly   (La  d Isitt orth        Russia       k*tftut to     nsftitut tott*              T   AC S              mabMf
therpubizos      Center       ze p          Rein ater)    MoitrI Of         isiuet        Monitorth      Monitor the    Moio l the |                     fOrflUIU bII_ o 
brays. citissis    1t30           100            150 cdetad                  Montrt          ndand p       Mnd i                         Center for          I
auton oMou                                                   Ecosystems      landand       Ecse           Ecosytm        Ectm   Ie I                           30D      I
hi  asou                                                        RosZ          Ecosyste        AtaZ        Ctne"mt          Vo%" IIw=b
and the a"e of                                                 MM             YU(harnauO                   (fconeh)   I S2,snatc
Mome owd                                                         15O    Q_0nod                 60             so   11
l~~~~~~~~~~oe institutes" and|d 
and mn C   t                                                                      g nt
inesum in                    | Xrepubl      ys |                                                                                                               V115OA
1  15300                      e r an_)        I
I        I           1     ~~~~~~9600   1
1Q
Nwrt
Note: Numbeesin bassrefer to appro ae stff numbers.                                                                                                                           ro



Annex Figure 8.2: Organization of the Russian Committee for Land Resources and Land Management (Russian Land Committee)
FbVADW* CM"f                D8PCWf8                  DqMCorka                  D*cRO"M
ChabnwA                   ChakMan                  ChanCMM                   Chaknmm
I r"_   I 11I   -                                                                                                          I
O@p      F_I                                            F-           o             edS
AdMbWJOM        MI~bauonof AdMfttan                 mMbyd.   AdMrMflt      mi,Io snai
ftr  ofspow    of Seftft      aw"oll4.p*W-  of @IEwwMent  for Nd Use  of     ealw       gugtta    OfgW4       LOWt     AaMktW,dM
LOWdPM"                    Admh I ll    Amg tOd                Om ee LaV    G&MnM*eM    ofLd and    Ithd Ri         Depedmew O8f 11
wo TV&"  ~  ~      onnt    fo ad use      bon      Cbaodtr     Land     8an9b"" ee.l    6 8emoyee   25mp eeoy.
DepAwdd~~~~~~~~~~~eebetfDeebntfo
of Uend                    Om                                       LCand& cb    nd 6Otnt
pm1                                                                                                                              a
(4)  suppwt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(4)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



96                                  ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 8
RUssIAN FEDERATIoN
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LAIS) PROJECT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT UNIT AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Organization Responsible for Implementing the Project
1.    The executing agency responsible for implementing the LARIS Project is the Russian Committee
on Land Resources and Land Management (SLC). A Project Development Unit (PDU) would coordinate
day to day work related to implementation, budgeting, procurement, disbursement, audit, reporting,
monitoring and would work with Bank supervision missions on evaluation of projlct benefits. The
management of the LARIS Project would report to the Chairman, Russian Land Committee, or his
designate. The Chairman would be advised by a Project Coordination Conmnittee.
Project Coordination Committee
2.    The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be chaired by the Chairman, Ru3sian Land
Committee. Other members of the PCC would include a representative each from thb Ministry of
Finance and the Government department authorized to coordinate World Bank projects in Russia. This
Committee will assist and advise the SLC Chairman to coordinate preparation and implementation of land-
related projects; monitor progress of the LARIS Project; and establish priorities for the preparation of
projects designed to promote land reform in Russia.
PDU ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
PDU Management
3.    The Russian Land Committee is expected to carry out the project implementation functions
through a Project Development Unit (Annex Figure 9.1) which would be physically located in the Land
Reform Center (RosNITs 'Zemlya"). Thie PDU would be headed by a Director (Chief Executive Officer)
appointed by the Chairman, Russian Land Committee, who would be empowered to appoint staff and
consultants. The PDU operations would be divided into two departments: Project Implementation
Department (PID) and Project Preparation Department (PPD). Each of these aepartments would be
headed by a Deputy Director whose selection and appointment would be the responsibility of the
Chairman, Russian Land Committee.
4.    Under the policy guidance of the Chairman, Russian Land Comnittee, and under the leadership
of the Director of the Land Reform Center (RosNITs "Zemlya"), the PDU Director would be responsible
for overall day-to-day decisions regarding PDU functions. The two department deputy directors would
be responsible for day-to-day decisions on matters related to the functions of their departments, subject
to concurrence of the PDU Director on critical issues.



97                                  ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 8
Project Implementation Department (PID)
5.    The PID's responsibility would be to assure timely and efficient implementation of the three
operational compoiients of the LARIS Project: (a) Land Registration, (b) Cadastre Mapping, and (c)
Institutional Development. Heads of the two central project groups (one for registration and one for
rzdastre mapping) plus the Head, Institutional Development component, would report to the Deputy
Director, PID. The Accountant and the Procurement Officer would also report to the Deputy Director,
PID.
Project Preparation Department (PPD)
6.    The PPD would be responsible for identifying and preparing new land-related projects for
financing by the World Bank and possibly other international financial organizations. This department
would be headed by a Deputy Director and would have a regular and fixed-term staff of at least two
professionals whose specialties and experience would include a mixture of economics, financial analysis,
and technical knowledge of land issues. The PPD would also engage short-term staff and consultants,
both Russian and foreign, with specific technical expertise to meet specific needs. It is expected that the
I'PD would benefit from lessons learned from project implementation and that there would be some
degree of cooperation in staff assignments between the PID and PPD.
PDU Staffing
7.    The PDU would need an Accountant with apprupriate qualification and experience in international
accounting practices to be responsible for the introduction and management of all financial and accounting
matters required for project imllementation and preparation. This appointment should be made as soon
as possible to allow participation in the design and development of the internal control, accounting and
reporting arrangements required to implement the LARIS Project. The Accountant would also be
responsible for the administrative management of 'ie Special Account and the disbursement process for
all agencies and institutions participating in the LARIS Project. The appointment of the Accountant
should have the concurrence of the World Bank. The Accountant should be supported for the first two
years by a foreign accountant who is experienced in international accounting practices.
8.    The PDU would also need a Procurement Officer to direct and guide procurement activities of
all the participating agencies and institutions associated with the implementation of the LARIS Project.
This appointment would have the concurrence of the World Bank. The PDU would retain a lawyer (or
law firm) with appropriate experience in Russian administrative law and international commercial
transactions to assist as required with legal issues. The selection of the lawyer (or law firm) should have
the concurrence of the World Bank.
9.    All the PDU staff (higher-level and support level) will be recruited locally. Most of the staff
appointments would be fixed-term and will be designed to complete a specific assignment. This is
essential to give the PDU the flexibility to change its staff mix to reflect the project portfolio under
preparation and implementation. The local PDU staff would be supported by foreign txperts who would
also train Russian experts in project preparation and project implementation, including procurement and
accounting.



98                                   A&LE& 9
Page 3 of 8
Size of PDU Staff
10.   Following is an estimate of the number of staff required. The first column indicates the estimated
total number of staff required when the LI RIS Project is under full implementation, including an active
Project Preparation Department. The second column indicates those positions that need to be filled most
urgently to assure effective implementation of the LARIS Project, which is the highest priority.
Number of Russian Staff
Staff                      When Fully                At Project
Operational              Effectiveness
PDU Director                    1                         1
Dep. Dir., PID                  1                         1
Dep. Dir., PPD                  1                         0
Head, Registration              1                         1
Head, Mapping                   1                         1
Head, Inst. Dev.                1                         1
Accountant                      1                         1
Procurement Officer             1                         1
Project Prep Staff              2                         0
Secretaries                     3                         3
Interpret/Translators           3                         3
Sub-total                      16                        13
Number of Foreign Exets
Procurement Specialist          1                         1
Accountant                      1                         1
Proj. Implement. Spec.          1                         1
Sub-total                       3                         3
Grand Total                    19                        16
Tenm  of Referene for SeWected Russan Staff of the PDU
11.   The PDU must include staff with good communication skills, both oral and written, in the English
language. This is especially important for the Head, Insttutional Development, and the specialists
involved in project preparation. Following is a summary of important additional qualificatkrns and skills
required.



99                                  ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 8
12.   PDU Director: The full-time PDU Director will have responsibility ta direct, oversee, and
coordinate the management and implementation of the LARIS Project. Therefore, the Director must be
a specialist in project preparation and project implementation, should have adequate experience in a field
related to land registration, and must have had at least 10 years of relevant experience in managiig
complex projects. This appointment would have the concurrence of the World Bank.
13.   PID Deputy Director: The Deputy Director for the Project Implementation Department will
oversee and facilitate irmplementation of the three components of the LARIS Project. The Deputy
Director should meet as often as necessary with the Heads of those components to learn what problems
or issues they face and to work out a plan of action to facilitate implementation. The Deputy Director
will be responsible for assuring that the component heads submit data for the periodic financial and
progress reports required by the World Bank, and will recommend disbursements under the Bank loan.
The Deputy Director should have relevant experience in an agricultural or land discipline, and must have
had at least five years' relevant experience in project implementation. This appointment would have the
concurrence of the World Bank. The incumbent would work under the guidance of a foreign Project
Implementation Specialist for the first two years.
14.   Accountant: The Accountant will review for consistency with the LARIS Project and World
Bank procedures the withdrawal, or disbursement applications prepared by the Project Implementation
Department before sending them to the PDU Director for signature. This appointment would have the
concurrence of the World Bank. The incumbent would work under the guidance of a foreign Accountant
for the first two years.
15.   Procurement Officer: The Procurement Officer should have been trained and have experience
in procurement procedures and should have the ability to train, direct and guide procurement activities
of all the participating agencies and institutions associated with implementation of the LARIS Project.
This appointment would have the concurrence of the World Bank. The Procurement Officer will be
assisted for the first two years by a foreign adviser who is familiar with World Bank procurement
procedures.
16.   PPD Deputy Director: The Deputy Director for the Project Preparation Department will be
responsible for overseeing and directing the identification and preparation of new land-related projects
for fin&1cing by the World Bank and other financial institutions. The ideal candidate would have had at
least five -ears of relevant experience in project identification, preparation, and management. This
appointme,i. would have the concurrence of the World Bank.
17.   Project Preparation Staff: Two Project Preparation Specialists will serve with the Deputy
Director, PPD, in carrying out the analyses for and preparing new land-related projects. Short-tern
technical specialists wiii be drawn upon as required in the preparation of projects. Depending on the
nature of the project being developed, the project preparation staff mighE consist of economists, financial
analysts, technical specialists, policy analysts and experts in project management. In the process of
conceiving and preparing new prejects, the Project Preparation Staff would interact with other
professional staff in PDU and witi foreign consultants who would be helping the Government piepare
projects.
18.   Head, Institutional Development: The Head of the Institutional Development component will
work with the Heads of the two central project groups to manage implementation of the technical



100                                  ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 8
assistance and traning programs. The incumbent will work closely with the PDU Director to define the
technical assistance and training needs of the PDU management (procurement, accounting, and
disbursement) and of the Project Preparadon Department. After technical assistance and training plans
are approved, th'e Head, Institutional Development Department, will take responsibility for arranging the
logistics to assure that the technical assistance and training programs are implemented effectively. It is
inportant that the incumbent have excellent communication skills in the English language. This
appointment would have the concurrence of the World Bank.
ROLE OF CENTRAL AND OBLAST PROJECT GROUPS
19.   Implementation of the cadastre mapping and registration components of LA!RIS will be the
responsibility of two central project groups established within the Land Reformn Center in Moscow. The
two central project groups will work in close cooperation with, and under the supervision of, the PDU
and the Director of the Land Refonn Ceiiter. The directors of both central project groups will be
members of the Project Implementation Department (PID) of the PDU and interact with the Director of
the PID on a daily basis.
20.   The functions of the central project groups will be the following; (a) initial testing of new
technologv and system designs (in collaboraton with technical assistance advisors), (b) training of
relevant staff at the federal and regional levels, (c) assistance to the regional level in the introduction and
start-up of new teclnologies and operading systems, (d) oversight and monitoring of component
implementation at the regional and local levels, and (e) nommunication and reporting linkage between the
regions and the PDU. The general staffing plans for the central project groups are included in the main
tert of the SAR.
21.   The central project group for cadastre mapping will work directly with VISKhAGI and the six
regional mapping enterprises included in the project (Annex Figure 9.2). Each mapping enterprise will
have two full-time staff devoted to project implementation. They will carry out necessary accounting and
reporting functions, and assist the Director of the mapping enterprise in coordination of project
implementation. Each mapping enterprise will also have 3-5 technical experts who will work with the
central project group in setting up and conducting training at the regional lIvel.
22.   The central project group for registration will oversee a network of ten oblast project groups
(Annex Figure 9.3). The oblast project groups will work in close collaboration with registration offices
at the oblast and rayon levels to train staff, assist in project implementation, and monitor project progress.
The oblast project groups will consist of roughly 12 individuals as follows; 1 director, 1 accountant, 1
project implementation specialist, 4 software specialists, 3 land registration specialists, and two hardware
specialists.



101                                    ArL
Page 6 of 8
Annex Figure 9.1: Organization of the Project Development Unit (PDU) for the LARIS Proje
Project                                    Chairman
| Comint    -----                      Pussan Land Committee
Director
(Land Reform Center)
RosNiTs *Zemlya
Dirsbtor PDU
Deputy                                           Dph 
DiroctDr                                         DirectDr
PI                                                  PPD
Disbursement 
Head                      Head                    Head
Central Project G3roup    Central Project Group       instibtonal
for Land Registra'ton   for Land Cadastre Mapping    Development
NoW: PID:- Projt lmphn   W    Depsot PPD: . Projet Preat  DepbntL



Annex Figure 9.2: Arrangement for Implementing Land Cadasttral Mapping Component of the LARIS Project
Projed
lmnplemementaion
Department
ZIiZ
"'roup            ~~~CentralF "set
Central Projec lGroup .______-------T  Group for Land
Cadastre Mapping
VISKhAGI
Rejpoe  Maoj*w   Enc--r-- 
Nizhny Novogorod      Novocherkes6        St. Petembur             MOgiXY   |                                Omsk
I                                         I         r           '              I                           I,
N yoo11
Rostov    Vooeh Lnnrd        Oe          oso         ua      Smr         en       Os



Annex Figure 9.3: Arrangement for Implementing the Land Registration System Component of the LARIS Project
Russian
Land Committe
PDU
Central Ploje  Group                                                     l stration
'~Land Registration---------------Group
Leningrad                    MsoOrlNlzhny                             Voronezh           Rostov        Perm           Samara           Omsk
OTOblast                    Oblast        Oblast      NOba            Oblast            Obtlst       Obtast          Oblast          Oblast
15            10            15            10            8             8                 8             8              10               8
Rayons        Rayons        Rayons        Rayons        Rayons        Rayons            Rayons        Rayons         Rayons           Rayons
oo0



104                                 ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 9
RUSSLAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LAWUS) PROJECT
1TICDMNTIO- PLAN
GUIDELNES FOR OBLAST PARTICIPATION
1.    Oblast authorities agree to establish a juridical cadastre and automated land registration system
as .follows:
(i)   to establish rayon and oblast registration groups in accordance with the implementation
plan or amendments to that plan as jointly agreed to by the Russian Land Committee and
the World Bank;
(ii)   to include the attribute and graphic files in the registration system as contained in the
Agreement on Information Content of the Land Registration System (see below);
(iii)  to adhere to adjudication, demarcation, and survey procedures as determined for this
project (see below); and
(iv,\  to establish digital mapping units in those oblasts where such units will be located.
2.    Oblast authorities agree to ensure the protection of property rights in land, including the rights
to buy, sell, mortgage, lease, and inherit land. In particular, oblast governments will ensure the speedy
decision regarding applications for free transfer of land, according to established hectare norms, form the
State Land Reserve Fund.
3.    Oblast authorities agree to facilitate project implementation through:
(i)   location of adequate premises for rayon and oblast registration groups, and for regional
project groups and mapping enterprises for those oblasts in which such groups will be
located;
(ii)   necessary assistance in locating staff for these groups;
(iii)   necessary logistical assistance to Russian Land Committee in conducting training in
registration and digital mapping technology at the oblast level; and
(iv)   provision of other necessary support services to carry out the project.
4.    Oblast authorities agree to ensure public access to information based on schedule agreed under
the project implementation.



105                                 ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 9
5.    Oblast authorities agree on the following principles to ensure the sustainability of land registration
system:
(i)    Share the cost of establishing land registration offices by providing in-kind support.
(ii)   Provide budgetary support to operate the land registration offices beyond the life of the
project.
(iii)   Use the revenue generated through cost recovery measures imnplemented in the project.
for the maintenance and operations of the land registration offices.
INFORMATION CONTENT OF THE LAND REGISTRATIoN SYSrEm
6.    Indicator of the Recording
(i)    Cadastral number
(ii)   Previous cadastral number (from which the given cadastre was created)
(iii)   Number(s) of the map sheets
(iv)   Number(s) of the quadrants on the map sheets
(v)    Number of the land file.
7.    Description of the Land Prcl
(i)    Name
(ii)    Address and other orientation
(iii)   Area
(iv)   Form of tenure (sobstvennost, vladenie, pol'zovanie-ownership, proprietorship, use)
(v)    Date of termination of use rights
(vi)   Document establishing rights to the parcel
(vii)  Land category
(viii)  Document affirming rights to the parcel
(ix)   Name of the owner of the land parcel (if the parcel is let to a user)
8.    Informatiion about the Owner (User) of the Parcel
(i)    Name of the juridical person or citizen
(ii)   Postal address
(iii)   Passport of the citizen, registration nunmber of the juridical person.



106                                 ANNE 1
Page 3 of 9
9.    Information about Structures Located on the Land Parcel
(i)    Form of rights to structure
(ii)    Date of termination to use of the structure
(iii)   Document establishing rights to the structure
(iv)   Type of real property (residential and service structures, industrial strucatres, roads,
underground utilities, etc.), area occupied by the real property
(v)    Owner of the structure.
10.   Information on Easements Applying to the Parcel and Rea Property
(i)    Number on the plan, name of the parcel, area
(ii)   Content of the easement (reference to the document).
11.    Information on Alienation of Part of the Real Property
(i)    Cadastral number of the part of the alienated real property
(ii)   Area
(iii)   Basis for alienation.
ADJUDICATION, DEMARCATiON ANm SURVEY PRtOCEDURES
12.       These procedures are to apply to existing parcels and not to newly created or subdivided
parcels. These procedures will need to elaborated, based on actal condidons in a given location, but
serve as the basis for handling adjudication, demarcation, and survey of parcels in territories oovered by
automated system of registration conained in the LARIS Project. Agreement on these procedures by the
oblasts will be a pre-requisite for their participation in the LARIS Project.
Basic Principles
13.       Adjudcation on a Systemaic Basis. Adjudication in inhabited places will be carried out
on a systematic rather than piecemeal basis, with entire settlements, or districts of villages and towns
adjudicated on a set number of days.
14.       Adjudication in the Feld.  Adjudication should take place in the fiCld in the form of
agreement between neighbors in the presence of an authorized adjudication officer. While pre-existing
docments can be useful in this process, lengthy and expensive procedures to establish or re-establish
boundaries from previous documents, when these boundaries are different from those which the land
owners themselves have mutually agreed to, is a wasteful use of resources.
15.       Maximum Reliance on Aerial Photography and Compter Processing of Images. Digital
mapping of 1:2000 scale can provide adequat graphic represenation of individual parcels with a
minimum of follow-up field work.



107                                ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 9
16.       Sufficient Pragmatism in Survey Requirements.  Survey requirements should be set so as
to allow the use of digital images as indicated, above, but also in determining subsequent standards for
buying and selling land, leasing land and mortgaging land. These standards should not be set at such a
level of accuracy as to choke off economic transactions involving land.
17.       A schedule of systematic adjudication is devised for a given rayon in the automated
registration program consistent with the implementation program for the project as a whole and aerial
photography is scheduled so as to follow adjudication in the field.
18.       An information campaign is undertaken using available local media, announcing the date(s)
of systematic adjudication in a given settlement, village or town. Included in these notices would be an
indication of a list of prior steps that land owners must take to prepare for the adjudication (collection
of documents, preliminary discussion with neighbors on boundary questions), and a description of the
process of adjudication itself.
19.       Land owners collect relevant documents or evidence verfing their status as land owners.
(note: in cases where land users ha:e occupied parcels for a sufficient length of time, prior possession
should be accepted as adequate evidence of ownership).
20.       The rayon committee for land resources and land management locates available topographic-
cadastral maps for the territory in question or prepares a rough scematic plan of the settlement or town
in question as a reference tool in the field adjudication process.
21.       An authorized official (or officials) of the local state land committee, or other individual(s)
empowered by the local adnion or the courts, are identified to conduct adjudication procedures
in the field.
22.       Conduct of systematic adjudication on the announced day (or days). Land owners will be
asked to provide docume on or other evidence verinfying their status as land owners, and to provide
other information about themselves (name, passport, etc.) as necessary. Claimants to land will meet with
neighbors, in the presence of the authorized adjudication officer to reach agreement on boundary location.
The adjudication officer will have on hand available records of parcel boundaries to assist in Xh process,
bwprecedence will be given to the legal agreement between neighbors, as the owners of land, rather than
to pre-exsting records. That is, if agreement is reached between neighbors on the location of the
boundary, then recourse to pre-eistng records will not be necessary and the question of boundary
location will be closed. To the extent possible, existig boundary delineations (fences, hedges, walls,
etc.) will be posited as indicating legal boundaries.
23.       Immediely following agreement between neighbors on bounday location, any supplemental
markings will be made in the presence of the authorized administrative representative so as to define
parcel boundaries (urning points and lines) from the air. These marlings will be made by authorized
representatives of the rayon land committee.



108                                 xANE  10
Page S of 9
24        In cases where boundaries are in dispute, documents that are available at the time of
adjudication will be reviewed in the field. If the dispute cannot be resolved in the field, such dispute will
be noted by the adjudication officer.
25.        Those failing to take part in the systematic adjudication process will have forfeited their right
to register their land ownership, but not their land ownership itself. Owners will bear the cost of special
adjudication, demarcation and survey of their parcels conducted as a result of failure to take part in the
systematic adjudication process. Exceptions can be treated on a case-by-case basis. Without registration
of a given parcel, land sales, leasing, and mortgaging of that parcel will not have legal force.
26.        Following the systematic adjudication process, aerial photography will be flown at 1:8000
scale so as to allow digital mapping at 1:2000 scale.
27.        The images are then processed, as called for in the project, to generate digital mapping.
28.        The digital base maps provide the source of information for graphic representation of plots.
Processing of the base maps is done in the registration groups established by the project. Follow-up field
work will be held to a minimum and used for filling in missing or inadequate information on turning
points or lines that was not captured in the aerial photography. Such field work will not be conducted
systematically to provide greater precision to digital images.
29.        Certificates are issued with survey information as described above. A paper copy goes to
the land owner and a disk copy is stored at the rayon land committee (the rayon registration group). If
necessary, a paper copy will also be filed in the rayon land committee.
30.        These surveys will function for land sales, leases, and mortgages. Subsequent elaboration
of surveys by full field methods will be determined by requirements of land owners, banks, or other
organizations, but the underlying philosophy will be to balance demands for greater precision and detail,
with the need for economic activity in land to continue.
31.       In cases of dispute that cannot be resolved at the time of adjudication, a filler review of
existing documents is carried out by the local administration. A review of these documents is arranged
for the parties involved in an office of the local administration. If the dispute cannot be resolved in the
office of the local administration, then it is referred to the courts. Costs required as a result of
supplemental field survey work resulting from disputes should be borne, at least partally, by the
disputants themselves, as a means of encouraging dispute resolution at the time of adjudication.
Cosr RECOVERY MEAn s
32         Various cost recovery measures would be introduced during project implementation to cover
part or all of the incremental operating costs of the registration offices. Proposed types of services and
services fees are listed below:



109                                ANNE 10
Page 6 of 9
Service Type                                               Service Fee
Initial Registration                                       Small
Registration Procedures:
Buying and Selling                                  Reasonable
Gifts                                               Reasonable
Exchange                                            Reasonable
Inheritance                                         Reasonable
Leasing                                             Reasonable
Mortgage                                            Reasonable
Sen :.ude                                           Reasonable
Limitations                                         Reasonable
Other                                               Reasonable
Information:
Government Agencies                                 Free
Legal Entities and Citizens                         Reasonable
Chain of Rights Study-                              Reasonable
' Similar to title search and verification of rights
The list of the types of services provided and service fees charged would be fiuther developed and refined
during project implementation.
DETAID PROJEcr lIEMENTATION PLAN
33.   The broad implementation plan for the proposed LARIS project is developed in Annex Figure
10.1. The underlying assumption for this implementation plan is that the loan would become effective
in the third quarter of 1994.



Annex Figure 10.1: Implementation Plan For the LARIS Project
R0                  Task Name                          lo"           1995    _ 1996    _   1997              1998         1999
F  TaskName                  3 Q904011  Q4 Q1 02 03 04 01 02 03Q04  Q102Q304 Q1  2341 Q2 Q3 Q4
2 Loan Processing        _                            MME
3    Negotatlons
4    Board Presentations
5    Proe Launch Workshop
8    Loan eltecffveess 
7 PDU estabished & staffed LIE i
8 Procurement agents selected__E  1
_  TA for PBi Doc. preparation 
10 PDU consultant advisor seected
11                 _ _=_______________I______
12 B. Ca_PSa                                     A 
13 Prepare ICB procurement
14 Prepare ICB procurement
1_ Prepare ICB procurement
16 Complete ICB procurement
17 Complete ICB procurement
18 Complete ICB procurement
19 Central Project Group established & staffed     E 3ZM
20 Central Project Group equiped
21 Testing of Digital Mapping Techniques
22 Equipment Mapping Enterprises
23    Phase I (2 enterprises)
24    Phase II (2 enterprises)
25    Phase III (2 enterprises)                                                           a
28 Aerial Photography Flown                          3
27 Aerial Photography Flown
28 Aerial Photography Flown
29 Aerial Photography Flown
30 Aerial Photography Flown                                                                                                   |
31 Aerial Photography Flown                           _I o0



Annex Figure 10.1: Implementation Plan For the LARIS Project
Rol,               _TkNam                               1994  _      1996      _  1996  _        1997         1998          199
1*                  Task NamoQ04 01 Q2 03 Q4 01 021031Q4Q1 02 03040102 0304 01 Q2 Q3 04 01102 Q3 04
32 Aerial Photograpiy Flown
33 AefraIPography Flown
34 Aerial PhLography Flown _  _
35 Aerial Ph2ra phy Flown                                                                                         I
36 Exsflng Maps Dgitalized                                                                MF ME"mfE
37 New Digital Mappin Produced
38    Moscow, Nizhny Novogorod
351  Rostov, Pefrn                                                                                          V   WAt- MsB  *
40    Omsk, St Petersburg
41 Testin of Data tranfers to Reg.groups
42 _
44 Prepare ICB procurement
45 Prepare ICB procurement
46 Prepare ICB procurernent
47 Prepare ICB procurement
48 Complete ICS p   ement
49 Complete ICB procurement
sa Complete ICB procurement                                                                     m l   iM
S1 Complete ICB procurement
52 Central Project Group established
63 Central Project Group equiped
64 Testing of Automated Registration system
55 Oblast Proiect Groups equiped_
56    Phase 1(4 groups)                                          Mad
57    Phase 11(4 groups)
58    Phase III (2 groups)
59 Federal Registrationgroupequiped                                                                                                       >
60 Oblast Registration group equiped                                                                                                   e IZ
61    Phase 1(4 groups)
62    Phase 11 (4 groups)                                                     ioo



Annex Figure 10.1: Implementation Plan For the LARIS Project
Ri                   Task Name                            1994     _   1995           1996          1997     _   1998      _   1999
# ___Task______Name____0Q4  1Q Q2 03 04 Q4 I Q2 Q3                                     Q4 01 Q2 030401 Q2103 I Q4 0102  Q3 040 1203 04
63    Phase 111(2 groups)
64 Automated Rayon Registration group equiped
65 1st phase Sup. Rayon Registration group equiped
66 Assesment of Sup. Registration program
67 2nd phase Sup. Rayon Registration group equiped
68 3rd phase Sup. Rayon Registration group equiped
69 4th phase Sup. Rayon Registration group equlped
70 Land Titles Issued                                                                                       711
71    Supplemental Rayons                                                                          l
72    Automated Rayons
73
75 Consultants recruited for Training
76 Foreign Training
77 Incountry Training
78    Mosoow
79    Regional Centems 
80 Consutants Recruitment for TA
81 Core TA carried out                                                                                         on
82 Supporting TA carried outi
83
E  PlEctSuAdRn
85 Annual Implementation Review
88 Annual Implementaton ReviewL
87 Annual Implementation Review
88 Annual Implementation Review
89 Annual Implementation Review
90 PCR Preparaton                                                 III                  III                            IIt
91 Mid Term Review
v- -- -T-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



113                                 ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN AND SCHEDULE
BANK SUPERVSoN
1.    The proposed Bank supervision plan and supervision schedule for the LARIS Project are
summarized in Annex Table 11.1. The PDU, located in the Russian Land Committee, is expected to play
an important role in project supervision since it is responsible for day to day implementation of the
project. Periodic supervision will be undertaken by Bank staff and assisted by the staff from the Bank's
Resident Mission and consultants. The supervision missions will follow established Bank guidelines. The
supervision plan also outlines timing for the annual reviews and mid-term review.
SUPPLEMENTAL REGIS1RATION PROGRAM
2.    The list of oblasts and the number of rayons for each oblast included in Phase 1 of the
supplemental registration program are provided in Annex Table 11.2. The remaining rayons will be
selected during project implementation.
PROJECT OUTUT
3.    The expected output (number of maps and registration certificates) of the automated land
registration program of the LARIS project is reported in Annex Table 11.3. Annex Table 11.4 provides
output indicators for the first phase of the supplemental registration program, and Annex Table 11.5
assumes that the supplemental registration program will be expanded to the maximum number of 500
rayons. While these estimates of project output are preliminary, they provide targets against which
project performance can be measured.



114                                  ANNA 11
Page 2 of 7
Annex Table 11.1: Proposed Supervision Plan and Schedule for the LARIS Project
Approximate       Activity                        Expected Skill Requirement'     Staff
Date of Input                                                                    Weeks
(mo/yr)
July 94            Supervision mission            Task Manager                     15
(Project launch)               Land Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Oct. 94            Supervision mission            Task Manager                     12
Land Specialist
Financial Analyst
ProtLrement Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Jan. 9$            Supervision mission            Task Manager                     10
Procurement Specialist
Land Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
April 952         Supervision mission             Task Manager                     10
Procurement Specialist
Land Specialist
'nstitutional Dev. Specialist
July 95            Supervision usi Ons            Task Manager                     83
Nov. 95                                           Land Specialist
March 962                                         Institutional Dev. Specialist
July 96
Nov. 96
March 972         Supervision mission (mid-term   Task Manager                     15
review)                        (and Specialist
Financial Analyst
Prorurement Specialist
Disbuvwment Specialist
Institutionai Dev. Specialist
(contined)



115                                 ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
Approximate       Activity                       Expected Skill Requirement'     Staff
Date of Input                                                                   Weeks
(molyr)
July 97           Supervision nissions           Task Manager                     83
Nov. 97                                          Land Specialist
March 982                                        Institutional Dev. Specialist
July 98           Supervision missions           Task Manager                     83
Nov. 98                                          Land Specialist
March 992                                        Institutional Dev. Specialist
July 99           Supervision mission            Task Manager                      8
Land Specialist
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Dec. 99           Supervision mission            Task Manager                     12
(and PCR preparation)         Land Specialist
Financial Analyst,
Institutional Dev. Specialist
Additional skill requirements may emerge during project implementation.
2 Also includes annual reviews.
3 8 staff weeks for each supervision mission.



116                                &M  11
Page 4 of 7
Amnex Table 11.2 : List of Oblasts and Number of Rayous for Eah Oblast Induded in
Phse I of the Supplemental Registration Program
Oblast                                 Number of Rayons
Moscow                                        10
Leningrad                                     2
Nizhny Novgorod                               S
Rostov                                        5
Perm                                          5
Voronezh                                      5
Omsk                                          5
Tula                                          S
Orel                                          S
Samara                                        5
Yaroslavl                                     7
Vladimir                                      7
Ryazan                                        7
Kaluga                                        7
Tver                                          7
Primorsky Kray                                6
Smolensk                                      7
Total                                       100



Am    Table 11.3: Expe   Number d Map ad Ce                to be ubsender tbe Aut ALad Ron System
1S                     1996                    1997                    1998                    1999
Oblast         _                      Map                                 R                       Regist. Maps            Regist.
Si| S2   ItR  Os   SI   S2              OS   Si                 OS   S                        S    SIS
Moscow                                   0.8  1.3  600   120                        120                     120                     120
Lgningrad                                1.6  1.7   1100  220                      220                     220                     220
Orel                                                             0.5  0.8   100  20                        20                      20
Tula                                                              0.4  0.7   100  20                       20                       20
Nizbny Novgorod                                                  0.6  1.0  100  20                         20                      20
Vorone2i                                                                                  0.5  1.5  150  30                         30
Perm                                                              0.5  1.6  180  36                        36                       36
Rostov                                                                                    0.7  1.5  160  32                         32
Samara                                                                                                            0.8  0.8  100   20
Omsk                                                                                                              0.9  0.7  350   70
Totals by Year     None                  2.4  3.0   1700  340   2.0  4.1  480  436   1.2  3.0  310  498   1.7  1.5  450   588
Total for Project                                                                                                 7.3  11.6  2940  1862
SI = 1:10000; S2 = 1:2000;  IR = Initial Registration; OS = Other Services of Registration Offices
o0 
0n Z
s4



118                                    ANNEX I I
Page 6 of 7
Annex Table 11.4: Expected Number of Initial Registrations in Supplemental Rayons
(Flrst Phase - 100 Rayons)
(Thousand)
Oblast         Number of Rayons  Annual Number of   Total Number of
Registrations     Registrations
(1995 - 1999)
Moscow                        10                40                 200
Leningrad                     2                  8                 40
Nizhny Novgorod               5                 20                 100
Rostov                        5                 20                 100
Perm                          5                 20                 100
Voronezh                      5                 20                 100
Omsk                          5                 20                 100
Tula                          5                 20                 100
Orel                          5                 20                 100
Samara                        5                 20                 100
Yaroslavl                     7                 20                 100
Vladimir                      7                 28                 140
Ryazan                        7                 28                 140
Kaluga                        7                 28                 140
Tver                          7                 28                 140
Primorsky Kray                6                 24                 120
Smolensk                      7                 28                 140
TOTAL                        100                400               2000



119                             ANNEX 1 1
Page 7 of 7
Annex Table 11.5: Expected Niumber of nitial Registrations
in the Remaining 400 Supplemena yons
(Thousand)
Year                          Number of Registations
1995 
1996                                   1600
1997                                   1600
1998                                   1600
1999                                   1600
TOTAL                                   6400



120                                 ANNEx 12
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LAWS) PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FE
CONSULTANT REporrs
1.    ARIS Land Reform Component: Project Preparation Report, Philip Woodcock, July
1993
2.    ARIS Project Land Reform Component: Preparation Report.Peter F. Dale, June 26, 1993
3.    ARIS Land Registration Component: Appraisal Report, Philip Woodcock, November
1993
RUSSIAN LAND COMMFrrEE REPORTS AND DOCumENTs
1     ARIS Project. Land Administration and Management (in Russian), December 1993.
December 1993 Project Description.
2.    ARIS Project. Land Adniistration (in Russian), May 1993. Background information
for project preparation.
3.    Re.port on Technical  uipin of Cadastral P    n(in Russian), 1993. Description
of plans for introducing digital mapping technology by the Russian Land Committee.
4.    On Reform of the Land Cadastre of Russia (in Russian), Oct. 8, 1993. Describes
advantages of an improved cadastre.
5.    Basic Principles for Creating and Developing the State Automated System for
Imlementation of the Land Cadastre of the Russian Federation (in Russian with English
translation), no date. RosNITs Zemlya's plan for an automated cadastre.
6.    The State Cadastral Book of Land (in Russian), no date. Draft of table formats for the
State Cadastre.
7.    On Perfecting Land Relations and Land Reform in Agriculture (in Russian), May 21,
1993. Describes advantages of an improved cadastre.
8.    The Federal Targeted Program "Land of Russia" (in Russian with English translation),
1992. General plan to improve the land cadastre of Russia.
9.    A Unified Technology for Cadastral and Topographo-Geodetic Survevs for the Purpose
of Inventory of Land and Introduction of a Cadastre in Cities. Towns and Villages for
1994-95, (in Russian with English translation), April 14, 1994.



121                                 ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
10.   Temporarv Guidelines for Inventory of Land of Inhabited Places (in Russian with English
translation), May 17, 1993.
OTHER DOCUMENTS
1.    Russian Federation. Land Reform and Farm Restructuring, Agrarian Institute (Moscow),
1993.
2.    Land Title Registration in the Russian Federation, Oct. 28, 1993 by Justin Holl. Report
by consultant for Agriculture Cooperative Development International (ACDI) on status
of land registration in Russia and a draft land registration law prepared for the SLC.
3.    Land Reform and Land Title Registration in the Russian Federation, March 9, 1993, by
Justin Holl. Report following Mr. Holl's initial mission to Russia.
4.    Russian Agrarian Reform: A Fieldwork-based Assessment, Rural Development Institute
(RDI) Report #83, by Roy L. Prosterman and Leonard J. Rolfes Jr., July 30, 1993. A
policy study carried out in collaboration with the Agrarian Institute (Moscow).
5.    AgErarian Reform in Russia, RDI Monograph #11, by Roy L Prostermian, Timothy
Hanstad and Leonard J. Rolfes, Jr., May 1993.
6.    Computer Applications of Land Registration, by E. John Pryer, July 1991.
7.    System Description of Russian Land Registration System, October 4, 1993. Description
of Danish approach to their pilot projects in St. Petersburg and Perm.
8.    Agreement for Cooperation on Cadastral Development in Russia, Jan. 15, 1993.
Agreement between the Russian Land Committee and Swedsurvey outlining plans for the
Swedish pilot registration project in Chudovo Rayon, Novgovod Oblast.
9.    The Legal Basis for Land Allocation in the Russian Federation, by Stephen Butler and
Sheila O'Leary, The Urban Institute, Dec. 1993. Report prepared for USAID,
PRE/H/NIS, Shelter Sector Reform Project, Russian Federation, City of Moscow.
OTR BANK GROUP DOCUMETS
1.    Land Privatization and Farm Reorganization in Russia, Draft Discussion Document for
Russian Government officials, IFC, 1993. Description of Nizhny Novgovod Pilot Project
financed by USAID and UK Know How Fund.
2.    Russia: Land Reform and Farm Restructuring in Russia, Sector Report (Yellow Cover),
EC3AI and AGRAP, June 1993.



IBRD 25148
KILOMETERSO              500                                                                                RUSSlAN   FEDERATION                                                                              -  -   - -  -              U.S.A.
MILES a                  400                                                    LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT (LARIS) PROJECT
*'                                                                                                                 OBLAST, KRAI OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
LAND REGISTRATION SYSTEM'                    AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUG OR
REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
0    MAPPING ENTERPRISES                      *    MOSCOW(16)
KI NQM Q-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'Other Oblists may be included in the supplemental registraiion program during implementation.               Lo'!               84
Including Republics of Adygeya, Altai, Karachri-Cherkess arnd Khokasio.                                   iben ;:                                          0 g
Se;.li          <. .-~ .                                                                                                                C      T    I AC  O C EA N                                     0
, NORWAY                          >                       Barents                      rt               +         )
Seo                                                  ,
OEJ 'iRKf  -       SWEDEN                                                                                                        1 .v,,            Laeu            ,_ wE                                                    80
, <10                                                                                                     Karo X fl ) ~   o    ca
Sea _.
OL                                    FINLAND
<1K;1                                           1
0 h oXBKLAU  Z   A* 20                 H          6                                   T                                                                                                 Al N
1-                                                4
LAND ~ ~ 91    23
BE2RU           2           '.o24           i3                                       v     o458a55gR                                                                                     c      k
~~~~~~45~~~~~~~ 
<                          19 1~~9  5
13-                                                                                                                                                                                                   858
A R                     .A                                                                                                                                                 The Uoundures       ars, d2 76enmiionomnun o h            no       n
S. Mum.ski ablas                          23 Ieholtnkai                                                                                                                 onus  4h1.  moporoski  doos  n9t Almcsi  on the popbli of  ThTuvtoBn
6.Vlgdki  bas                             4  eulco pheJh4.Rpbi  fDgsa                                                           60.4                           endorsemen of    acptnc 78. Amu hoi abounare
1. ASLhonetesbura ob251. Kmeirkovsai  oblost                                             437. Cheche  Repbli an  nuh  eulc             61Kmrvk'ools                                          739 Krmotsnoiau kabbs
2. Nenetnuskoii Auoomlous o                     20. TRsepbico MabliEst                    38. Soatonsinacaloolkas 5eulc6. Nomoibinmyskaia obast8    oibutonomous obru                        74ugulc fKaai
3. Rovepulcof Koreia bl                         21. TuI'skoo  Repblist                    39. Repuliof otrsto ni                       573. Sedovskoi obas                                   75. Khoborevkii kmiooNnesci  uonmu  ku
40. RPublskio oflaKomt 22. Ntaizhiyrs oodi ablbst                                         40. Uinvkl  bot5.Umr Republic                                                                       76Ayea6.Tosooold8. Evesiisld autonomous oblosg
51. Mcisamskola ablaut                          23. Blgoroslskaio o blost                 41. VogorlhOdeSek eubio5.Tuenki oblt5.Afskltas4                                                     77. Republskic of bloso
62. IVaolooskolo oblost                         24. Reunki blcof hatu                   342. Republkicof Dagsto                        60. Repblc sfAltonisiotn u    7bg84. AnurosElco auobooust                       ku
7.3S. Peterhsk burg t                           25. Lipetiskoaiaoblast                    43. ChehenRepublsic  andinuhRpbc              61. Yameao-Nenets obau usl                            79ug8. Komchtekiob obi s
84. L.eninradskoia oblost                       326. Republof Metioal-EI                  44. Kobrdnoo-Blchrbis Republic              62. Novosbik of aBuroSto                               86. Korhoiak bi auoomlouste
95. Nogogskovbio oblast                         27. Mordvonetsaools                        1 Republic    45  rsoofrBskiikeroi         o69.OCh sUk'OiOo   lest                                 81. Khaibaroeof Skho IYkta
*10. Peovekola Cbity                              38. AsNlzheniy  ovgr ablast               46. Rhepulicbnbi of ls A7g0a6. omskcio ablrstsk                                                    82oewsutonomous o  g8.Kinnndki  oblost
15. MOrknlo nav let3.Vooeskabo obbost                                                      51. Republic of  Bashketosto                 69. Chrgonskoio oblast                                87. ReIr    fSart 'kutskioobos
18. Riozonsliola oblost                          36. Penzenskaia ablest                    54. Onenburgskcaio oblost                    72. Ust'-Ondynskii Butyatakul autonomous ob ug
JUNE 1994



