                    Document of
                  The World Bank




                                                Report No: 29286

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                    (CPL-37560)

                       ON A

                       LOAN

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION

                      TO THE

               RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                      FOR A

RUSSIA LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PROJECT




                    April 12, 2004

     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

 (Exchange Rate Effective March 2004)

      Currency Unit = Russian Ruble (RUR)
Russian Ruble (RUR) = US$ 28.49
           US$ 1.00 = RUR 0.35

            FISCAL YEAR
       January 1    December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



     Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director    Kristina I. Georgieva
    Sector Manager     Joseph R. Goldberg
 Task Team Leader      Edward C. Cook

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
         RUSSIA LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Summary of Project Completion Report prepared by the LARIS Center

Project ID: P034579                                                  Project Name: RUSSIA LAND REFORM
                                                                     IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Team Leader: Edward C. Cook                                          TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 10, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: RUSSIA LAND REFORM IMPLEMENTATION L/C/TF Number: CPL-37560
                            SUPPORT PROJECT
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Personal and property rights (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/1993                                     Effective: 09/16/2004                04/01/1995
     Appraisal: 10/15/1993                                         MTR: 03/15/1997                  02/05/1998
      Approval: 06/16/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REP OF RUSSIAN FED/State Committee for Land Resources (SLC)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Russell Cheetham
Sector Manager:                 Laura Tuck                                     Michael Gould
Team Leader at ICR:             Edward Cook
ICR Primary Author:             Gavin Adlington


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall aim of the Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS) Project was to accelerate the
implementation of land reform by introducing a uniform land registration system consistent with the
development of markets in land and real estate and recognition of the right to private ownership of land,
and by strengthening the Russian Land Committee's capacity to implement such a system and to issue
titles to property owners.

At the time of appraisal it was foreseen that the Project would provide support in the following four areas:
(a) upgrading cadastral mapping capability; (b) standardizing land registration procedures and
documentation to facilitate title issuance and market transactions in land; (c) putting priority on
strengthening registration capability in rayons likely to experience high levels of market activity; and (d)
providing institutional capacity building for administering the land registry and the further development of
the land registration system in Russia.

The Project clearly fit into the overall strategy of the Bank with the Russian government in 1994 to
promote the private ownership of land as part of the ongoing land reform and farm restructuring program.
LARIS was one of a series of projects and structural adjustment loans implemented in the early years of
the Bank's lending program in Russia aimed at stabilizing the economy and begining the process of
economic recovery through introduction of a market based system. The Project fit within the CAS, and its
objectives were clear, well articulated and necessary for the country. In design it was complicated, but in
retrospect it is doubtful whether the Project was fully supported by the country at appraisal. At that time,
opposition to sales markets for land, and for agricultural land in particular, was high both in Parliament
and society in general. The SAR identifies the lack of consensus on land policy within Russia as a high
risk to the Project and states that the existing land policies and decrees were the primary justification for
continuing despite the high risk. This was optimistic in a situation of frequent and major policy and
regulatory change and turned out to be unrealistic.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Legal and institutional aspects of registration of rights in land and other immovable property underwent
further debate in Russia following approval of the LARIS loan and initiation of the Project. In June 1997
the Law on Registration of Rights and Transactions in Immovable Property was adopted and became
effective six months later. This law gave the responsibility for the registration of rights to land and
immovable property to `institutions of justice'. This led to the establishment of new registration systems
at the level of Subjects of the Federation under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice and took away
from the State Land Committee responsibility for registration of rights in land. Henceforth, the role of the
Land Committee, and its subsequent organizations, was to maintain the land cadastre and to provide
information identifying land parcels to the new registration offices when rights in those parcels were
being registered.

In response to this change in the legal and institutional framework, a mid-term review (MTR) for the
Project was held in February 1998 at which time the project development objective (PDO) was revised.
Consistent with the changed framework, the primary objective of the project was revised as follows: to
accelerate the implementation of land reform through the implementation of an automated State land
cadastre system and to enhance the State Land Committee's role in implementing the unified system for
registration of rights and transactions in immovable property. This meant that information necessary for
registration of rights in land be provided by the local Land Committee offices to the local registration of
rights offices in an acceptable format and timeframe. This information was also to be made available to
other Government agencies as needed, particularly to the tax authorities for assessment of land tax.

The revision of the PDO did not require an amendment to the objective specified in the loan agreement,
which was broad enough to cover the revised objective. The revised objective still adheres to the broad
framework of land reform and development of land markets as agreed in the 1994 CAS and remained
relevant in the current CAS. It proved to be an intelligent and beneficial amendment that retained the
necessary part of the cadastral activity required for land markets to operate, but refocussed on land



                                                       - 2 -

valuation and the need to include all properties on an equitable basis to raise local revenues through land
taxes.

3.3 Original Components:
The project design consisted of four components. These were: (i) upgrading of land cadastre mapping; (ii)
establishment of the land registration system; (iii) institutional development; and (iv) project development
unit. The project components corresponded well with the original objectives as well as the revised
objectives. The land cadastre mapping was a basic infrastructure requirement for the land market
development and the land registration system was an essential part of promotion of land markets. The
institutional development component concentrated mainly on training and was well thought out and
designed for a transition country.

3.4 Revised Components:
The revision of the project development objective at the mid-term review did not require a change in the
component structure of the Project. The component most impacted was the land registration component.
This equipped local land committee offices to maintain the land cadastre and to undertake registration of
rights in land. After the adoption of the Law on Registration and the revision of the project objectives this
was amended to maintain the land cadastre and supply relevant information on land parcels to the new
registration system under the Ministry of Justice. The land cadastre mapping component retained its
relevance and was not adjusted. The institutional development component adjusted only modestly.
Training in registration of rights was still useful for staff of the land committee offices, as they continued to
play a role in this process, though became a lower priority. Increasing attention in the training programs
was given to land valuation and taxation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not rated by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) as QAG did not exist at the time of
project approval. The Project was part of a substantial integrated reform program that was designed
rapidly during 1992-94. The strategies and projects were inter-related and the subject of substantial Bank
and consultant reviews. From the point of view of the technical subject matter, the Project was extremely
well prepared covering the major issues in a well structured and logical manner. However, insufficient
attention was given to Project management, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and financial
reporting -- particularly in light of the Borrower's lack of prior experience with the Bank. The lack of
attention to monitoring, evaluation, and reporting tended to strengthen the counterpart's prevailing
orientation at the time to focus on inputs rather than Project outputs or outcomes.

The decision to go forward without a fully elaborated legal and institutional basis was a calculated risk
foreseen at appraisal. The Law on Registration, which was the cornerstone required to meet the original
objectives, was not in place and was still highly debatable as to its final form. Institutional structures
remained unresolved. However, a strategic decision was made at the time, in line with other projects, to
move quickly on getting the investment program in Russia up and running. The logic was that quick
action was needed to deal with a volatile economic and political situation and that without such action, a
relapse into communist rule was a distinct possibility.

The situation for LARIS was made more complicated when the Federal Government imposed a new
requirement in the fall of 1994, after loan signing and approval, that participating Subjects of the
Federation (regional government) would have to assume a portion of the loan repayment obligations.

The combined impact of all these factors resulted in slow progress during the early years of
implementation. There were ten months between the loan signing and effectiveness, the first three
sub-loan agreements required with the participating Subjects of the Federation took over two years from
project effectiveness, and the remaining seven sub-loan agreements were not finalized until after the
original project closing date. Implementation progress and counterpart funding were frequently classified
as unsatisfactory prior to the mid term review. This five year project eventually ran for 8 years and 7
months, and was very successful for the last five years after the PDO was reformulated. This fact
supports the decision of the Bank to go forward with the Project despite the risks involved. However, at



                                                        - 3 -

the date of Board presentation it was clearly not ready for implementation and should be classed as
unsatisfactory for quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The PDO was reformulated during the MTR following legal changes that were outside the control of the
Project or the implementing agency. Up until this time, the local land committee offices had registered
approximately 40 million land rights and had successfully developed software for automating the
registration of these rights. Following adoption of the Law on Registration of Rights in Immovable
Property, those rights remain valid without further action required by the rights holder. However, when a
transaction occurs, registration of the new rights takes place in the registration offices set up under the
auspices of the Ministry of Justice. Information on existing rights and parcel boundaries from the local
land committee offices is utilized in this process.

The Project provided a major improvement in the cadastral mapping capabilities of Russia and in the
quality of the land cadastre. These are important supporting factors for operation of the land market.
Both the number of land transactions and the value of land tax payments (an indicator added during the
revision of the project objectives) increased strongly in regions included in the Project. (Data on output
and outcome indicators is provided in Annex 1.)

While the original intention of both the Bank and the implementing agency was to focus on agricultural
areas of the country, the lack of progress in liberalizing agricultural land markets combined with the much
higher value of land and greater level of market activity in non-rural areas meant that the Project took on
an increasingly cross-sectoral orientation. This was consistent with the principle of focusing on
economically more important locations and has become a standard feature of cadastre and registration
projects in the ECA region.

The Project was a major vehicle for building the institutional capacity of the State Land Committee and
subsequent restructurings of the SLC and facilitated an evolution in strategic thinking on land
administration matters within the Government. The outcome/ achievement of the project object is rated
satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Upgrading of land cadastre mapping. The project intended to establish 6 mapping enterprises capable
of producing digital mapping and to produce the necessary maps for the 100 rayons planned to be
covered by the project. The Bank loan financed aerial survey cameras, map production equipment, and
survey equipment. Funding to carry out aerial photography and perform associated field work was
financed by the budget of the Russian Federation and by budgets of participating regions. It was
envisaged that other clients would begin to order additional maps so that the enterprises would be
sustainable in the future. By the end of the Project, equipment had been delivered to 7 sites. The first
three enterprises (Moscow, Perm and Nizny Novgorod) were equiped in 1996-97 and were showing very
good results by 2002 as by this time they were effective enterprises producing excellent quality work and
with a full workload from paying clients. Clients were primarily regional and municipal government, the
utilities, Gazprom (the natural gas monopoly of Russia), and railways. The remaining enterprises in Omsk
(equipped in 2001), Khaborovsk, (equipped in 2002) Irkutsk and Saratov (equipped in 2003) are
strategically located to cover different parts of the country and were reported as operational on a
self-sustaining basis by the time of project closure. However, the missions did not have the opportunity to
visit them all to assess if they were as successful as the original three. It is a lengthy process to develop
capacity and a large clientele and this will continue for the newly equipped enterprises over the next few
years.

The project completed mapping for the 100 rayons although shifting its emphasis from rural land to urban
land during the course of the Project as noted above. The Project supplied mapping for 14,696 sheets at
1:2000 scale (SAR target was 11,600) and 5006 sheets at 1:10,000 scale (SAR target was 7,300). In
addition to the Federal budget, Subjects of the Federation and other customers funded another 8,239



                                                      - 4 -

sheets at 1:2,000 scale and 2,239 sheets at 1:10,000 scale. It should be noted that virtually all of this
production is accounted for by the first three enterprises to be supplied, as the other four entered the
Project too late to have a significant impact on these figures. Beyond the production figures, it is of more
importance that the 7 enterprises can supply whatever mapping is required in the country when needed.
The component is rated satisfactory, but would probably have been higher if not for the delay in
procurements that made it impossible for the more recently equipped mapping enterprises to demonstrate
their capacity (see Section 5.1 for a description of sources of delay in the procurement process).

Land Registration System. This component was the one affected by the change in the development
objectives. The Project had successfully developed registration procedures and software prior to losing
responsibility for registration of rights. The adoption of the Law on Registration in 1997 meant that the
original objective of creating a unified land cadastre and registration of rights system would not be
possible. The revised project objectives concentrated on creating a land cadastre (recording of land
parcels) and making this information available to the new system of registration of rights as well as to
other users. Offices were equipped with survey equipment, computer equipment, software, vehicles and
the necessary furniture and office equipment for functioning. Visits during supervision missions found
offices that were functioning efficiently and making maximum use of the resources provided. The
resources provided enabled the offices to work more quickly and to access records more quickly and
reliably than was possible before project implementation. An important issue was identified by
supervision missions and voiced by project participants at the Project Workshop held in Moscow in March
2002 as requiring additional attention in the future operation of the land cadastre. Equipment was
provided in batches from the Federal level without adequate consultation with the local level about what
was needed or most useful. This led to some small offices being oversupplied with equipment they could
not fully utilise (such as large servers) and undersupplied with equipment that they needed for their daily
work (such as survey equipment). Related to this, the system itself was built from a techical point of view
without adequate cost-benefit analysis or consideration of longer-term system maintenance and financing
requirements. In the view of the supervision missions, some of the smaller, lower-volume rayons that
were equipped by the Project probably did not generate incremental economic benefits from the
equipment to cover the incremental costs.

The project team contracted a number of studies in order to analyse practice and develop methodological
guidelines and regulations. Multiple copies were produced for distribution nationwide. These were
extremely valuable for the local and regional offices. The LARIS Project was a major part of a larger effort
undertaken by the Land Committee to modernize and improve the land cadastre in Russia. A number of
other donors were involved in this area, most notably Sweden, the EU, Germany, and Switzerland. The
Federal Cadastre Center and its affiliated regional cadastral centers also played an important role in
development of methodologies, procedures, and software for the local cadastre offices. particularly
following the shift in the PDO in February 1998.

It was anticipated that 3,000,000 land users would be included in the information system in the 100
rayons and this figure was exceeded by nearly 96,000. The SAR refers to providing equipment and
training to 'a maximum of an additional 400 rayons'. By the end of the project 281 rayon offices had been
equipped. Funds were available to expand the number of rayons substantially. However, procedures for
the inclusion of additional Subjects of the Federation in the Project were so cumbersome that this could
not be accomplished in the last years of the Project. The regions that were included were fully equipped,
but USD 6.5 million was cancelled from the loan as a result.

At the time of the revision of the project objectives at the mid-term review, development outcome
indicators were established for an increased level of land transactions at the rayon level following
implementation of the Project. Increases in land tax revenues in project rayons was also identified as an
important outcome indicator. Results in both of these areas have been good, however the impact of the
Project here is difficult to assess. For one thing, the Project counterparts were unable to provide a full set
of rayon data so as to compare trends before implemenation of the Project with what happened following
implementation. For another, these indicators, particularly the land transactions indicator, depend on
many factors beyond the control of the Project. It is clear, however, that LARIS allowed this activity to be
done more efficiently. This component is rated satisfactory, (based on the revised development



                                                      - 5 -

objective).

Institutional Development. This component is primarily concerned with training, and is considered by the
implementing agency as the most valuable part of the project. It was not affected as seriously by the
delays in procurement that impacted the other components, and underwent only minor adjusttments
following the change of the project objectives. The Project envisaged sending 250 staff members on
foreign training courses and 40 were to be specifically trained in digital mapping. In fact, during the
course of the Project 40 overseas study courses involving 1088 participants were carried out in 16
different countries. The courses provided the international perspective on best practice and included
direct contact with working systems in the countries concerned. The topics included land cadastre and
registration, digital mapping technologies, land valuation, and a broad set of other land administration and
land management topics.

Training centers were established within the LARIS project unit and in centers of the Subjects of the
Federation to provide technical and operational instruction. Two of these centers were visited during
project supervision and found to be well equipped and offering excellent training programs. The Project
also financed a broad program of training for land cadastre personnel nationwide. The domestic training
was conducted in Moscow and in regional locations throughout the country. A total of 1550 participants
were trained within Russia under the project, primarily in the regional centers but also on local contract
basis or at the LARIS Project Unit. Project staff participated in numerous seminars and conferences
which were held during the course of implementation as policies, procedures and operational guidelines
were developed and reports on project activity were reviewed. Evidence of the developmental implact of
the Project was in the changed orientation of the implementing agency with respect to questions of
cadastre, land management, and land markets during the life of the Project. Additional evidence of the
success of this component comes via the multiple visits to project sites made during supervision. In all
cases the missions found personnel that fully understood their functions and were performing them well.
Many of the new functions are very different to the ones they were accustomed to before project
commencement. The extent of the success of this component was made possible by the very high level
of education of Russian staff participating in the training programs. This component is rated highly
satisfactory.

Project Development Unit. A project development unit (PDU) was established (later legally reconstituted
and renamed the LARIS Center). Attached to this group were technical units responsible for the mapping
and registration system developments. These two units were responsible for preparing the technical
specifications for equipment and systems and ensuring that the delivery and implementation were
successful. They also conducted much of the training in the use of equipment under the Project. The main
PDU was established for overall supervision and to manage project accounts and supervision. Foreign
technical assistance was to be provided for both the PDU and the technical units.

Technical assistance to the PDU was hired, but not welcome, and the technical assistance envisaged for
the technical units was never put in place. After a year the contract for the technical assistance was
terminated and no further foreign technical assistance was hired.

More attention should have been devoted during project preparation to key project processing issues
such as procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation. In retrospect, the strategy of
addressing these weaknesses through a large TA intervention was not the way to go. The Bank's task
team underestimated the importance of the knowledge of the Russian language and overall familiarity
with the country for success of the intended TA. Furthermore, these interventions should have been more
targeted and tailored to specific issues, rather than using a full-time long-term contract for a team of
foreigners. For its part, the PDU appeared to have an a priori bias against integrating the foreign TA into
its day to day functions.

The PDU functioned extremely well in the technical areas of the Project. In the area of Project
administration it functioned reasonably well. A standard framework for the regular flow of information
from the regions to the Federal level and back down was never put in place, and the resulting monitoring
and reporting activity under the Project was sporadic and ad hoc. This stemmed from a lack of needed



                                                      - 6 -

emphasis from the Bank's side on monitoring and evaluation as well as a preoccupation with inputs rather
than outputs or outcomes by the PDU. Procurement was handled reasonably well, with the exception of a
case of misprocurement in 2000. This resulted from the failure to obtain three quotes for procurement
under procedures for International Shopping for a number of contracts during the late 1990's. A post
review of these contracts showed that prices paid were in line with market prices. Financial management
arrangements were standard for a project of this vintage. Cooperation with supervision missions was
excellent.

Operation of the PDU would have been better if the Land Committee had taken a more active role in
oversight of the unit and in coordination of its activities with other bodies. The PDU's work was not well
coordinated with the activity of the Federal Cadastre Center, particularly in the first half of project
implementation. The PDU also failed to get adequate support or feedback from the Land Committee on
project related issues. This situation improved after the signing of a tri-partite agreement between the
PDU (LARIS Center), the Federal Cadastre Service of Russia (the postcedent to the State Land
Committee), and the Ministry of Finance in October 2000. By the end of the Project, inter-agency
relations had improved noticeably.

LARIS was rated as unsatisfactory for implementation progress in 1995/96 due to delays in effectiveness,
and from late 1998 to 2000 due to delays in finalizing sub-loan agreements with participating Subjects of
the Federation. It was rated unsatisfactory for devlopment objectives in 1997 related to the shifting legal
and regulatory framework for registration of rights in land and the adoption by Parliament of a retrograde
Land Code. Following revision of the project objectives in February 1998 and veto of the Land Code by
the President, the Project was rated satisfactory for development objectives for the rest of
implementation. Overall the component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project description identified enhanced economic activity, increased agricultural productivity and
improved land use decisions (including development of land markets) as economic benefits of the project.
There was no calculation for a net present value or economic rate of return in the SAR. The SAR refers to
the main benefit as the provision of the basic infrastructure necessary to permit the land market to
operate. Thus sales, mortgages, leases and other transactions could occur with reliability once the
system was in place. The project has provided some security as envisaged and land transactions have
increased markedly. (See Annex 1). However, this is probably due more to the improved economic
environment and understanding by the people that ownership brings with it the right to transact.

It was intended at the time of appraisal to establish a `fee for service' regime such that the local land
committee offices could cover the costs associated with registration. When the Law on Registration was
adopted and the Land Committee became responsible only for recording land parcels, this objective
became less viable. The Government also directed that the Land Committee could not collect fees for
service because they were Federally financed agency. However, the mapping enterprises operate
independent of government budgeting and have successfully managed to be self-supporting.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated for the SAR. However, the Project has had a financial impact
through facilitating increased land tax revenues. The extent to which LARIS contributed is difficult to pin
down as data are not available for non-project regions or for project regions prior to their inclusion in
LARIS. From the figures available for the project sites, the income from land taxes has almost doubled
between 2000 and 2002, making an increase in income of approximately 1 billion rubles per year (about
US$35 million per year). (More details on the financial impact of the Project are available in the LARIS
Center's Project Implementation Report.)

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The State Land Committee went through a number of reorganizations during implementation, but
managed to maintain a core of management, staffing, and operational mandate that corresponded to the
needs of the Project. For the last years of the implementation, the name of the counterpart agency was



                                                       - 7 -

the Federal Cadastre Service of Russia (Roszemkadastr). LARIS contributed to Roszemkadastr's ability
to provide the services mandated of it in a sustainable manner. It has also facilitated the evolution of
thinking on land management and land administration in Russia through the program of foreign training
and contact with foreign counterparts and models. Perspectives on these questions are now much more
in line with good international practice than they were at the beginning of project implementation. The
program of domestic training allowed the revised approaches to be implemented at the regional and local
levels.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
LARIS financed a substantial amount of computer and digital mapping systems that were challenging
from the point of view of Bank procurement guidelines. The Bank did not (and still does not) have an
adequate methodology for tendering and evaluating complex systems where it is difficult to specify a
priori the best combination of hardware and software for the task. While the use of ICB did result in cost
savings for procured items, the delays encountered in adhering to the Bank's procedures for IT
procurement were substantial and led to frustration among the project counterparts. The time required for
ICB procurement of most of the large value contracts was a minimum of one year and could exceed 18
months. On top of this, the high-profile nature of large-value IT contracts for Russia in the 1990's meant
that competing firms were extremely vigilant in tracking these tenders. On a number of occasions
implementation of the Project was held up when firms lodged complaints about the results of the
evaluation of proposals.    Taken together, these factors wound up imposing a cost on the Project, as the
hardware and software supplied might no longer be the industry standards by the time they were
delivered.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) During the first few years of the Project the government did not have a consistent land policy. There
was no consensus on the principle of private ownership of agricultural land or on the right to freely
dispose of property owned. In the mid-1990's the Russian Parliament was not disposed to take a
market-oriented approach to these questions. It was not until 2002 (7 years after the project began) that a
suitable Land Code and law on Agricultural Land Turnover were passed. As a result, the original intention
of focusing on agricultural areas had to be reoriented to non-agricultural areas.
(ii) As noted above, the adoption of the Law on Registration significantly impacted the Project. This
decision was contrary to an existing Presidential Decree giving the responsibility for registration of rights
in land to the Land Committee and undermined the ability of the project to meet its original development
objectives.
(iii) There were continual problems and delays in trying to finalize sub-loan agreements between the
Ministry of Finance and potential participating Subjects of the Federation. This created substantial delays
in project implementation, contributing in large measure to the need to extend the Project, and eventually
to cancellation of a portion of the loan.
(iv) From a development perspective it would have been preferable for those Subjects of the Federation
that were poorer to benefit from the Project, but Ministry of Finance insistence (in accordance with Article
290 of the Budget Code of the Russian Federation) that only those regions that were not in arrears to the
Federal budget could be included reduced the potential benefits.
(v) The project suffered from a lack of counterpart funds in the early years of implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project would have benefited if the Land Committee had taken a more active role in coordination: (a)
among the LARIS Center and other organizations affiliated with the Land Committee and involved with
project related issues, in particular the Federal Cadastre Center; and (b) of project processing issues
such as relations with the Ministry of Finance, timely action on procurement evaluation, and coordination
with the participating regions. As noted above, this situation improved in the latter part of implementation
and for the Project as a whole the efforts of the Land Committee, and later Roszemkadastr, were
adequate for the purposes of meeting project outputs.




                                                      - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal total project cost over five years was estimated at US$115 million. This was to be financed
by an IBRD loan of US$80 million, and US$35 million from the budget of the Russian Federation.
Sub-loan agreements between the Russian Federation and the ten Subjects of the Federation had to be
agreed and signed prior to use of project funds within those territories. The actual project cost was
approximately US$110 million, of which US$72.5 million was from proceeds of the IBRD loan and
US$38.5 million from the budget of the Russian Federation (see Annex 2). US$6.5 million from the loan
was cancelled in the last months of the Project because delays to proposed tenders made it impossible to
disburse the funds. Substantial cost savings occurred in the purchase of equipment over the period
because of the general decrease in cost of computers and survey equipment between project appraisal
and procurement of these items.

The project budget contained in the SAR did not include expenditures for carrying out the aerial
photography and associated field work. This is why the contribution from the Federal budget was slightly
higher than estimated at appraisal though the expenditures from the loan wound up being smaller than
appraisal estimates. This is also why the actual costs of the land cadastre mapping component overran
appraisal estimates by 28 percent. On the other hand, savings in IT costs and the inability to supply the
full number of rayons estimated at appraisal (due to restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Finance on
eligibility of regions to participate in the Project) resulted in significant cost savings in the land registration
component. Expenditures under the institutional development component were roughly double the
appraisal estimates, reflecting the more intensive programs of foreign and domestic training compared
with plans at appraisal.

As noted above, the Project was extended by 3.5 years. Numerous factors contributed to this and
included deficiencies in project preparation, initial lack of familiarity with Bank procedures by the
Borrower, ex post establishment of eligibility criteria for participating Subjects of the Federation and the
long delays in getting sub-loan agreements signed with participating Subjects, and delays associated with
ICB procurement of relatively complex IT systems.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely. Full government funding may be doubtful at times, but the service
provided by the implementing agency is vital for local government financing through collection of land
taxes and as a basis for the land market. It is inconceivable that the work done will be unutilised in the
future even allowing for changes in government structures. In the Government restructuring carried out in
March 2004, the Federal Land Cadastre Service has been converted to the Federal Agency for
Immovable Property Cadastre under the authority of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade.
In the process, the role of the implementing agency has been enhanced because in its new form it is
responsible not only for land records, but for records on buildings as well. Furthermore, the new Cadastre
Agency will be allowed to collect fees for service to at least partially cover its financing requirements. It is
likely that an alternative strategy will need to be developed for automation of operations in the more
remote, lower volume rayons, possibly through aggregation of these functions at a higher level, as the
costs of maintaining and renewing even basic automation systems in these locations does not appear to
be justified by the incremental economic benefits and will be a considerable drag on the likely budget
allocations for the Agency.

Based on available information, the new mapping enterprises are functioning well and are financially
sustainable, though detailed financial statements from the enterprises were not made available. With the
trend of solid economic growth in Russia, demand for the services of these enterprises is likely to
increase. Management of these enterprises continues to be dominated by technical specialists. Infusion
of professional business management could likely improve their performance further. The Government
should look carefully at the option of privatizing these enterprises as part of the ongoing economic
restructuring.




                                                        - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has been effected smoothly. The Project primarily provided basic
infrastructure (equipment, training and regulatory documents) that would enable the Borrower to operate
using their existing staff. This has been achieved both for the Land Committee/Roszemkadastr and its
regional and local offices, and for the mapping enterprises. The next stage in development, that is crucial
for Russia, is to focus on simplifying the process of conducting economic transactions in land and real
estate, in particular by rationalizing the process of registration of rights. The Project has successfully
helped to build a basic registration of land parcels, but integration of the data on buildings and quicker,
more reliable linkage with the legal data are still required. Russia has one of the slowest and most
expensive systems of registration found anywhere and this severely hampers the property market, which
is an important element of economic development. Further assistance is necessary, but this will require
coordination or integration with the Ministry of Justice and a focus on client service and client needs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
LARIS was consistent with the priorities of the Russian Federation and the Bank's CAS, both of which had
a strong emphasis on market oriented reforms and development of human resources and skills, which
were strongly supported by the original objectives and design of this Project. At the sectoral level, there
were a series of initiatives and projects designed towards the development of the basic public
infrastructure and LARIS was well designed to push forward the progress reached in land reform,
including the privatization of land and the issuance of land certificates to individuals and companies. The
Bank provided a number of highly qualified specialists to help the Government prepare the Project in a
field that was very new and ill-understood by the Government at that time. The project design is quite
simple, involving the creation of enterprises to perform basic mapping functions, development of a
registration system and the training required to implement the program. The project preparation team
made an effort to base the design of the Project on the priorities and capacities of the counterpart agency.
The technical quality of the SAR was good.

The financial package was well calculated and risks properly assessed. However, the Project went ahead
despite recognizing the risks ­ in particular such statements in the SAR as: "the entire area of property
rights in land remains contentious within the Russian Federation"; and "The ongoing contention over
national land policy is reflected in uncertain institutional arrangements", together with the recognition that
there was no law on registration to underpin the objectives of the Project. This is particularly noticeable as
the section in the SAR that referred to experiences in land projects in other countries identified "lack of
political support" and "conflicting bureaucratic priorities and/ or infighting" as key factors that contributed
to the poor performance. The Bank's project preparation effort was weak in the operational areas, such
as procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation. Given the inexperience of the Borrower in
these areas, more time should have been devoted to preparation.

This five year project over-ran by three and a half years. If LARIS had started three years later using the
revised PDO developed during the mid-term review, it would have been highly successful, as much of the
time in the three and a half years between board approval and the mid-term review was wasted. As it
stands, the Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project is rated
unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
In the first two years of implementation, the Government had great difficulty providing counterpart funds
and had great trouble in finalizing the first round of sub-loan agreements. The supervision teams rated the
project unsatisfactory with respect to implementation progress in 1995/96 reflecting delays in
effectiveness and with respect to the development objectives in 1997 when Parliament had passed a
retrograde Land Code (which was subsequently vetoed by the President) and the Law on Registration
was being debated and adopted. The problems were identified and requests to the Government to solve
the problems were made. Once the Land Code issue was favorably resolved and the Law on Registration
was passed, the supervision team immediately reviewed the situation and changed the PDO to something



                                                      - 10 -

that was both achievable and beneficial. There seems little more the supervision team could have done in
the period between 1995 and 1998 to move the project forward, as the problems were primarily related to
government inaction, and to procurement delays for the high value ICB contracts, which were identified
and reported. The successes since the mid-term review and subsequent success in the components
performance are a credit to the LARIS Center, the implementing agency, and the supervision of this
project. Knowledge of Russia and Russian by the task team was a plus, as was the consistency of the
core task team. Decentralization of procurement and financial management functions to the Moscow
office worked well for this Project. Supervision is rated highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Project should not have been approved at the time of Board presentation because the Government
was not ready, a complete basis for implementation was not in place, and this was a risky undertaking
given the lack of full legal and institutional resolution. However, having approved the Project the Bank
was pragmatic in agreeing with the Borrower on an adjusted development objective, working carefully and
patiently with counterparts on project related issues, and extending the project to ensure that a very
useful final result was achieved. Overall the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The authorities provided competent
and experienced staff who helped to develop a clear project proposal in cooperation with a large team of
Bank consultants.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. LARIS was implemented during some
of the most challenging years of the transition process for Russia. This had a negative impact on the
Project. There was little consistency in land policy matters until relatively late in the life of the Project
when a Law on Cadastre (2000) and Law on Agricultural Land Turnover (2002) were adopted. Even with
adoption of the Law on Registration of Rights in 1997, institutional issues remained unresolved on
recordation of immovable property and linking of this to rights registration, some of which continue to this
day. Procedures for bringing Subjects of the Federation into the Project were cumbersome, not clearly
defined, and time consuming. Following the first round of implementation, when three oblasts were
included, the Bank team assumed that the process had been worked through, and the second and
subsequent rounds of implemenation would go significantly smoother. However, this was not the case.
Inclusion of the second round of Subjects of the Federation turned out to be even more difficult and time
consuming than the first. Clear rules of interaction among the Ministry of Finance, the Land Committee,
and the LARIS Center were put in place only in the latter half of 2000 as part of the conditions for
extension of the original closing date.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation performance of the State Land Committee/Roszemkadastre is rated satisfactory.
The implementing agency exhibited commitment to the Project, and made good use of the equipment,
training, studies and methodological guidelines developed. Cooperation with supervision missions was
consistently good. Performance was weak in terms of coordination between LARIS and activities of other
affiliated organizations, such as the Federal Cadastre Service, particularly in the first half of the Project's
life. Roszemkadastr and its predecessor agencies should have made greater effort to incorporate
information from the regional level into decisions about purchase and delivery of equipment. Greater
intervention into implementation issues that arose between the LARIS Center and the Ministry of Finance
prior to the autumn of 2000 would have been very useful for the Project. (See section 4.2 for a
description of the performance of the PDU/LARIS Center.)

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.




                                                       - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

In many ways Russia is unique and certainly dissimilar to countries the Bank normally assists. They have
a level of technical expertise equivalent to anything found anywhere in the world. The greatest successes
of LARIS came about through a well designed and delivered training program, much of it abroad, that
gave highly qualified experts insights into the practices in modern systems, procedures and technologies
used in successful economies. With this training as a background the Project showed that regulatory
frameworks could be developed 'in-house' and the simple delivery of technology could have a big impact
on the efficency of the public service and the creation of viable mapping enterprises. This is not typical
for many countries with which the Bank works, but in the right situation is justifiable.

However, working with a large country produces it's difficulties. In small countries it is possible for
projects to use their influence to affect policy and institutional structures. This has not really been
possible here. The institutional structures for the registration of property rights are more complicated now
than they were when the Project started and transactions are, as a result, more difficult and expensive.
Whereas it has been successful in smaller countries for projects to influence fundamental land policy,
institutional and legal improvements (such as Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Estonia), the only effective influence
in Russia has been with the regulatory and procedural framework. Influence on land policy and
fundamental law needs to be addressed at a higher level and should probably be in place prior to project
appraisal. There may have been undue influence to 'get projects to the Board' in Russia, while ignoring
the negative lessons learnt in other projects, which were identified in the SAR, relating to institutional
infighting and government commitment.

A very positive lesson comes from the patience and flexibility exhibited by the Bank during the course of
this Project. In the first three years following Board approval, there were many problems relating to
fundamental issues of institutional responsibility, law, land policy, government counterpart funding, slow
procurement and sub-loan agreements with Subjects of the Federation. When the issues were resolved,
a revised PDO was quickly developed and project activity improved significantly. The Bank then agreed
to substantial extensions that resulted in a very credible end result of the Project.

Requirements for participation of regions in projects need to be spelled out and agreed prior to Board
presentation.

Practical solutions need to be found to the procurement of complex information systems for Bank
projects. The experience of LARIS shows that existing procedures were too time consuming and and as
a result imposed significant costs on the Borrower.

Roszemkadastr and its predecessor agencies had a tendency to decide the equipment needs of the
regions and districts and deliver them without getting feedback from the recipients about what they really
needed. When working at a headquarters and planning it is necessary to make some assumptions, but
when actually purchasing it is necessary to make visits, assess the situation and 'wish-list' of the local
offices and then make judgements accordingly. The delivery of standard packages led to local offices
having too much of some items and not enough of others.

The revised development objectives focused on cadastre for providing the basic information about land
parcels and the valuation and recording of all land parcels for tax purposes. The impact of an efficient
and equitable cadastre system for land taxes has a huge and fundamental benefit. It provides the funds
necessary for local government to operate and give the necessary social infrastructure and support to
local communities. The investments in technology and creation of the cadastre record are paid back
within a few years.

While the Project was able to strengthen the land cadastre in Russia and ensure that information from
the cadastre could be used by the system of registration of rights, it is clear that having multiple agencies
responsible for various aspects of transactions in land and real estate is inefficient and creates problems,
expense and time delays for market participants, thus discouraging economic development. A single
agency would be far preferable. Also, with the modernized land cadastre now well established, increasing



                                                     - 12 -

attention needs to be given to improving the quality of customer service and and to the longer-term
financing of system maintenance and upgrading.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   The following is a translation of the letter received from the Ministry of Finance:

                                                                                                  June 1, 2004
                                                                                                26-03-09/2174
                                                                                         ECCU1-2004-00286

   Mr. E. Cook
   Task Leader for LARIS Project
   Moscow Country Office
   World Bank


   Dear Mr. Cook,


        In connection with the World Bank letter dated April 22, 2004 No. ECCU1-2004-00214 regarding
   the Implementation Completion Report for the Land Reform Implementation Support Project (LARIS),
   please be informed that we have no fundamental objections to the language of this Report.

        We positively assess the results achieved in the course of LARIS implementation.

        The implementation of this project in the Russian Federation helped introduce the automatic public
   land cadastre systems, registration of lands and immovable property located thereon, make an efficient
   use of the products made by cadastral mapping enterprises, greatly enhance the effectiveness of land
   committees in the participating subjects of the Russian Federation. The introduction of the automatic
   land cadastre system has contributed to the formation and operation of the land and immovable property
   market, provision of individuals and legal entities with guaranteed rights for land and improvable
   property.

        In general, the submitted Implementation Completion Report for LARIS is in line with the MOF
   position regarding the outcomes of the project and reflects the objective situation. [This is followed by
   specific suggestions on changes in the text of the ICR, many of which have been incorporated. A
   major substantive disagreement included in these detailed comments is that the Ministry of Finance
   does not agree with the description of the requirements for participation of Subjects of the Federation
   in the Project as having been restrictive.]

    A.V. Pavlov
    Deputy Head
    The Department for International Cooperation and External Debt Management
    The Ministry of Finance




                                                      - 13 -

The following is a translation of the letter received from the implementing agency:


                                                                                                May 25, 2004
                                                                                                       No. 40
                                                                                       ECC10-N-2004-00261




Mr. E. Cook
LARIS Task Team Leader
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development


LARIS Implementation Completion Report


Dear Mr. Cook


         Upon making a careful review of the draft LARIS implementation completion report prepared by
you on April 22, 2004, the Federal Agency for Cadastre of Immovable Property, being an assignee of the
Federal Cadastre Service of Russia, believes that this report correctly reflects the outcomes of the project
and does not need a correction. While the LARIS Project implementation has been delayed, it made a
positive impact on the progress of land reform in Russia. The report addresses the issues that have been
arising during project implementation. The resolution of these issues and findings set forth in the report
should be used in further work of the Agency with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.




V.S. Kislov
Acting Deputy Head



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

In addition to the comments in Section 9, a Project Implementation Report (PIR) has been prepared by
the LARIS Center describing the history and results of the Project. A summary of the Report is provided
in Annex 8. The full text of the PIR is available in Russian through IRIS.




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Government adoption of legislation and         Data not entered in table.         The government has adopted registration,
statutes in support of private property rights                                    cadastre, mortgage and other laws and
in land.                                                                          regulations that support private property
                                                                                  rights and transactions. However, the
                                                                                  regulations and procedures for transactions
                                                                                  are still overly complicated.
                                               Data not entered in table.         100% issued
Issuance of titles to 95 percent of land
owners within the project rayons.
Incorporation of 20 percent of total land      Data not entered in table.         100% entered into the databases (2.5 million
parcels in the automated                                                          records), thus the average of 20% per annum
cadastral/registration databases at the rayon                                     can be considered to be achieved.
level for each year of operation of the rayon
offices.
Demonstration of a successful automated        Data not entered in table.         System operational nationally.
cadastre system for application beyond the
project rayons.
Increased sale and lease transactions in land Data not entered in table.          Uniformly high annual percentage increases
at the rayon level in comparison with levels in                                   in all offices ranging from a few percent to
the year prior to system implementation.                                          300%, but very variable. Detailed data
                                                                                  presented in annex 8.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
6 new mapping enterprises established and      Data not entered in table.         7 successfully operational enterprises
operational with unified data formats and                                         established.
standards.
Production of 7300 map sheets at 1:10,000      Data not entered in table.         5006 map sheets at 1:10,000 scale and
scale and 11,600 map sheets at 1:2,000                                            14,696 map sheets at 1:2,000 scale.
scale.
100 rayon offices fully equipped within 10     Data not entered in table.         281 rayon offices fully equipped within 10
Oblasts                                                                           Oblasts.
290 participants in foreign training and 1470 Data not entered in table.          1088 particpants in foreign training and 1555
particpants in local training.                                                    particpants in local training.

1End of project




                                                                 - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Land Cadastre Mapping                                       55.74           71.42              128
Land Registration System                                    49.53           25.39               51
Institutional Development                                    4.87             9.93             204
Project Development Unit                                     4.86             4.29              88

Total Baseline Cost                                        115.00          111.03
                         Total Project Costs               115.00          111.03
                   Total Financing Required                115.00          111.03


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          1.40          1.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          69.80             0.00         1.00          0.00         70.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         9.20          0.00          9.20
and Training                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Import Duty                     0.00             0.00         0.00          10.62        10.62
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.00          22.98        22.98
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          69.80             0.00        10.20          35.00        115.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          70.51            0.00         1.90           0.00        72.41
                                 (59.71)          (0.00)       (1.66)         (0.00)       (61.37)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00        11.71           0.00        11.71
and Training                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (10.73)         (0.00)       (10.73)
4. Import Duty                     0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)


                                                - 16 -

   5. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              2.79             0.00              2.79
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (0.38)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             24.12            24.12
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                70.51              0.00             16.40             24.12            111.03
                                           (59.71)            (0.00)           (12.77)            (0.00)           (72.48)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Land Cadastre Mapping          38.18        17.57                    43.03         28.38                 112.7    161.5
Land Registration System       32.51        17.02                    18.33         7.05                  56.4      41.4
Institutional Development       4.87                                  9.23         0.70                  189.5
Project Development Unit        4.49         0.41                     1.88         2.41                  41.9     587.8




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic analysis was not prepared at the time of appraisal.




                                                 - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/15/1993                6    CADASTRE (2); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             REGISTRATION (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              6/30/1993                 3    CADASTRE (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/15/1993                5    CADASTRE (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              5/12/1994                 5    TASK MANAGER (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); LAWYER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)

 Supervision
              09/30/1994                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             CADASTRE (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

              11/15/1994                5
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CADASTRE (1);
                                             PROCURMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (2)

              05/31/1995                3    MAPPING (1); TASK                U               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             REGISTRATION (1)

              11/03/1995                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)

              07/05/1996                2    MISSION LEADER (1); RES.
                                             MISSION OFFICER (1)


              11/25/1996                3    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); RES.
                                             MISSION OFFICER




                                              - 19 -

04/30/1997    2 MISSION LEADER (1); RES.     S    U
                MISSION OFFICER (1)
10/18/1997    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    U
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                REGISTRATION SPEC. (1)
02/26/1998    5 MISSION LEADER (1); LAND     S    S
                CADASTRE (1);
                REGISTRATION SYSTEMS
                (1); OPERATIONS
                SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)
07/20/1998    3 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                CADASTRAL/REG. SPEC. (1);
                PROJECT OFFICER (1)
12/14/1998    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          U    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1); IT
                SPECIALIST (1)
02/18/2000    2 TEAM LEADER (1);             U    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
02/24/2001    2 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
07/11/2001    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1)
11/19/2001    2 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
03/15/2002    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                CADASTRE/REGISTRATION
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1)
07/13/2002    4 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                CADASTRE SPECIALIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SOCIOLOGIST (1)
10/28/2002    5 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                REGISTRATION/CADASTRE
                (1); QUALITY CONTROL (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1)
03/05/2003    5 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                REGISTRATION/CADASTRE
                (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1)
07/03/2003    4 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                REGISTRATION/CADASTRE
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
10/25/2003    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                REGISTRATION AND CADAS




                - 20 -

                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1)
               10/25/2003              3   MISSION LEADDER (1);               S    S
                                           REGISTRATION AND CADAS
                                           (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                           (1)


 ICR
               03/02/2004             2     MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                            REGISTRATION AND
                                            CADAS



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
   Macro policies                        H       SU    M       N     NA
   Sector Policies                       H       SU    M       N     NA
   Physical                              H       SU    M       N     NA
   Financial                             H       SU    M       N     NA
   Institutional Development             H       SU    M       N     NA
   Environmental                         H       SU    M       N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H       SU    M       N     NA
            Gender                       H       SU    M       N     NA
            Other (Please specify)       H       SU    M       N     NA
   Private sector development            H       SU    M       N     NA
   Public sector management              H       SU    M       N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                H       SU    M       N     NA
Environmental is rated 'M', because the completion of cadastre mapping has made it possible to monitor
land use (and misuse) more efficently, but it is a byproduct of the project.
Povert reduction is rated 'M' because the income derived to local government through land taxes enable it to
provide better services to the public - including social safety.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 12711-RU)
2. Loan Agreement (No. 3756 RU)
3. Project Implementation Report (in Russian, prepared by the LARIS PIU)
4. Project Supervision Reports
5. Mission Aide Memoires




                                                 - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary Section of Project Implementation Report (prepared by the
LARIS PIU)


                                                REPORT

                  ON LAND REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

                                     (PROJECT LARIS, 1995-2003)

                                               (abridgment)

                                               CONTENTS



 1. Project LARIS general information                                                 2
    1.1. Project objectives.                                                          2
    1.2. Project structure.                                                           2
    1.3. Main documents, defining the status of LARIS Project.                        3
    1.4. The procedure of LARIS project financing.                                    3
    1.5. Control and reporting in the framework of LARIS project implementation       5

 2. Main results of Project implementation                                            6
    2.1.    Purchases on the international and domestic markets                       6
    2.2. Results of the Project implementation on component A                         7
    2.3. Results of the Project implementation on component ·                         8
    2.3. Results of the Project implementation on component C                         8
    2.4. Results of production activity.                                             10
    2.5. Indirect results.                                                           12

 3. Execution of the Project                                                         12




                                                 - 25 -

1. Project LARIS general information

Project LARIS - LAnd Reform Implementation Support project.

Project LARIS is functioning in accordance with the Agreement (hereinafter - Loan Agreement) between
the Russian Federation (RF) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (INRD) on
the loan for financing the project for support of land reform implementation, concluded on June 22,
1994 (loan No. 3756 RU).

The draft of the Agreement was authorized by the Enactment of the Government of the Russian
Federation on June 18, 1994, No. 698. The said Agreement was approved by the Enactment of the
Government of the Russian Federation on December 1, 1994, No. 1327.

The Project was intended for implementation during the period from 1995 till 2000. By mutual
agreement between the Ministry of Finance of RF and IBRD the Project was prolonged first up to
March 31, 2002 and later - up to December 31, 2003.

The total amount of the Project's fund is 115 million US dollars, from it the funds of the loan is 80
million US dollars and the funds of co-financing from the Russian side is 35 million UD dollars.



1.1. Project objectives.


The main objective of the Project is the acceleration of the process of the land reform implementation
due to the introduction of land registration system as the state system, which will be the base of land
market development, of acceptance of private property right to land and will be the information base for
land resource management.

Introduction of the Project lays down the foundation for development of market relations in the sphere of
land relations, allowing to organize the civilized purchase and sale of land, lease of land as well as using
it as a collateral. Land registration system is the base for the implementation of fair land taxation.



1.2. Project structure.


Project LARIS includes three main components:

         Component A: introduction of digital cadastre technologies. It is implemented in approximately
                            six enterprises of Goszemcadasters'emka;

         Component B: creation of automated system of land registration. It is implemented
                            approximately 100 districts of 10 constituent entities of the Federation;

         Component C: institutional development.




                                                  - 26 -

1.3. Main documents, defining the status of LARIS Project.


In accordance with the text of Loan Agreement "... Committee on land resources and land use
management (Roscomzem) and any its successor will be responsible for the supervision for Project
implementation ...", and "... Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for coordination and
management of all aspects of the Project implementation as well as will coordinate all work, which
concerns the development of budget, purchases, payments, auditing, reporting, monitoring and
assessment for the Project ...".

PIU was created by the order of Roscomzem No. 27 dated April 21, 1994 as a structural subdivision of
the Russian center on scientific support to land reform (RosNIC "Zemlia").

For the purpose of the Project implementation in the structure of RosNIC "Zemlia" by the order of
Roscomzem No. 24 dated March 23, 1995 the Central group of implementation of system of registration
of rights to land and real estate (CGI-R) and the Central group of development of cadastre technologies
(CGD-T) were created, and the Central group of implementation of cadastre technologies (CGI-T) was
created in the structure of Roszemcadasters'emka.

By the order of Roscomzem No. 9 dated February 6, 1996 the unitary federal state enterprise "Center
for Project LARIS implementation" was created, based on PIU, CGI-T and CGD-T subdivisions of
RosNIC "Zemlia", it was registered by Moscow registration chamber on March 28, 1996 (registration
number 60446) and it was authorized with the functions of the Project management.

In accordance with the arrangements between Roszemcadaster, Ministry of Finance of Russia and IBRD
the functions of the Project management were transferred to the autonomous non-commercial
organization "Registration Cadastre Project". (The IBRD letter ECC10-N-2003-00426 dated August 7,
2003, signed by the Ministry of Finance of Russia on September 30, 2003.)

In accordance with the Loan Agreement in the Constituent entities of the Federation the regional groups
for Project implementation (RPIU) were created at the regional land committees. At the first phase of the
Project three regions were participated: Nizhny Novgorod, Perm and Samara regions. Further,
Arkhangelsk, Kalinigrad, Leningrad, Novosibirsk, Omsk and Smolensk regions as well as the Republic
of Mordovia were included as participants of the Project.

Entering the project implementation, each region took responsibility on financing the project, on
repayments of a part of the Loan as well as on conducting a number of organizational measures, which
are negotiated in the triangular agreement, signed by the Ministry of Finance, Roszemcadaster and the
regional Administration.

1.4. The procedure of LARIS project financing.

The financing of the project was conducted from the following sources:

·    Loan funds, totaling 80 million US dollars;
·    funds of the Russian Federation, which are summed up from the federal budget and the budgets of
regions, participating in the project implementation.




                                                 - 27 -

The Loan funds were spent by the three possible schemes:

·    direct payments from IBRD to the companies, with which the contracts were concluded on the
project program;
·    payments for the contracts by letters of credit;
·    payments from the Special account. In accordance with the rules of IBRD the Special account
should be opened in a commercial bank, which is selected by the tender.

The Loan funds, being spent for financing the main categories of logistics, are shown below.



Category                                                Sum of distributed Loan in US
                                                        dollars
Component ·                                            32 000 000

Component ·                                            28 000 000

Component C                                            8 000 000

Not distributed                                         12 000 000

TOTAL                                                   80 000 000



In accordance with the amendments to the Loan Agreement the scheme of funds distribution was
changed and it is given below.



Category                                                Sum of distributed Loan in US
                                                        dollars
Component ·                                             43 000 000

Component ·                                             18 400 000

Component C                                             10 800 000

Operating costs                                          500 000

Not distributed                                         1 000 000

TOTAL                                                   73 700 000

Financing from the federal budget was being conducted in accordance with the annual request, which
was submitted to the Ministry of Finance of Russia by the LARIS Center on June 1 of the previous year
for inclusion in the budget draft. After budget approval LARIS Center submitted to the Ministry of
Finance of Russia the Estimates of expenses to the next year, approved by Roszemcadaster. The basis
for the preparation of the Estimates is the Program of the Project implementation for the next year.




                                                 - 28 -

Every month LARIS Center submitted to the Ministry of Finance the request for the project financing
for the next month. The funds of the federal budget in accordance with the monthly request for the
project financing were wired to Roszemcadaster account and then wired to the LARIS Center account
for the Project.

The procedure of financing was defined by the triangular Agreement on LARIS project implementation
between the Ministry of Finance of RF, Roszemcadaster and LARIS Center No. 01-01-06/27-652 dated
October 31, 2000.

The return of the Loan funds in accordance with the conditions of the triangular agreement between the
Ministry of Finance of RF, Roszemcadaster and Administration of the constituent entity of the
Federation (the agreement of sub loan) is being conducted at the expense of the funds, incoming from the
collection of payments for land and centralized in the federal budget and budgets of the constituent
entities of the Russian Federation, participating in the Project implementation.

The date of the main debt return is every April 1 and October 1, beginning since October 1, 1999 until
October1, 2003 (the sum is US $ 3 335 000), since April 1, 2004 until October 1, 2010 (the sum is US
$ 2 914 600) and on April 1, 2011 (the sum is US $ 2 880 600).

The date of debt return to the Ministry of Finance of Russia on sub loans to the constituent entities of
the Federation - every March 1 and September 1, beginning since September 1, 1999, for the constituent
entities of RF, joined the Project before 1999, September 1 of the next year after signing the agreement
of the sub loan for the constituent entity of the Federation, which is just joined the Project. The return
payments are ending on March 1, 2011, the sum is defined in accordance with the sub loan agreements.

1.5. Control and reporting in the framework of LARIS project implementation

In accordance with the Loan Agreement Roszemcadaster is responsible as a whole for the introduction
of the Project.

LARIS Center was conducting the coordination, management and realization of works on the Project
implementation. The director of LARIS Center carries the personal responsibility to the Head of
Roszemcadaster for the Project implementation.

The body of Roszemcadaster, responsible for the control and resource provision for the LARIS project
implementation on the territory of the constituent entity of the Russian Federation, is the corresponding
Committee on land resources and land use management, the chairman of which was carrying the
personal responsibility for the Project implementation on the territory of this constituent entity of the
Federation.

Everyday activity on the LARIS project implementation on the territory of the constituent entity of the
Federation was entrusted to the LARIS Project Implementation Unit of the constituent entity of the
Federation (PIU-LARIS).

For the purposes of conducting control over the Project implementation LARIS Center submitted to the
Ministry of Finance of RF, to Roszemcadaster, to the Ministry of Economics and Trade of Russia and
to the Federal Centre of Project Financing the following bookkeeping information:

          1. The report on the pace of the Project implementation for the month in accordance with "The


                                                  - 29 -

             procedure of reporting for groups of project preparation and implementation and
             borrowers on the project, financed at the expense of the funs of IBRD and EBRD loans"
             dated October 21, 1996, approved by the Ministry of Economics and Trade of Russia and
             by the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation on the basis of the Enactment of the
             Government of the Russian Federation dated April 3, 1996, No. 395 "On approval of the
             Procedure of work with the projects, financed at the expense of IBRD loans".

         2. The protocol and the report on the performed works of LARIS Project for the quarter in
             accordance with the Program and Estimate of LARIS Project implementation, being the
             integral part of the Agreement No. 1 dated April 30, 1998 on the performing works on
             LARIS project implementation between Roszemcadaster and LARIS Center.

         3. The report on using the estimate of expenses for budget organizations by the form 2,
             approved by the Ministry of Finance of RF, as the report for the year and the quarter.

         4. Auditing report on using the loan funds and the federal budget as a result of the annual
             auditing, being conducted by an independent audit firm, coordinated with IBRD and the
             Ministry of Finance OF Russia.

         5. Accounting balance as a result of conducting bookkeeping and preparing bookkeeping
             report in accordance with the requirements and rules of the Russian Federation and IBRD.

         6. Certificate 1Q (certificate on the pace of funds using) and Certificate 2Q (description of the
             pace of the project implementation), being submitted quarterly in accordance with the
             Procedure of submitting the information on the pace of the project implementation,
             established by the Ministry of Finance of Russia.

      2. Main results of Project implementation

2.1. Purchases on the international and domestic markets

The main results of the Project implementation are the complete realization of the requirements, stated in
the Loan Agreement.

During the period from 1995 till 2003 the specialists of LARIS Center have developed for the
components A and B the specifications for the purchasing of the following equipment:

     -    devices for execution of air surveying works, including digital air photo camera;
     -    automated photo chemical laboratory for processing air-photo-surveying (APS) materials;
     -    automated system for cadastre cartography;
     -    equipment for conducting field surveys, auto transportation means, climatic equipment;
     -    automated complexes for maintaining state land cadastre and state recording of real estate
          objects.

The international tenders have been conducted, and the contracts have been concluded for purchasing the
equipment to equip the enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka" (VISKHAGI) with the mentioned
equipment as well as the departments of Roszemcadaster with the automated technologies for
maintaining state land cadastre and recording of real estate objects, with auto transportation means.




                                                - 30 -

103 firms from different countries have been participated in the international tenders; of them 29 (about
30%) are the Russian firms. The contracts for the equipment delivery have been concluded with 32
firms, of them 12 are the Russian firms. The total sum of contracts, concluded with the Russian firms, is
about 20% of the total value of the contracts.

The purchase on the domestic market has been conducted together with the international tenders. The
purchased equipment included:
      -    office equipment (furniture, safes and so on);
      -    office and technology equipment (computers and copying machines, software and component
           parts, communication means and so on);
      -    conditioners
      -    auto transportation means.

2.2. Results of the Project implementation on component A

In the period from 1996 till 2003 the enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka" in the cities of Moscow,
Nizhni Novgorod, Perm, Omsk, Saint-Petersburg, Krasnodar, Khabarovsk, Saratov and Irkutsk have
been equipped with the modern equipment, including field and digital cadastre cartography technologies.

From the funds of the federal budget refurbishing and corresponding technical and technological
preparation of the premises, including the means for special security, have been made in all mentioned
enterprises.

The delivery of the equipment was accompanied by training of specialists. At the same time, training
was being conducted both in the framework of the project and by the specialists of LARIS Center.




                                                 - 31 -

2.3. Results of the Project implementation on component ·

In the period from 1996 till 2003 the central and regional land services as well as separate land
committees of regions and cities in 10 constituent entities of the Russian Federation (Perm, Nizhegorod,
Samara, Kaliningrad, Omsk, Novosibirsk, Leningrad, Arkhangelsk, Smolensk regions and Republic of
Mordovia) have been equipped wit automated systems for maintaining state land cadastre and state
recording of real estate objects. The number of automated complexes, delivered to the participants of the
project, and the time frame of delivery are given in the table.



Place of delivery                 1996               1999                2001              Total
Arkhangelsk region                                   11                  17                28
Leningrad region                                    12                   16                28
Republic of Mordovia                                7                    10                17
Nizhegorod region                 6                 6                    33                45
Novosibirsk region                                  19                   17                36
Omsk region                                         12                   11                23
Perm region                       8                 18                   22                48
Samara region                     5                 19                   28                52
Smolensk region                                     7                    18                25
GUZ                                                 12                   1                 13
Others                            7                 2                    92                101
TOTAL                             26                 125                 265               416



The equipment included computers, software, including the operating system, DBMS, cartography
software, being used for maintaining state land cadastre and state recording of real estate objects, office
software, anti virus software, as well as peripheral equipment, including printers, plotters, scanners and
so on.

The application software for maintaining the Unified state land register has been installed on all
software-hardware complexes (SHC).

In 2001 the purchase and delivery of 336 auto transportation means for support of field works have been
made.

2.3. Results of the Project implementation on component C

Together with the delivery of equipment training of the specialists from cartography enterprises, regional
implementation units, regional and municipal land committees has been conducted.

Specialists of Roszemcadaster have been trained to work with the automated systems for maintaining
state land cadastre, maintaining the Unified state land register in the automatic mode, to work with
geo-information systems and databases, and specialists of enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka" - to
work with the cartography complexes and technologies. The training was being conducted by the
employees of LARIS Center, of regional implementation units, of specialists of FCC "Zemlia" as well as
by the suppliers of the equipment and software. All together about 1455 specialists have been trained,


                                                 - 32 -

from them: on the contracts - 197; in LARIS Center - 239; at the sites - 1019.

In the period from 1995 till 2003 1088 specialists of Roszemcadaster system as well as for employees of
ministries and departments, overseeing the project, have conducted training abroad, organized by LARIS
Center.

Since 1997 in the framework of the Project pilot projects have been conducted, which are one of the
important part of the component C - "institutional development".

The main task of pilot projects consisted, first of all, in the development of new approaches to solving
the problems, associated with the improvement of legislative base, of organizational structure and
financing the modern system of land resources management, being created. In each specific case the
direction of works on pilot projects was chosen depending on those tasks, which Goscomzem
(Roszemcadaster) faced at that time.

In the period of 1997-1999 the intensive works were being conducted on such directions as:

·    Development of principles and methods of cadastre valuation for land under the market economy.
·    Preparation and publishing brochures, aimed at increasing awareness for the population about their
rights to land and land shares, and about the procedures, associated with the recording and registration
of rights to them.

During the period of 2001-2002 the works have been done on the following pilot projects:
§    Development of methodic textbook "State cadastre inventory and registration of rights to land
parcels in Russia" and of reference book "Organization of cadastre recording of lands and registration of
rights in Russia".
§    Creation of system of information-reference support for the land and real estate market on the basis
of Internet technologies.
§    Creation of mechanisms for promotion of redistribution of land property to the benefit of efficient
owners.
§    Legal regulation of relations while conducting land use management, aimed at the provision of
rational land use, creation of favorable environment and development of land market in RF.
§    Satellite system of land reference points in Novgorod region.
§    Creation of system for support of private entrepreneurship in the field of land use management.
§    Improvement of institution of mutual shared property (Development of brochures on matters of
mutual shared property to land and payment for agricultural lands).

In 2003 the following pilot projects have been conducted:
§    Legal regulation of relations while conducting land use management, aimed at the provision of
rational land use, creation of favorable environment and development of land market in RF.
·    Development of TOR and specifications for Internet-portal, ensuring information service on
providing for citizens and juridical persons the access to state land cadastre information of general
purpose.
·    Development of software-hardware solutions for Internet-portal on federal and regional levels.
·    Development of system project for Automated system of storage of State Land Cadastre (SLC)
documents and management of documents circulation in the body of cadastre recording of land parcels.
·    Publication the book "Cadastre systems, registration of rights to realty, valuation of real estate and
land use management in foreign countries".




                                                  - 33 -

In 2003 the works on preparation of new project "Development of system of state recording and state
registration of rights to realty" (Registration Cadastre Project) have been conducted.

In the framework of the preparation to this project the following studies have been made:
·    study of existing systems of registration of rights and recording of real estate objects;
·    social assessment and preparation to monitoring of systems of recording of real estate objects and
registration of rights to them;
·    study of legislation base and existing procedures of registration of rights and recording of real
estate objects;
·    review of information and communication technologies, being used by organizations of recording
of real estate objects and registration of rights to realty.



2.4. Results of production activity.


To the direct results of the LARIS Project one should also attribute the results of production activity of
enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka" and land committees, participating in the Project. In the
framework of the Project implementation the enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka" conducted works,
based on the agreements with LARIS Center, on air-photo survey for the territories of municipal
formations, participating in the project, on creation reference point network, issuing ortophotoplans and
others. The works were being conducted on the basis of agreements, concluded between LARIS Center
and the enterprises of "Goszemdcadasters'emka".

The activity of "Goszemcadastres'emka" enterprises in the process of conducting works was aimed at the
creation of cadastre plans and collection of necessary for state recording of real estate objects
land-cadastre information with its subsequent processing and submitting to the corresponding land
committees.

The main stress during constructing cadastre plans was made on conducting flying-surveying works as
the most efficient type of works, allowing in short time and with the least expenses to receive the source
materials (ortophotoplans) for formation of cadastre plans, for defining the sizes of land parcels and for
reference points to them, necessary for registration of rights and recording of land-cadastre information.

As a result of the conducted works in the period from 1995 till 2003 air-photo surveying works were
conducted over the area of about 150 000 sq. km., issued about 20 000 ortophotoplans, built more than
19 000 points of reference network.

During the same period the enterprises of Roszemcadastre system, participating in the LARIS project,
were conducting the works on inventory of lands, on recording and registration of lands, on servicing the
owners of land parcels in preparation and issuing cadastre plans and other necessary registration of
rights land-cadastre information.

Altogether for the period of the Project implementation more than 1 000 thousand ha were inventoried,
from them:
-    93 thousand ha in 13 districts - participants in the Project since 1996;
-    556 thousand ha in 109 districts - participants in the Project since 1999;
-    346 thousand ha in 158 districts - participants in the Project since 2001.




                                                   - 34 -

Land-cadastre information, being received in the process of conducting land inventory, as well as
received earlier from different sources, was entered into the database of the automated complexes for
maintaining state land cadastre, state registration and recording of real estate objects, supplied by the
Project. The total number of land parcels, entered into database of state land cadastre (SLC) for the
whole period, is more than 2 500 thousand. From it:
-     about 580 thousand in 13 districts - participants in the Project since 1996;
-     about 1 140 thousand in 93 districts - participants in the Project since 1999;
-     about 800 thousand in 148 districts - participants in the Project since 2001.

The received information was used by the municipal formations for solving the matters of regulating
land relations, for conducting the control over the special use of land parcels, for submitting
land-cadastre information to bodies of legislative and executive power as well as documents and
certificates for conducting transactions and registration of rights to land parcels.

The presence of automated complexes of registration and recording of real estate objects in the land
committees allowed to accelerate the process of issuing the necessary documents, increase the reliability
of information, contained in them.

The number of transactions with land parcels is also the indicator of the Project participants' production
activity. The total number of transactions with land parcels for the period 1996-III quarter of 2003 is
about 1 140 thousand. From them:
-     162 thousand for 13 municipal formations - participants of the Project since 1996;
-     598 thousand for 109 municipal formations - participants of the Project since 1999;
-     380 thousand for 158 municipal formations - participants of the Project since 2001.

Another indicator of the results of the Project implementation is the size of land payments, getting into
the budgets of all levels. Inventory of lands, their recording and registration allowed to reveal earlier not
recorded land parcels practically in all municipal formations, to specify more accurately their sizes and
special purpose use. All this arrangements, including automated processing of data, specifying more
accurately the sizes of land payments for each separately taken land parcel, contributed to the increase
of collected land payments.

The total volume of proceeds of land payments into the budgets of all levels for the reporting period was
close to 14 billion rubles. From it:
-     0.7 billion rubles for 13 municipal formations - participants in the Project since 1996;
-     11.5 billion rubles for 109 municipal formations - participants in the Project since 1999;
-     1.8 billion rubles for 158 municipal formations - participants in the Project since 2001.

At that, the total sum of additional proceeds of land payments into the budgets of all levels from 280
municipal formations amounted for the period of 1999-III quarter of 2003 to more than 8.2 billion
rubles (about US $ 270 million), from it into the budget of the Russian Federation proceeded more than
2.4 billion rubles (about US $ 82 million).



2.5. Indirect results.


By the opinion of the Heads of Roszemcadaster departments, participating in the project LARIS, the
introduction of the automated system of state land cadastre maintenance gives the possibility of complex



                                                   - 35 -

approach to the solution of tasks of increasing the efficiency of land resource management on the
territory of the constituent entities of the Federation. This is stipulated, in the first instance, by the fact
that there appears to be the possibility to automate the processing and analyzing land-cadastre
information, received by the enterprises of "Goszemcadasters'emka", to maintain in the automated mode
the state land cadastre, to maintain the Unified state land register and, furthermore, to speed up the
process of preparation of certificates and documents both for registration of rights to land parcels and
transactions with them and for making management decisions by the legislative and executive bodies of
power.

Creation and maintenance of state land cadastre database in the automated mode allowed to manage the
processes of land market, to increase the quality of service for the population, which positively
influenced the increase of the number of transactions with land parcels, which grew up practically by
two times in 2003 as compared to 2000.

The introduction of the LARIS project allowed to decrease the expenses on maintaining state registration
and recording of real estate objects due to increasing the productivity of labor, while using the
automated processing of land-cadastre information.

       3. Execution of the Project

The expenses from the funds of the Loan during Project implementation were about 72 482 thousand US
dollars, from the funds of the federal budget in dollar equivalent - about 38,5 million US dollars, from it:
·     on Component A - about 28,4 million
·     on Component B - about 7,0 million
·     on Component C - about 0,7 million
·     on Project management - about 2,4 million.

The funds of the Loan were being spent on purpose of acquiring equipment, technology, technical
assistance and training of staff. The main part of the funds of the federal budget was the payment of
customs duties and VAT for importing equipment to Russia, expenses for air photo surveying of
territories in the regions, participating in the Project, expenses for introduction of automated system of
state recording of land and modern digital cadastre cartography technologies. The funds from the budget
of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation, participating in the Project, were being spent for
reconstruction and refurbishing of premises for land committees, for conducting air photo surveying
works, for salaries of departments, providing Project implementation on its territory, including for
technical support for equipment, being supplied in the framework of the Project implementation.




                                                    - 36 -

- 37 -

