Report No. PIC978
Project Name                 Russia-Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       RUPA34579
Borrower                         Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              State Land Committee, ul. L'va
Tolstogo 5/1, 119862,
Moscow, tel. (7095) 246-31-08,
fax (7095) 246-11-24
Contact                          Mr. Georgiy S. Popov, Head
LARIS Center
ul.
Moscow
(7095) 230-83-79 (tel)
(7095) 230-83-97 (fax)
Date This PID Prepared                   June 13, 1997
Board Date                               June, 1994
Effectiveness Date                       April, 1995
Project Completion Date                  12/31/99
Project Objectives
1.      The project is introducing an automated land registration
system, improving existing cadastral mapping capabilities, and
providing institutional support in the areas of land registration
and land administration. The project will strengthen property
rights in land, facilitate the functioning of land markets in
Russia by establishing a coherent land registry system, provide the
foundation for a modern land information system (LIS), and assist
the State Committee for Land Resources and Land Management in
developing its ability to carry out essential functions in a
reforming market environment.
Description
2.      The emergence of property rights in land has created a need
for a system to record the most important types of land information
in a manner which is easy to input, update, retrieve, and
disseminate. The LARIS project focuses on the juridical cadastre so
as to provide clarity to property rights in land, support for the
processes of land conveyancing and mortgaging, and an improved
information base in support of the collection of land taxes. The
juridical cadastre developed under the LARIS project would be the
basis for a national system, incorporating urban as well as rural
land, for use by all Government agencies dealing with property
registration or other legal issues associated with land.



3.      The core of the project is development of automated land
registry groups within existing land committee offices in ten
oblasts, and in 100 rayons within those oblasts. The oblasts to be
included are Perm, Samara, Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod, Voronezh, Tula,
Leningrad, Rostov, Orel, and Omsk. These groups will be supported
by new digital mapping at 1:10,000 scale for rural areas and
1:2,000 scale for settlements and urban areas. Investment will be
made in six mapping enterprises nationwide to introduce digital
capability and speed up the current production rates of cadastral
maps. The automated registration groups would follow prescribed
procedures for adjudication, demarcation, survey, and settlement of
disputes.
4.      To address the more immediate need for land registration
capability, LARIS will provide basic automation and office
equipment, and training to an additional 500 rayon offices of the
State Committee for Land Resources and Land Management expected to
have the highest level of transactions in land.
5.      The project includes essential institution building in the
form of both training and technical assistance in digital mapping,
land registry management, and legal and juridical aspects of land
registration. LARIS will also provide technical assistance in other
essential areas including land and property valuation, land
mortgaging, developmental and land use control, land taxation and
the economic management of state lands, applications of a multi-
purpose cadastre, and environmental monitoring.
Implementation
6.      The lead implementation agency for the project is the LARIS
Center, an affiliated agency of the Russian Center for Scientific
Support to Land Reform--or RosNIC Zemlya. It is subordinated to the
State Committee for Land Resources and Land Management. The LARIS
Center will function for the duration of the project and includes
foreign experts to provide training and assistance in accounting,
procurement, and overall project management.
7.      Subordinate to the LARIS Center are two project groups, one
for land registration and one for digital mapping. The project
group for digital mapping is monitoring implementation at the six
mapping enterprises. The project group for land registration will
oversee ten oblast project groups for registration. Implementation
of the first phase of the project is currently underway
incorporating the oblasts of Perm, Samara, and Nizhny Novgorod.
Costs and Financing
8.      Project costs are estimated at US$115 million, including
roughly US$11 million for import duties. The Bank loan is US$80
million, or approximately 70 percent of project costs. Nearly half
of project costs are devoted to the cadastral mapping component, 40
percent to the land registration component, and the remainder to
institution building and the LARIS Center. Government financing is
coming from both the Federal budget and budgets of the
- 2-



participating oblasts.
Environmental Aspects
9.      Environmental assessment Category "C". The juridical cadastre
to be developed under the project would provide a basis for
enforcement of environmentally based land-use restrictions by
specifying the applicability of those restrictions for individual
land parcels.
Contact Point:           Edward C. Cook, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-7622
Fax No.: (202) 477-3291
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 27, 1997.
- 3 -



