Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3756 RU
                              Loan Agreement
               (Land Reform Implementation Support Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 22, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3756 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Page  2
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
                  "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
            the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Registration Procedures" means the regulations and procedures
specified in Schedule 5, Part VI to this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement;
      (c)   "PDU" means the project development unit referred to in Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "RosNITs'Zemlya'" means the Russian Center for Scientific
Support of Land Reform under the SLC;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "SLC" means the Borrower's State Committee on Land Resources and
Land Management, or any successor thereto; and
      (g)   "VISKhAGI" means the All-Russian Institute for Agricultural
Aerophotogeodetic Research under SLC.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
Page  3
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through RosNITs"Zemlya"
and VISKhAGI, and Parts B and C of the Project through SLC and
RosNITs"Zemlya", all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project (including, inter alia, the funds
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, and those required to
meet all operational and maintenance costs not financed out of the Loan).
Page  4
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, with
membership, staff and other resources and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank:
      (a)   an interagency project coordination committee (PCC), reporting
to the Chairman of SLC, to monitor progress of project implementation and
help expedite project implementation by resolving any critical issues that
might involve other ministries or agencies; to assist in the identification
of critical policy issues relating to land reform; and to establish
priorities for the preparation of development projects in the area of land
reform that might require external financing; and
      (b)   a project development unit (PDU) within RosNITs"Zemlya", to
coordinate the management and day-to-day implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank an account (the Project
Account), in local currency, to be used for ensuring a secure source of
financing for the expenditures required to be made by SLC related to its
operations in conjunction with the implementation of the Project and the
establishment and maintenance of the necessary facilities for the carrying
out of the Project, including for the operation of regional branches of SLC
in participating regions; and
      (b)   for each fiscal year during the execution of the Project, make
appropriate budgetary allocations to replenish such Project Account and
ensure availability of adequate resources for the financing of expenditures
by SLC during the coming fiscal year, in an amount satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, the plan of action referred to in paragraph IV.4 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, regarding the mechanisms for ensuring adherence by participating
oblast administrations to agreed principles of cooperation for their
participation in the Project.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07
(a) of the General Conditions, at the end of each six-month period during
the execution of the Project, beginning with the period concluding on June
30, 1995, the Borrower, through PDU, shall present to the Bank a progress
report on various matters relating to land registration, as measured by
appropriate performance indicators. Such reports shall be consolidated into
an annual report covering the preceding calendar year, to be presented to
the Bank no later than March 31 of each year during the execution of the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, through SLC and PDU, carry out an annual
review of Project implementation to be held in the third quarter of each
calendar year during the execution of the Project beginning in 1995. Each
such review shall examine, based on the reports referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, the status of land registration and conclude a plan of
action satisfactory to the Bank, including specific goals and projections
for Project implementation during the succeeding twelve months. The Borrower
shall cause SLC to carry out each such plan of action for the Project during
the twelve months following its conclusion pursuant to this Section.
      (c)   Each such annual review referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall also examine SLC's budgetary resources and include, as
necessary, a commitment or other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for
ensuring the fulfillment of the Borrower's obligations pursuant to Section
Page  5
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, for the fiscal year following.
      Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall employ cost recovery measures
acceptable to the Bank designed to ensure that the recurrent costs of
operating its land registration system are recovered out of user fees paid
by users of services performed by SLC.
      (b)   The Borrower shall prepare and implement a schedule of fees
acceptable to the Bank to be charged to users for activities carried out by
SLC relating to land registration under Part B of the Project, which shall
be subject to periodic adjustment by SLC in order to achieve the objectives
of the Project, based on the results of the Project implementation reports
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, complete a
feasibility study describing proposals for expanding the cadastre and
registration referred to in Part B.1 of the Project to regions not covered
by the Project, such study to include the estimated funding requirements for
establishing and maintaining such cadastre and registration and analysis of
the organization and capacity of the institutions of the Borrower
responsible for maintaining such cadastre and registration, and other
matters satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   carry out all technical assistance activities included in the
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, when
applicable, shall include specific programs or plans of action to meet the
objectives of the Project;
      (b)   promptly after the completion of each technical assistance
activity, furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations
including such programs or plans of action; and
      (c)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action.
      Section 3.10. Regarding the training programs to be carried out under
the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each of such
programs as well as the schedule for its implementation;
      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
      (c)   not later than September 30 of each year, exchange views with
the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the following
calendar year; and
      (d)   furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training program and
the benefits to be derived therefrom.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
Page  6
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the Registration
Procedures shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived, in a manner that materially and adversely affects the Project.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   suitably qualified persons have been appointed to positions
within the PDU, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, in the
following capacities: procurement, accounting, land cadastral mapping, and
land registration management;
      (b)   project groups for land registration have been established in
four oblasts participating in Part B of the Project, with premises, staffing
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
      (c)   the Project Account has been opened with an initial deposit of
$500,000 equivalent; and
      (d)   issuance of procedures on registration of land and real estate
acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
Page  7
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            103097 Moscow
            Ilyinka, 9
            Russian Federation
                                          Telex:
                                            112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        By /s/ Aleksandr N. Shokhin
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Page  8
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Goods                                     100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
          (a)  Under Part A         32,000,000      100% of local
               of the Project                       expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
          (b)  Under Parts B and    28,000,000      cost) and 75%
               C of the Project                     of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)       Consultants'               8,000,000      100%
          services and training
(3)       Unallocated               12,000,000
          TOTAL                     80,000,000
                                    ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) and (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after June 1, 1994.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower in
introduction of a uniform land registration system consistent with the
development of markets in land and real estate and recognition and
enhancement of the right to private ownership of land, including the rights
to buy and sell, mortgage and lease land, and (ii) to strengthen SLC's
capacity to implement and maintain such a system and to issue titles to
property owners.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Land Cadastre Mapping
    Establishment of a unified data format for digital mapping consistent
with introduction of the new automated land registration system; and
carrying out of a program for upgrading land cadastre mapping capacity in
approximately six mapping enterprises, including provision of technical
assistance, training, and acquisition of equipment relating thereto.
Page  9
Part B:   Land Registration System
1.  Development of an automated juridical cadastre for land and other real
estate in approximately ten oblasts comprising approximately 100 rayons,
through provision of technical assistance, training, and equipment.
2.  Support to registration activity in up to 500 additional rayons through
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment.
Part C:   Institutional Development of the SLC
    Implementation of a program for strengthening the capacity and skills
of SLC and associated institutions, including training and study tours, in
the areas of land cadastre management and land registration systems,
including administration of records relating to land conveyances and
transactions involving land as security.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning October 1, 1999            3,335,000
    through October 1, 2010
and on April 1, 2011                     3,295,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
Page  10
    Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on           the day of prepayment
                                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Russian Federation may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from
at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
Page  11
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, including
but not limited to procurement activities, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
I.  Organization and Management of the Project
A.  Organizational Functions
1.  SLC shall be responsible for overall project implementation. The Project
Development Unit (PDU) shall be responsible for coordinating and managing
day-to-day aspects of project implementation.
2.  The PDU shall coordinate all work related to budgeting, procurement,
disbursement, audit, reporting, monitoring and evaluation. In particular,
the PDU shall be responsible for the procurement of goods and consultants
under the Project, shall keep project accounts, and shall administer the
Special Account. The PDU shall also be responsible for supervising the
conduct of equipment servicing and repair for the Project. It shall
supervise the foreign training program, the technical assistance component
of the Project, and in-country training at the federal level. It shall
further monitor implementation of the Project by supervising the activity
of the central and regional project groups.
Page  12
3.  A Central Project Group for Cadastral Mapping will be established within
RosNITs"Zemlya" subordinate to the PDU. Responsibilities shall include
implementation of Part A of the Project including overseeing the
installation and use of equipment, designing appropriate technology,
ensuring the adequate provision of spare parts and office supplies and
indicating bottlenecks in these areas, and conducting Project-related
training at the mapping enterprises.
4.  A Central Project Group for Registration shall be established within
RosNITs"Zemlya" subordinate to the PDU, to be responsible for implementation
of Part B of the Project, including supervising the oblast project groups
for registration.
5.  Ten oblast project groups for registration to oversee Project
implementation shall be established at the oblast level, to be responsible
for overseeing the installation and use of equipment, for ensuring the
adequate provision of spare parts and office supplies and indicating
bottlenecks in these areas, and for the conduct of Project-related training
at the oblast level.
6.  SLC shall be responsible for allocating adequate premises for the
mapping equipment and registration offices to be financed under the Project.
B.  Organization and Staffing
    The PDU, the central project groups, and the oblast project groups shall
be organized and staffed, including staffing of mapping enterprises and
registration groups at all levels in accordance with a plan acceptable to
the Bank. SLC shall be responsible for the overall staffing arrangements at
all levels.
II.       Conditions for Equipment Contract Signing
    SLC shall ensure that no contracts for equipment to be financed by the
Project are concluded until:
1.  adequate premises have been located, occupied and prepared for the
installation and use of such equipment, including control for temperature,
humidity and dust, consistent with manufacturers' specifications and
adequate space configuration for successful operation; and
2.  staffing plan referred to in Part I.B of this Schedule in respect of
such unit or group shall have been carried out to the Bank's satisfaction.
III.      Part A of the Project
1.  Priority for scheduling and carrying out aerial photography will be
given to rayons included in the automated registration system. Scheduling
of aerial photography, shall be made so as to allow the start-up of
registration activities in these rayons as planned. For rayons included in
the first phase of the automated registration system, aerial photography,
if not already completed, will be started in the fall of 1994 and continued
during the spring of 1995.
2.  Digital mapping units to be established under the Project will operate
as discrete units of any existing mapping enterprises in which they may be
located. This will include full-time staffing, financial accounting, and
full-time use of equipment financed under this part of the Project.
3.  Digital mapping units included under the first phase of such units shall
be operational by January 1, 1996. Output of new digital maps from these
units shall commence no later than June 1, 1996. Digital mapping units
included under the second phase of such units shall be operational by
November 1, 1996. Output of new digital maps from these units shall commence
no later than March 1, 1997. Digital mapping units included under the third
phase of such units shall be operational by June 1, 1997. Output of new
digital maps from these units shall commence no later than January 1, 1998.
Digital mappings of the rayons included in the automated registration system
will be completed by January 1, 1999.
4.  The Central Project Group for Cadastral Mapping will be responsible for
the provision of mapping output to the registration groups in a timely
manner, consistent with project implementation.
Page  13
IV.       Part B of the Project
1.  It shall be the responsibility of the Central Project Group for
Registration to ensure the compatibility of digital mapping output under
Part A of the Project with the activity of registration groups included
under Part B of the Project.
2.  Oblast registration groups included under the first phase of the
automated registration system shall be operational no later than March 1,
1996. Oblast registration groups included under the second phase of the
automated registration system shall be operational no later than July 1,
1996. Oblast registration groups included under the third phase of the
automated registration system shall be operational no later than July 1,
1997.
3.  The first phase of rayon offices of the SLC included under the
supplemental registration system for the Project shall be equipped and the
staff of these offices trained by January 1, 1996.
4.  SLC shall by October 1, 1994 adopt recommended guidelines, satisfactory
to the Bank, for oblast participation in Part B of the Project, and submit
proposals to the Borrower on principles of cooperation between the federal
and regional authorities on land registration matters. The Borrower shall
by January 1, 1995 adopt an action plan describing the contractual or
administrative mechanisms for ensuring adherence by participating oblasts
to such guidelines and principles.
V.  Part C of the Project
1.  SLC shall be responsible through the PDU for implementation of Part C
of the Project.
2.  Training required for the Project shall begin by January 1, 1995.
Technical assistance in the areas of digital mapping technology, land
registry management and legal aspects of land registration shall begin by
January 1, 1995.
VI.       Registration Procedures
    SLC shall carry out the Project in accordance with (a) regulations of
the Russian Federation governing the land book and related registration
procedures, and (b) procedures for adjudication, demarcation and survey of
land parcels, both acceptable to the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
Page  14
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow suchprocedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  15
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
