Document of
The World Bank
FILE      C 0 P Y               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoYP-2049 -U
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
WEST VOLTA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APR ? 9 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         CFAF 245
CFAF 100        US$0.408
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton        0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs.)
1 kilometer (km)    0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)      2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF            African Development Fund
AP             Association en Participation
ARCOMA         Atelier Regional de Construction de Machines Agricoles
AVV            Volta Valleys Authority
BND            Banque Nationale de Developpement
CCDR           Comite'de Coordination du Developpement Rural
CESAO          Centre d'Etudes Economiques et Sociales d'Afrique
Occidentale
CFDT           Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres
Textiles
CSPP           Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits
CITEC          Societe des Huiles et Savons de Haute Volta
EAEW           Equal Access to Education for Women
FAU            Financial Administrative Unit
ICRISAT        International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics
IRAT           Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et de
Cultures Vivrieres
IRCT           Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles
Exotiques
MRD            Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER        Office National des Cereales
ONI3           Office National des Barrages et de l'Irrigation
ORD            Organisme Regional de Developpement
SERS           Services d'Entretiens des Routes Secondaires
NATIONAL FISCAL YEAR AND PROJECT YEAR (PY)
January 1 - December 31
IDA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL bEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A WEST VOLTA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Republic of Upper Volta totalling the equivalent of IJS$6.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural development
project. One credit of US$3.6 million would be made from IDA resources;
a second credit of Can$3.0 (US$2.9 million equivalent) would be made from
Canadian funds administered by IDA in accordance with the terms of the re-
cently approved Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Associa-
tion. The African Development Fund (ADF) will provide a loan on standard
IDA terms equivalent to US$5.5 million and Swiss Technical Cooperation will
provide a grant equivalent to US$3.6 million.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report entitled "Current Economic Position
and Development Prospects-of Upper Volta" was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 7, 1975 (RN'564a-UV). Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$95 in 1975, Upper Volta is one of the
poorest African countries and classified as among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The country's economy faces a number of
development constraints including extreme variability of rainfall, generally
poor soils, few exploitable minerals, long distances to the nearest seaports,
uneven population distribution with regard to available land resources, a
shortage of skilled manpower, and limited potential for industrialization.
These disadvantages also explain Upper Volta's relatively slow rate of eco-
nomic progress. For the period 1967-75, real GNP grew at an annual rate
only slightly higher than population growth, resulting in virtual stagnation
of per capita income.
4.        Upper Volta is a rural economy and the economic structure has
undergone little change over the last 15 years: agriculture and livestock
provide a living for over 96% of the population but account for less than
half of GNP. The modern manufacturing sector, consisting mostly of import-
substituting industries, accounts for less than 10% of GNP, while the tertiary
sector contributes-about one-third.  Private and public consumption typically
absorb 95% to 100% of GNP, which means that the bulk of capital formation
(in the monetary sector) - usually ranging from 14%-18% of GNP - has to be
financed by foreign capital. Exports consist almost entirely of agricultural
and livestock products.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Recent Developments
5.        The Sahelian drought of 1973 caused a severe setback in agri-
culture and livestock production. Output of food grains (sorghum and millet)
dropped by more than 20%, calling for emergency food imports of about 100,000
tons in 1973/74. Output of cotton, the principal export crop, fell by one-
third. Drought-related herd losses were estimated at 10%. With normal rainfall
in 1974, crop production rebounded, but recovery in the livestock sector was
inevitably much slower. Production of food crops in 1975 equalled the record
level achieved in 1970, while output of cotton also increased substantially.
As a result, GNP as a whole rose by 8% in real terms. Indications are,
however, that 1976 has been a difficult year for agriculture.
6.        The external trade balance has continued to deteriorate in recent
years following worldwide inflation for import goods and sluggish exports due
to the drought: the resource gap more than doubled from US$64 million in 1972
to US$159 million in 1975. The overall balance of payments, however, was in
surplus until 1974 thanks to increasing inflows of foreign capital and workers'
remittances from abroad (mainly the Ivory Coast). These remittances have
traditionally been a very important source of income for Upper Volta. In 1975
the overall balance of payments showed a small deficit for the first time since
1968, due chiefly to a recent border conflict with Mali. Preliminary indications
for 1976 suggest a slight improvement.
7.        Over the period 1968-74, Government's financial position has been
relatively strong as a combined result of an austere spending policy, French
budgetary subsidies, and surpluses generated by autonomous public institutions
such as the Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products. At the end of
1974, public sector deposits with the banking system stood at CFAF 9.3 billion
(US$38.7 million), equivalent to about three-fourths of the corresponding
year's current revenue. However, in spite of an extra-budgetary revenue of
CFAF 2 billion originating from a special tax (Contribution Patriotique, intro-
duced on January 1, 1975 for a one-year period following the border conflict
with Mali), Treasury operations in 1975 showed a current account deficit of
about CFAF 1 billion due mainly to exceptional military expenses. Although
the budget for 1976 forecasts a current surplus of CFAF 1.8 billion, the
overall deficit of CFAF 1.3 billion is of the same order as the deficit
actually recorded in the preceeding year.
8.        To accelerate development through public sector investments, in
January 1975, the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots
et Investissements (CNDI). It mobilizes savings from public and private bodies
and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other economically
and financially profitable undertakings. It aims at annual commitments of
around CFAF 3.2 billion and by the end of 1975 committed CFAF 2 billion for
various development projects. The CNDI also acts as the Government's agent in
carrying out the so-called Voltaization policy, which aims at increasing local
ownership in joint ventures with foreign partners.   The Government's target is
to achieve majority local ownership in more than half of the enterprises in
priority sectors and one third of all other enterprises by the end of 1977.



- 3 -
To achieve this target, the CNDI is authorized to purchase shares currently in
possession of foreigners for resale to Voltaics later on. Funds required for
this operation are estimated at CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.2 million).
Foreign Aid
9.        During the period 1967-1975, Upper Volta received from its major
donors annual average aid inflows of about US$42.0 million, with sharp
increases during the last three years. Principal foreign donors are France,
FED, Canada, Germany, USA, IDA and the UNDP. About 85% of all aid has been
in the form of grants, and, of the remaining 15%, 90% consisted of loans
on concessionary terms. Investment aid accounted for about two-thirds of
the total, followed by technical assistance and budget support (10%). In
recent years aid inflows increased considerably due to drought-related
relief operations (1974). While new donors, in particular some of the Arab
countries, are expected to increase their involvement in the country, tradi-
tional aid sources are likely to remain dominant for many years to come. IDA
is gradually becoming one of the main sources of aid: its total commitments
stand at US$76.6 million as of December 31, 1976.
10.       External public debt at the end of 1975 stood at US$185.6 million,
(including an undisbursed amount of US$122.7 million), in which the IDA's
share was about 26%. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods
and non-factor services was about 6% in 1975. IDA's share in total debt
service payments is still insignificant. By 1980 IDA's share in total out-
standing debt is projected to fall slightly to 23.1%, while IDA's share in
debt service payments is expected to rise marginally to 7.1%. Although the
debt service ratio is expected to increase somewhat in the near future, no
special problems are foreseen.
Development Policies and Prospects
11.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and the improvement
of supporting services. One of the basic problems facing the country's rural
sector is an uneven population distribution with respect to available resources.
About 61% of the total population live in the central region (the Mossi Plateau),
which comprises only 34% of the total area and which is much less favorably en-
dowed than the southern and southwestern regions with respect to rainfall and
soil quality. The occurrence of riverblindness in the river valley areas ex-
plains in part the concentration of population on the Mossi plateau. An impor-
tant component of the country's long-term development strategy is therefore
to redistribute population. This will require the development of regions
which can support productive farming systems and consequently permit migration
from the poorer Mossi Plateau. Such regions exist in the west and southwest.
At the same time, the improvement of production and living conditions on
the Mossi Plateau, through the financing of agricultural development projects
(including the IDA supported Rural Development Funds), will also receive
priority.



- 4 -
12.       Like the first Plan, the current Plan (1972-76) is well conceived
and essentially project-oriented; its targets are reasonable (GNP was expected
to grow only 3.5% p.a.). However, external factors such as the drought and
worldwide inflation have adversely affected the economy during the plan
period, and actual growth (2%) has been less than expected. The Government has
recently drawn up guidelines for the next Development Plan (1977-81) conceived
in a longer-term "perspective" for tackling the country's structural problems.
Rural development in the broadest sense, including the resettlement of people
in the riverblindness-freed zones, will continue to occupy center stage.
Education and employment will be given higher priority than in the past,
and close linkage between the two will be actively sought in the form of a
production-oriented education system, the content and form of which have yet
to be determined. Increased mineral development is also one of Government's
objectives, and serious efforts are being made to promote foreign interest in
the exploitation of a medium-sized manganese deposit near Tambao. Due to the
high infrastructure investment required, the economic justification and
financial profitability of the project still remain to be demonstrated.
13.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta. In view of the country's
poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate for external
lending agencies to finance a high proportion of project costs, including a
substantial amount of local costs. Furthermore, since lack of operating
funds, limited absorptive capacity, and shortfalls in project preparation have
more often than not been identified as principal bottlenecks in effective
implementation of planned projects, intensive efforts should be made by
foreign donors to assist the Government in its efforts to gradually remove
these constraints.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       To date, the Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development
has consisted of twelve IDA projects totalling US$76.6 million of which
US$19.6 million has been disbursed as of March 31, 1977. Annex II contains
a summary statement of these credits as of March 31, 1977 as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Experience with ongoing projects has generally been good. The Bank
Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme poverty of the
country and the need to raise productivity in agriculture and livestock, on
which the bulk of the population depends for a livelihood. Basic infrastruc-
ture, necessary to the economy, is being developed with the assistance of IDA
projects for road construction and up-grading, and in telecommunications. IDA
lending, in line with Government's policy, is primarily directed to projects
that improve conditions in rural areas, with special emphasis given to
operations favoring the movements of peoples away from the over-populated and
ecologically disadvantaged central plateau to the southwest, the proposed
project region, where conditions are much better. The Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso,



- 5 -
Hounde road to be constructed under the Third Highway project provides the
most important transport link in this region of substantial agricultural
potential.
16.       The proposed project would cover the same area as that of the West
Volta Cotton project, i.e. the two "Organismes Regionaux de Developpement"
(ORDs) of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou, or slightly over 20 percent of the
country's total area. The West Volta Cotton project, which became operational
in 1972, was designed with the limited objective of promoting cotton production
through the provision of inputs and advice on use and timing of field opera-
tions for cotton; the extension service has therefore mainly served as an
input supply and seed cotton collection service. Despite start-up difficul-
ties due to delays in staffing, problems of coordination with the then newly
created ORDs, and the Sahelian drought, the project has attained its cotton
production targets: production in 1976 is estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by 17 percent. However, project experience highlights the need to
strengthen the ORD management, reorganize the extension service in order to
reach the large group of new settlers from the Mossi Plateau in the area, and
to better serve established farmers. This is a central feature of the pro-
posed project which aims at promoting more productive farming systems and
better cultivation techniques for the area's main dryland crops, cereals and
cotton, at developing the irrigation potential through small scale, simple
water control schemes, and at improving the condition of women in the project
area.
17.       In addition to the proposed project, a number of other operations
are under consideration for IDA financing. The appraisals of an urban and a
related DFC project took place in Feburary 1977. The two projects will link
a low-cost approach to urban development to employment creation in urban
centers. The campaign for control of riverblindness in the Volta River Basin,
is opening up new opportunities for land settlement and agricultural devel-
opment to which IDA is planning to make a contribution.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
18.       Upper Volta has a traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy:
approximately 90% of the population is involved in crop farming and about
6% are pastoralists. Farming is difficult because of erratic rainfall, a
prolonged dry season, and poor or shallow soils in the populated central
region of the country (the Mossi Plateau). Farming techniques have generally
not evolved beyond the traditional system of shifting cultivation with little
use of cash inputs. Consequently productivity is low in the agricultural
sector, a condition which was exacerbated by the Sahelian drought; however,
even under normal weather conditions, Upper Volta imports staple cereals
from abroad. It is estimated that 8% of the land or about 2.2 million ha
is cultivated with basic food crops, millet, sorghum, and maize, taking up
some 85% of cultivated area. The land under irrigation totals about 5,400
ha, and is mainly devoted to import substitution crops such as sugar and
rice. 750 ha of smallholder farms produce vegetables for export to Europe
and the Ivory Coast.



- 6 -
19.       Livestock constitutes one of the country's principal resources
accounting for 10-12% of GNP and one third to one half of total export earn-
ings. Farmers are increasingly turning to fattening cattle with crop residues
and by-products. Most farmers also keep small stock.
20.       Cotton is the most important cash crop and a major export which
is grown mainly in the western and southwestern regions of the country.
Seedcotton production was introduced in the early 1950s, and production in-
creased rapidly after 1966. However, production stagnated at about 30,000
tons per year during the 1971-75 period due to the drought. Although western
Upper Volta accounts for little more than 60% of the total cotton producing
area, it represents almost 90% of the country's seedcotton production, with
yields up to 880kg/ha compared with 185kg/ha in the rest of the country.
21.       The production of cereals and cotton is closely related, as both
crops are rainfed and grown during the same period in the rainy season.
Sorghum is the main cereal crop grown by the majority of farmers. However,
for those farmers living in areas where the average annual rainfall is 650 mm
or less, the main cereal crop is millet. Yields are low, with the national
average estimated to be 370 kg/ha for millet and 490 kg/ha for sorghum.
Farmers produce cereals mainly for home consumption, only marketing between
5% and 15% of the harvest.
Agricultural Planning, Research and Credit
22.       The country is divided into eleven Regional Development Organizations
(Organismes Regionaux de Developpement - ORDs), public agencies administered
by their own boards of directors comprising appointed government officials
and representatives of local authorities and farmers. Except for the valleys
of the three Volta rivers, ORDs are responsible for planning and implement-
ing agricultural operations in their regions, under the supervision of the
Permanent Secretariat of the Committee of Rural Development (CCDR) of the
Ministry of Rural Development. The ORDs are responsible for a wide range of
activities, and for certain technical activities rely upon centralized govern-
ment or private services. The most important government services providing
support to the ORDs are Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) for
feeder road construction and maintenance, and l'Office National des Barrages
et de l'Irrigation (ONBI) for the construction of buildings and wells. The
Autorite pour l'Amenagement des Vallees de Volta--(AVV), an autonomous orga-
nization under the supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development, is
responsible for all development activities in the valleys of the Volta rivers.
23.       Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut de Recherches
du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques (IRCT) for cotton, and Institut de Recherches
Agronomiques Tropicales et de Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT) for cereals. By and
large, research has produced good technology packages for cotton, groundnuts,
rice, vegetables, and maize, but to a lesser extent for the traditional
staples, millet and sorghum.
24.       Agricultural credit is provided by the National Development Bank
(BND) through the ORDs which on-lend in kind to farmers such seasonal



- 7 -
inputs as insecticides and fertilizers on short term and agricultural equipment
on medium term. Interest rates range from 10% for seasonal credit to between
8% and 12% for medium term credit.
Marketing
25.       The marketing of cotton is fully regulated by the Government and
producer prices are announced annually. About 90-95% of that production is
exported while the remainder is sold to the domestic textile industry. Export
prices and costs from farmgate to export for cotton lint are established at
the beginning of each season; any difference between actual and estimated
prices and costs accrues to or is absorbed by the Stabilization Fund, a Govern-
ment agency which also supports sesame and sheanut exports. CFDT (Compagnie
Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles) has a monopoly for cotton
exports and is presently the largest contributor to Stabilization Fund sur-
pluses. Since 1970, the organizational arrangements for the production,
ginning and marketing of cotton have been governed by a "participation agree-
ment" (Association en Participation - AP) between the Government and CFDT.
Under this agreement, CFDT is responsible for production, ginning and marketing
of cotton. The agreement specifies the allocation of costs and distribution of
profits (or losses) between the two parties. A new agreement between the
Government of Upper Volta and CFDT governing the arrangements for cotton
production, processing, and marketing is under discussion and is anticipated
to be finalized late 1978 or in 1979. It is expected that a new organization,
SOFITEX, will be created with the Government as majority stockholder, to
purchase seedcotton from producers and to gin and export cotton lint. In
accordance with standing agreements (Cr. 496 UV) Government would consult with
the Association on proposed changes to the AP agreement.
26.       Marketing of other agricultural produce is in the hands of private
traders, although government intervention is increasing. Vegetable exports
are handled through a producers' cooperative which has not been very successful
in domestic marketing, but which has developed an air-freight market for high
quality exports to Europe and the Ivory Coast. The cereals market is character-
ized by large inter-annual and seasonal price variations caused by fluctuating
supplies. To improve cereal marketing and to stabilize domestic prices,
OFNACER (Office National des Cereales) was created in 1971, but has mainly
been involved in the distribution of relief foodgrains. In 1974-75, the
Government established an official grain marketing system through the ORDs and
OFNACER, but this has not been very effective, and its impact on grain prices
has been small.
Rural Development Strategy
27.       Factors affecting long-term development perspectives can be summarized
as follows:



- 8 -
(i) The Mossi Plateau is heavily populated: 61% of the population
lives on 34% of available land, and in many districts popu-
lation density exceeds 40 inhabitants per sq km which is too
high to permit sustained and even moderately high productive
agricultural systems under presently available techniques.
Owing partly to population density, efforts over the past
15 years to improve living standards have failed. A reduction
in population could increase land availability and permit
significant improvements in income. However, there is also
both the opportunity and need for the implementation of a
variety of small-scale projects designed to take advantage
of limited areas of land of good potential.
(ii) Upper Volta has large areas which are still relatively under-
populated, and which, because they have good agricultural
potential, could support satisfactory standards of living.
People could be attracted to these areas through settle-
ment projects, integrated rural development projects,
and possibly irrigation schemes. Many of these potentially
productive areas are in the valleys of the Black, Red, and
White Volta rivers where onchocerciasis (riverblindness) has
been endemic. The internationally supported onchocerciasis
campaign, which began operation in 1975, will largely control
this disease and open up these river valleys and other areas
for settlement. Provisions have been made under the Second
Rural Development Fund project to collect data on the basis
of which a long-term development program can be prepared.
28.       Intensive settlement would be possible through the development
of irrigation for which a potential of some 130,000 ha is estimated to exist.
However, given the high investment cost of fully controlled irrigation, the
absence of experienced personnel, and the lack of farmers' experience with
irrigated agriculture, it is advisable to concentrate initially on simple low
cost irrigation or flow control schemes.
29.       In summary, emphasis should be placed on the development of rainfed
agriculture in the west and southwest regions where conditions could support
reasonably productive farming systems and consequently alleviate population
pressure on the Mossi Plateau. Research has shown that present systems of
shifting cultivation can be replaced by cultivation methods which would not
only increase current yields, but also shorten fallow periods in these areas of
good agricultural potential. Such a strategy has been supported by the Govern-
ment and by Bank Group operations in the agricultural sector. The Bougouriba
Agricultural Development project (Cr. 496-UV) represents an integrated program
to develop the agricultural potential of the Bougouriba ORD, located in the
southwestern region. The West Volta Cotton Project (Cr. 225-UV) has resulted
in increased cotton production in the southwestern ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou (para. 16). The proposed project would reach farmers in this area
with a more comprehensive package for the improvement of the cultivation of
both cereals and cotton.



- 9 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
30.       A report entitled "Appraisal of West Volta Agricultural Development
Project" (No. 1380-UV of April 1, 1977) is being circulated separately. A
credit and project summary is contained in Annex III and the project area is
shown on the attached map (IBRD 12311). The project is based on studies
prepared by consultants Berenschot - Moret - Bosboom. Field appraisal took
place in October 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 28
to March 7. The Upper Voltan delegation was led by M. Augustin Wininga,
Minister of Rural Development.
Project Description
31.       The proposed project, to be carried out over a five year period
(1977-1981), consists of:
(a) strengthening the Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR with
a technical assistant and support staff for the coordination
and planning of agricultural projects and through the crea-
tion of a Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU) to establish
and maintain an accounting system and to monitor the progress of
projects;
(b) providing the ORDs of Dedougou and Bobo Dioulasso with
the staff, equipment and transportation necessary to imple-
ment an agricultural development program;
(c) providing incremental seasonal inputs (insecticides, fertilizers,
and seed);
(d) constructing small-scale irrigation schemes totalling
1,120 ha;
(e) building a 22,000 ton ginnery with storage facilities;
(f) construction of some 75 small village grain stores;
(g) creating a training center for project staff and farmers
which would also serve the livestock project at Samorogoan
(Cr. 557-UV);
(h) carrying out studies and surveys, followed by pilot
projects to help new settlers; and
(i) carrying out a pilot scheme to improve the situation of
women in about 40 villages.



- 10 -
Project Execution
32.       The project will be carried out as part of the overall activities
of the ORDs of Dedougou and Bobo Dioulasso, under the supervision of the
Permanent Secretary of the CCDR. ORD extension services will be reorganized
into a separate specialized section, responsible for extension work only. The
ORDs will recruit new staff to supply inputs, market seedcotton and collect
debts. The Office National des Barrages et de l'Irrigation (ONBI) will carry
out all irrigation construction works. The women's activities will be super-
vised by the main office of the Equal Access to Education for Women (EAEW)
program, located in the capital.
Strengthening the Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR
33.       The project would continue to fund the position of technical assist-
ant to the Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR, initially created under the
Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 496-UV), and provide secre-
tarial support and transportation. In addition, a Financial and Administrative
Unit (FAU) will be created to establish and maintain an accounting and budget-
ing system and to monitor the progress of IDA financed agricultural projects.
The FAU would report directly to the Permanent Secretary of the CCDR. The
chief of the FAU will be assisted by a technical advisor. It was agreed at
negotiations that consultants would be employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association to prepare the FAU program prior to Nov. 1,
1977 and to assist in establishing the accounting and reporting system and
that not later than six months following the approval by the Association of
the FAU program, the chief of the FAU and the technical advisor would be
appointed. (Section 3.04 (b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Strengthening ORD Management
34.       In order to strengthen the project areas ORDs Government agreed to
(i) appoint to each a qualified and experienced technical advisor to assist
the ORD director in the definition and supervision of the work program and,
(ii) establish and maintain under the Department of Community Development in
each ORD a separate section responsible only for extension services whose head
will be assisted by a qualified and experienced extension specialist. (See
Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Government also
agreed that extension agents in the project area ORDs would be progressively
withdrawn from the supply and marketing system and that a timetable would be
drawn up whereby withdrawal would be completed during the first three years of
project implementation. It was also agreed that new staff would be employed
as and when necessary to take over these functions. (Sections 4.03 and 4.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Production Inputs
35.       Under the West Volta cotton project (Cr. 225-UV), a revolving fund
was established with BND to provide the ORDS with credit to enable them to



purchase inputs for on-lending in kird to cotton producers. The revolving
fund has not worked as expected. The need for IDA disbursements from the
fund did not arise, as credit funds were provided by the existing Central
Bank discount facility to a consortium of local banks, including BND, which
in turn channeled these funds to the AP. As sufficient short term credit
would continue to be availablelfrom this source in the future, the proposed
project does not include IDA financing of incremental inputs.
Irrigation
36.       The existing irrigation unit within the Office National des Barrages
et de l'Irrigation (ONBI) in Bobo-Dioulasso would be reinforced by an irriga-
tion engineer and a surveyor. Irrigation under the project would be limited
to simple low cost schemes totalling 1,000 ha of bottomland development for
paddy cultivation, 100 ha of vegetable production, and 20 ha of irrigation
below existing dams.
Ginnery
37.       It is anticipated that incremental cotton production resulting from
the project will justify the construction of one ginnery (22,000 tons) includ-
ing storage facilities for lint and seed in 1978. As the three existing
ginneries are located in the ORD of Bobo-Dioulasso, the new facility would be
located in the main cotton producing area of the ORD of Dedougou. The ginnery
would be owned by the Government and operated under the existing participation
arrangements (AP) with CFDT (para. 25) until a new agreement is finalized.
Village Storage Facilities
38.       Some 75 small village stores are provided for with a grain storage
capacity of about 25 tons each; a revolving fund will be established to pur-
chase grains to be stored. Requests for the construction of the stores will
have to come from "groupement villageois" and will be approved by the Commu-
nity Development Department of the ORDs once it has been demonstrated that the
groupement is able and willing to manage the store. The Community Development
Department will also supervise the construction and monitor the operation of
the stores.
Training Center
39.       A training center for extension agents would be built and equipped
near Bobo-Dioulasso to accommodate 60 resident trainees, with additional
facilities in Dedougou. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
extension specialists would be recruited under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA prior to July 1, 1977, to prodice a training program prior to November
1, 1977 and that IDA would be consulted on these recommendations and arrange-
ments for their implementation. (Section 3.09 of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement.)



- 12 -
Spontaneous Settlement
40.       The project would provide for the collection of data to be used
in the preparation and implementation of low-cost pilot settlement schemes.
Basic maps of part of the area (topographical, soil, hydrological and popu-
lation density) are being prepared with funds from the project preparation
facility. Government agreed that IDA would be consulted on the terms of ref-
erence for consultants to be employed to carry out the study on spontaneous
settlement (Section 3.11 of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Women's Activities
41.       To improve the standard of living in rural village areas, the proj-
ect would include a program to improve the condition of women in 40 villages
in the project area. A regional center would be established in each of the
two project ORDs to carry out a program including the introduction of labor-
saving grain grinding mills and carts for the transportation of wood and
water, and basic instruction in nutrition, sanitation and functional lit-
eracy.
Feeder Road Construction
42.       The road brigade established under the West Volta Cotton project
(Cr. 225-UV) has been transferred to the Department of Rural Roads (SERS)
and will carry out the roads program in the project area with funds provided
by the Rural Roads Project (Cr. 579-UV). The technical assistant will be
retained under the proposed project to train SERS personal working in the
project area.
Retroactive Financing
43.       Funds under the ongoing cotton project (Cr. 225-UV) were fully
committed in December, 1976. The proposed West Volta Agricultural Devel-
opment credit will not be signed prior to end May 1977. In order to avoid
any financing gap between the projects, it is recommended that retroactive
financing up to US$400,000 be made available to cover expenditures incurred
between January 1, 1977 and credit signature.
Cost Estimates and Financial Arrangements
44.       The total cost of the project net of taxes, but including contin-
gencies is US$17.2 million with foreign exchange costs of US$8.9 million.
The proposed IDA credit of US$3.6 million together with the proposed IDA
administered credit of Can$3.0 million (US$2.9 million) would finance 38
percent of project costs net of taxes. The two credits would cover 30 per-
cent of the foreign exchange costs estimated at US$2.7 million (CFAF 669
million) and US$3.8 million (CFAF 931 million) of local costs, a proportion
similar to that of other lenders. The IDA administered credit would be made
in accordance with the terms of an agreement between



- 13 -
the Government of Canada and the Association which was approved by the Board
on April 12, 1977.  The remainder of project costs net of taxes would be
financed as follows: African Development Fund, US$5.5 million (32 percent of
net project costs); Swiss Technical Cooperation US$3.6 million (21 percent);
and Government US$1.6 million (9 percent).
45.       The proposed IDA and IDA administered credits would jointly finance
technical assistance to the CCDR, the establislhment and operation of the FAU,
the ORD Dedougou headquarters and extension service except for the purchase of
motorcycles, the Bobo Dioulasso headquarters, vehicles, equipment and oper-
ating expenses, and the training program except the cost for the purchase
and operation of a vehicle and office equipment for the SERS specialist. The
remaining co-financing would be on a parallel basis. ADF's contribution
would be utilized for the strengthening of the extension services in the
ORD of Bobo Dioulasso, the construction of a ginnery, the purchase of motor-
cycles in the ORD of Dedougou, and the purchase, operation and maintenance
of a vehicle and office equipment for a training specialist in SERS. The
Swiss assistance would finance motorcycles for the ORD of Bobo Dioulasso,
fertilizers, insecticides and cereal seeds for 1,120 ha of irrigation, 75
village grain storage facilities, the irrigation and women's component and
studies on spontaneous migration. The Government's contribution would cover
the costs of fertilizer and insecticide subsidies.
46.       Individual experts would be recruited internationally for the
positions of: two technical assistants to the ORD directors; two extension
specialists; training assistant to SERS; irrigation engineer and a surveyor
for ONdBI, technical assistant to the Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR; and
technical advisor to the FAU. Costs for about 42 man-months of consulting
services are estimated at approximately US$7,800 per man month.
Establishment of a Revolving Fund tc help Finance Project Expenditures
47.       In order to ensure the prompt availability of funds to meet project
expenditures it was agreed at negotiations that immediately after credit
effectiveness, IDA would deposit in a Special Account that the Government
agreed to open in a local bank'an initial amount not exceeding US$400,000
equivalent, which would serve as a revolving fund. (Sections 2.02 (b) and 3.12
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). IDA would replenish the revolving
fund after verifying that disbursement claims presented were eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Procurement
48.       For the components financed from the proceeds of the IDA and IDA
administered credits, all contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of



- 14 -
vehicles (totalling about US$0.3 million) would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Purchases would be
grouped in packages of least US$50,000 whenever possible. Contracts for
the construction of houses and offices (totalling about US$0.2 million)
would be too small and often too dispersed to attract international con-
tractors and would therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA,
as would be contracts under US$50,000. For contracts under US$10,000 local
shopping would be employed. The services of consultants would be obtained
in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. Goods financed
by the Canadian Government will be procured in accordance with IDA procedures.
Goods financed by ADF and Swiss Technical Cooperation will be procured in
accordance with their procedures, but should not result in higher costs
than if all procurement were made under IDA procedures. Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the level of appli-
cable import duty, whichever is lower.
Disbursement
49.       For those Project items financed by the IDA and IDA administered
credits, the Association would disburse on the following basis: (i) 100
percent of foreign or 90 percent of local expenditures for salaries and
wages of foreign and local personnel totalling US$4.05 million; (ii) 100
percent of foreign or 90 percent of local expenditures for passenger cars
and office equipment totalling US$0.24 million; (iii) 70 percent of total
expenditures for operation and maintenance totalling US$0.54 million;
(iv) 70 percent of total expenditures for civil works (construction of
buildings) totalling US$0.16 million; US$1.51 million would be unallocated.
The IDA and IDA administered credits would be disbursed in the ratio of
6:5. Disbursements from the ADF loan and the Swiss Technical Cooperation
grant would be administered directly by these co-lenders.
Benefits and Risks
50.       The project's main direct economic benefits would be an increase
in production of cotton and cereals. At the farmgate, the economic value
of incremental production at 1976 constant prices is an estimated US$5.7
million annually for cotton, and US$7.8 million annually for cereals at full
development. Cotton is one of the country's most important source of foreign
exchange earnings. The project at full development would add 9,800 tons of
cotton lint to the present production of 16,000 tons which at 1976 market
prices represents increased net foreign exchange earnings of about US$11.0
million. A total of 46,500 families would directly benefit from increased
crop production which would generate higher incomes. In addition, improved
roads and women's activities would indirectly benefit some 30% of all project
area farmers.



- 15 -
51.       The economic rate of return of the project has been calculated at
30 percent over 15 years. The highl late of return obtained is due to (a) the
fact that the investment represented by the project is small relative to the
infrastructure available from the ongoing cotton project (CR 225-UV) which
is treated as sunk cost; and (b) the early increase in production and benefits
resulting from the introduction of a highly productive technology for annual
crops.
52.       Sensitivity tests indicate that the rate of return would still be
over 10 percent with a 25 percent reduction in benefits, a 33 percent increase
in costs or a simultaneous reduction in benefits and increase in costs of
between 10 and 15 percent.
53.       Benefits are susceptible to sharp fluctuations due to erratic
rainfall, and the recurrence of a severe drought would decrease production
of both cotton and cereals. However, weather-related decreases in production
would be partially offset by increases in cereal prices thereby lessening
the impact on the rate of return. Delayed implementation of organizational
changes with consequent delays in project benefits constitutes an important
project risk. A sensitivity test shows that a delay of two years in project
benefits would lower the rate of return to 9.5 percent.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association, the draft Development Credit Agreement
between the Republic of Upper Volta and the Association as administrator
on behalf of the Government of Canada, the Recommendation of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. Special conditions for effectiveness of the IDA credit include:
(i) the opening of the Special-Account (Sections 2.02 (b) and 3.12 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement); (ii) the fulfillment of conditions of
effectiveness under the ADF loan agreement (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and (iii) the fulfillment of all conditions
of effectiveness of the IDA-administered credit. (Section 6.01 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). A special condition of effectiveness of
the IDA administered credit would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit.
56.       I am satisfied that the propused IDA credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the IDA administered
credit would comply with the criteria established by the recently approved
agreement between the Government of Canada and the Association.



- 16 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 15, 1977



ANNEr I
Page  of 4 pagos
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN21                ------------- - - ------------
---------------                                UPPER VOLTA                        REFERENCE COUVTRIES (19701
TOTAL      274.2                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.                                1960      1970    ESTIMATE         MALI        MAUAlRIA   S3&4ikL **
GNP PER CAPITA tUSSI                    50.0       80.0      90.0              70.0      210.0       240.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           4.3       5.4        5.9               5.1        1.2         4.4
POPULATICN DENSITY
PER SQUAPE KM.                      16.0      20.0       22.0               4.0         1.0       22.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO         ..       28.0        ..              12.0         ..        39.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE l/THOUI           49.6      49.6      48.5              49.6       44.9        47.6
AVERAGE DEATH RATE (/THOU)           32.7      28.9      25.8              27.8       24.7        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE l/THOU)      182.0        ..         ..             120.0         ..       156.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSI       32.2      35.5      38.0              37.2       41.0        40.0
GRnSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..        3.2       3.2               3.3         2.9        3.0
PCP'ILATICI GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                2.6*      2.2        1.8*              2.2         1.8        2.6
URBAN                                 ..       4.0         ..                           7.8        6.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)          5.0       11.0        ..                ..        14.2       29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.0      43.0       43.0              49.1       41.8        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.0      54.0       54.0              49.3       55.1        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.0        3.0       3.0               1.6         3.1        3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8        0.9       0.9               1.0         0.8        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8 /a     0.8/a           *     -     0.9 /a      ..-        1.2 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)          ..        ..         ..
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        2500.0     3000.0        .             2800.0          ..     1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2)        92.0       89.0 /                      91.0       85.0        73.0
UNEMPLOYED (2 OF LABOR FORCE)           ..        3.0 E      ..                ..          ..        7.0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
2 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC0D BY-
HIGHEST  52 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..        ..
HIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..
LOWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..
LOWEST  402 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..
DISTtIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP IOX OF OWNERS            ..         ..        ..
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST IO OWNERS          ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
____________________
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..    92760.0   75220.0 a         41490.0     17210.0    16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4260.0 /b c4230.0   3890.0 Xb         3860.0     4320.0      2680.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         1810.0 m 1670.0 d 1170.0      T        1390.0 A    2790.0/a    810.0   b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES IS OF REQUIREMENTS)        85.0       82.0      72.0              92.0        89.0       97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             66.0      66.0       59.0 1            69.0        75.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..       22.0/a      .               23.0 /      44.0A      28.0 /c
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..        ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       8.0      13.0       13.0 A            20.0 /d     16.0 /c    38.0 /d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      .0/e      1.0 I     1.0               3.0         2.0 7-    15.0 L
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0      13.0       13.0              12.0       13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                    21.0      15.0       17.0 Ia           40.0                    7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                7.0        ..         ..                          10.0       10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              ..        ..         ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 1I)                       ..        ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..        ..        ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (XI                    ..        ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)         1.0       16.0      16.0              12.0        47.0       69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          0.4       1.0        1.0 71            1.0        4.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAPI           2.0       5.0        8.0              11.0       63.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT IKG/YR PER CAP)               ..        ..         ..                ..         1.3        0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NiOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sany year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estinote between
1973 and 1975.
r0 ff. ferene b.etwee 15BR population growth rate and U.N. rote of eaturel increase hone not yet been r-occilod.
uuSenegSal has been selected o an. obJetti-e country for Upper Volta sInce its 1970 iNP in about four tinee that of Upper vo1tlta; they both are in
the.sam  geographical area (Sahelian region), share    sculler nentary eyeten and bane the neo    etonesic groth rate in the period 1960-71, and
have the a-n  literacy rote   of 5-Il portent.
UPPER VOLTA     1960    /sRatio of populatin ceder 15 wed 65 and over to total labor ferc;         lb   1963,    Ic  Ineludee nldwie. assi-statore
and ass istant aidaines     Id  Gnvern,cet honpitol establishnent;     In  12-18 years of age.
1970    /   Ratio of population ouder IS and 65 and -vr to total labor forte;       lb  EasPleYtnet in agriculture including liv-u-oc
wooctc to 96 p-rceo    of labor farce;    /c  Sn urban area, aboot 20 percent;     /d  Gonr--et hospital establith-ets;
/c  1964-66;    /f  12-ti years of age
MSOT RUCENT fSTDiATE     /s  1971,    /b  Uncleding  ldoives,92 Ic   Goweromnt hospital ostablilaleent,      /d  1969-71 anerage,
_______ _______ _____   - /.  12-18   oars   of  age,  If 19 2
MAll            197U0   /   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to tocol lao     oc,       /b  EC-rsnet hospital establishnents only,
Ic19b4-66,    Id  6-14 and 15-17 years of ago resp-utlely.
NAURITANIA      1970    /aCucr-ot hospital enaleunnn                 b  1964-66,    /c  6-12 Peace (1970) and 12-18 years (1968) repectincly.
SENECAL        1970     I   Ratio of populetioc under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force-     lb  Goveasnot hospital eutablisheonts,       Ic  1964-66,
/d  Unadjusted,    /c  L-wo secondary loca.
84, Sept 0, 1976
DEFlNrrTonS OP IOCIAS. IISDICATOIDS
Laod Area  rhon kea2)                                                          Efr57    t'q lc20  ours Leg Porao  - FPopsastin diodd bly oI, ,ber of -rcic ic
Total -Tonal esef.c ...po is-,e land area and Inland watrs,                       male and fe-ut   grad .... . araa, `trataed~~ or "re rrifto~d' n_,re,an
Agri..- Most recess e stimate of agricultural area used temporarily or           a..iliary personnel with training or euperlenc..
permanetly for crops, p-otr-s, narket & hitches gardens or to lie            P-ewlation coo leosital had - Population dinided by nomber of hospital beds
fallow.                                                                        available ins public asd pri-ate genera  an .d specialied hospital and
rehabilitation centern; eacludas n-ring ho-sos and estab1isoeta for
ONP per capit I(US$5 - NlP par capita estimates at Ourrent market prices.          custodial and preventive coa.
caclae  by neo  cnnrsUon   etbod as World Bank Atlaa (1973-75            Per capita supyof colonies (2. of regairemsetnl - Couputed from energy
basis); 1960,I1970 and 1975 data,                                               eqivalent of set food supplies -oallble is cosotry per -.pita Per day,
avoUla,blo aepis    oprise do.tesit production, imports I... e-porte,
Ppltion and vital statistics                                                    an   ho.on  is stonk; net supplies ocldeaieat feed, needs. q ...tl-
Pepslato    laid-nc. millionS - is of July first:  if not a-ailable,               ties weed In fond poceaoslig od loose    in distributUo;   eqirmet
a_rage of two end-year estimats     1960. 1970 and 1975 data,                   were estimated by PAO based on physiological nee ds for tonens activity
and health considering onviroonetal tonperature. body weights,. age and
Popula,tion denalty-pnor 50am   ksw   MAd-year population per square bile-         sea distributions of population, red allowiag 10%. for aaste at house-
ene  10  otre)e   total are,                                             bold level.
Peculation doetty- per euare .4 f        racl. lend - Coputed as abov   for      Per .aeita pwoel of protsin (Urm-     e   ay     rtI    cnete       e
agricultural land only.                                                         capita net supply o f food per day; set supply of food is defined as
ab=e   requireesots f or all countries established by 818D6 Ecosnai
Vite1 statistics                                                                   Research Services provide for a Jisimso  allownce of 69 Sra-n   Of total
Crude birth rate Per thousan.d, -eoecoa- Ann.. 1 line births per thousand          protain per day, and 28 grano of animal and pulse preteEn, of which
of mid-peer popoltion; ten-year arith.etic averages ending to 1960 end           10 gram  should be animal protein; these standards are levr thas tbame
1970,edfn    e-yar    nrage -ndt      i.I 1975 for mos t r-ct e-tiuate.          of 75 scam  of total procsia ned 23 grame of animal prncts    s a
Crude death rate con rthouand, average -_Aenuasi deaths_eec thou.s.nd of aid-       epprage f or the world, proposed byPFAO in the Third Wecld read Sure)'
year population; ton-year arithmetic averges ending in 1960 and 1970 and       Pe    vi,r~,nALeuppiv fr--om       Hj aujeei ml.t.ag  - Protein ncppln of fend
fino-year aca.g ending, in 1975 for noel: recont e-tmmate.                   ,,S    vdfo       'a"eas and pg."L.s in gre    par dy.
Sefant mortality rate i/thou   - Annualdeths ofWinants ander one yea      of     Deaith_cret C/thou) sees 1-4 - Aannual deaths per thousand i. age gromp
age per thousand live births.                                                   1-4 years, to children is thia ago group; suggestd as as indicator of
Llfet sxpecttany a birth lyre) - Aneroge nombr of yearn of life remaining          malnutrition.
at  irh; toaly fin-yerenrges ending Us 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
developing countries.                                                          dcto
Cross reproduction rat   -_Average somber of line daughters a   oe    ill        Aditd       -nrllmet ratio -rlrysbo-grlmntfalages as
beer ins her norma  reproductive period if ehe experiences prs....c ~g.-        percetartge of primar  scolae      popultion , incledes children aged
specific fe rtility rates; uasually fin-year_anregen eoding in 1960,            6-11 years but adjunntad for diffe...st lengths of primary education;
1970 end 1975 for develping coutries.                                           for coutries with universal education, enrollmet ney es..ed 100%
Pepulation growth rate (7.1 - total - Compossd annual growth rates of aid-         since s.-  pupils are below or show   the official sehoni age.
yea  popaletion fec 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1 970-75.                            Adinted "eIrolma      ratE  - seondary school - Computed ma abowe;
Pnltion growth rate (C.1 - urban - Computed lUbe growth rate of total           secondary education requires at least four years of approved prImary
population; different definitions of urbon areas may affect compara-             i-ot-ution; provides gene ral, vonationa1 or teac.her training
biliry of data namsg c-ssttrie.                                                 inetructions far pupils of 12 to 17 ysara of age; correspondence
urban poZwlatdion (7. of total) - Ratio of echos to total population;              ceurses are general ly ecldd.
differetdfinitiona of urban areas may affect comparbility of data             Years of schooling providedludfiret and second le-al) - Total yeara of
among countries                                                                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be par-
ARe structure      ...roet) -Children (0-14 years), -kring-age 115-64 years),      holly or wompletely exclded.
and retired (5 years ad ownr) aso percentages of mid-year population.         y  ationt    -eIllmo"t (7. of se.cndary) -Vntoa       ntteim
Age de.pendency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to             include tehnical, industrial ox other progres    which sperata
thm   of agen 1throu,gh 6.independestly en as dprmtsoacndary immatitutUons.
geonomc depndenc  ratio -6Raio of population under 15 and 65 and ever        Adulrt lite.racy resin (7. -t Litrae  dst  (ble to rea   and write) me
to the labor farce in age group 15-64 years.                                    pretag     of total adult population aged 15 yasos and over.
Penile elenning - accptors (co_ultie ,thou5 - Comla tine asaber of
acceptora of birth-control devicee onder auapices of national family          Hme"ins
plemeingprogrm anc      icption.                                              Persona pr room   (urban) - A-erage  unber of persons per r-m in
family planig- usrs1 o mr~ried woe)             -  ..rcetngeo of married           oncapied covetional dwellings in urban areas     dwallipg    ecluda
w0omen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who -e birth-control deicee-          so-eiaetsrcue              n   nnuied)parta.
to ellImrried womn in sam     age group.                                      Occuied dwellings without pipd wtr0. - Occupied conventional
dwellings in arbaum ad rurel ares withou timnide sor outside piped
mE.lemmet                                                                          voter failities 0percentage of all oncu.plad dweling.M
Total labor ferce Ithousend) - Econmically active persona, including              .c."ao     letict     (7. ef all dwellings) - Convetionalldwellings
seind forces end unemployed but ...cluding haoew"inen, studenst, etc.;           with electrinity in living quarters as percen.t of total dwsllimg   in
definitU  a invroncountries eat nor coparable.                                  urban and rura  areas.
Labor foc    in. agiclur      . - Agricultural labor fore (in farming,           Rural dwellings concted to electricity 17.) - Conputed as above for
foretry, heasting end fishing) as percentage of total labor force,              rural duelligo only.
Seomplseed 17. of labor forceS - Usonplyed arm osually defined as persona
whe are able and willing to take e Job, out of a Job on a givns day,          Consunttion
remined ou tof a job, and maeking work for a specified misim       period     Iladle receicers fper thou popS - All types ef receivers for radEo bred-
not macending one waeek;-my set he comparable between countries due to          casts to generaml publin per thousod of population. esclude.
different definitiona of oneployed and sorce of data, e.g. , omple-             onlicened receivers in ce-tries end in years when registretion of
neat office statistics, saple euvey, compulsory unonpleysnt inosrsce.           radio sets us  in effect; data fo,r re.est ye-r  may sot he coparable
sinc  mot cactries abolished lcoig
inron  dintribution - Percentage of private incom   (both is cash and kind)      Possa      a   e ler thou pOpS - Paaeger crs comprise motor cars
received by richeet 57., richeet 207., poorest 207., and poorest 407. of        setn    lin than eight peroono; -ntude. aebuls1a..     hearse  and
households,                                                                     military Vehicles.
glectricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Anneal cons-ptios of induatria1, cn
Distribution of lend oumrship - Percentsges of land easd by wealthiest             mmiail, public and prIvate electricity in hilowtt hears per c-pita,
107. ad p   moret 107. ef land ouneo.                                           generaly based en produc tion dta, without allowance for tose      oI
grids but aIlTeogfer importa and esporte of electrIcity.
Nealt   and entritioLesrntIey                                                                       e cap) - Per capIta annual toooption in kIlograms
popuation pe    ehyasicin - PepuLation divided by somber of practicing             estimated from dosmetic production plus set import of newprint.
pbysiciana qunlified from a medical school at omi-oreity level.



UPPER VOLTA                                              ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                         Page 3 of 4 pages
.        ~~Average  Anrnual Growth Bale
1967     1970      1971     1972     1973      1I7*     15                  1970-1975
(in millions of US dollars at 1967-69 prices and exchange rate)
NATIONAL ACCOUNITS
Gross Domestic Product             310.5     325.6    337.4    336.2     334.2    361.5    391.6                   3.8
Grains from Termrs of Trade          0.2      -4.1     -1.6      5.8       3.4     -1.5     -0.9                    .
Gross Domestic Income              310.7     321.6    335.9    342.0     337.6    359.9    390.7                   4.6
Imports (incl. NFS)                 61.4      64.4     85.1     97.1      95.1     77.3    112.5                  14.2
Exports (imoort capacity)          -28.1     -29.3    -31.7    -4.9      -37.3    -31.5    -38.2                   6.8
Resource Gap                        33.3      35.1     53.4     56.1   5-oT        25               8             20.2
Total Consumption                  315.5     319.4    346.0    352.0     345.6    357.6    417.2                   5.6
Investment                          28.5      37.3     43.4     46.2      49.8     48.2     47.8                   5.3
National Savings                    18.6      23.8     20.1     23.4     _18.9     21.5     -1.7
Domestic Savings                    -4.7       2.2    -10.1    -10.0     - 8.0      2.3    -26.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
Agriculture                        137.9     136.3    137.1    131.4     133.0    149.7    157.0                   3.0
Industry                            44.8      50.1     55.4     57.8      60.7     64.3     70.9                   7.2
Services                           113.1     122.1    126.9    129.0    121.2     120.4    134.2                   2.1
Total                              295.8     308.4    319.4    318.2     3124.9   334.5    362.1                   3.3
LABOR FOPRF                                                                                          OLPUrT PER WORKER
In Thousands of Persons             % of Total             In millions of US$ or 1976 % price
1974*                           197i4*                      19724*       122
Agriculture                             2,830                             95.5                         72          46
Industry                                   45                              1.5                      1,956       1,262
Services                                   89                              3.0                      1,851       1,192
100.0                        155          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in billion of CFAF: current)                                   1972     1973      1974     1975
Current Receipts                                               11.46     12.92    15.14    19.60
Current Expenditure                                             9.69     11.26    11.78    20.63
Current Surplus                                                 1.77      1.-6     3.36    -1.03
Capital Expenditure                                             1.78      1.27     1.26     2.00
External Assistance (Net)                                       0.55      0.68     0.92     1.65
Overall DBlance                                                 0.56      1.07     3.02    -1.38
PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENT                                In billions of CFAF: current                       % of Total
1971     1972      1973     1974                    1971 -
Primary Sector                                          1.4      1.5       2.2      3.7                       17.3
Industry and Services                                   1.4      0.9       5.6      4.4                       24.1
Economic Infrastructure                                 3.6      4.8       6.5      8.5                       46.1
Social Infrastructure                                   0.5      0.6       0.8      0.9                        5.5
Research and Studies                                    0.5       -        0.3      0.5                        2.7
Administrative Infrastructure                            -       0.8       0.7      0.7                        4.3
Total                                                   :7        7       16.1     18.7                      100.0
FINANCING                                              1971     1972      1973     1974                    1971 - 74
Domestic                                                3.1      3.1       3.7      5.5                       30.3
of which : Gov. Budget                                (1.4)    (1.1)     (1.3)    (1.0)                      (9.5)
Foreign                                                 4.3      5.5      12.4     13.2                       69.7
Public                                                (4.0)    (4-3)    (10.2)   (11.1)                     (58.3)
Private                                               l   4    (1.3     ( 2.a)   ( 2.1)                     (1.4)
Total                                                   7.4      A.7      16.1     18.7                      100.0
* Preliminary
Not Applicable



TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FIOW                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENT                                                                                        TRADE DETAIL
(in millions of current US$)              1970     1972     1974     1975                    (in millions of constant 1967-69 US$)
EXPORTS                       19,70-75       %
Exports (ind. NFS)                        32.1     46.8     67.7      81.7    Livestock                      10.0        33.9
Imports (ind. NFS)                        70.6    111.0    166.2    240.3     Cotton                          6.2       21.0
Resource Balance (X-M)                   -38.5    -64.2    -98.5   -158.6     Groundnuts                      1.5         5.1
Other Goods                     11.8       40.0
Net Factor Service Income                 14.4     23 .9    30.7      35.7    Total                          29.5      100.0
Interest (Net)                         1.0      1.5      1.8      2.0
Direct Investment Income              -1.4     -3.0     -4.7     -6.o     IMPORTS
Workers Remittances                   14.8     14.3     33.6      39.7    Food and Beverages             19.8        20.0
Net Current Transfer (+)                   9.3      4.4     10.4     17.3     Petroleum,Oil,Lubricanss        6.5         6.6
Current Account Balance                  -14.8    -26.0    -57.4   -105.6     Other Intermediate Goods       36.2        36.7
Machinery and Equipment         36.3       36.7
Direct Investment (Net)                    1.0      2.6      5.0       5.0    All Other Goods
Official Capital Grant                    21.4     31.3     53.2      84.2    Total                          98.8       100.0
Public 14 and LT Loan Disbursements        1.5      4.7     16.7      22.5
Public M and LT Loan Repaynnents          -1.6     -1.5     -2.6      -3.6
Net Public M and LT Loan                    0       3.2     14.1      18.9
Net Transactions with IMF                  0.8       0        0         0
Short-term Credit (net)                    6.,2     0.4      0.5       1.0
Capital Transactions N.E.I                -4.3     -9.1     -6.7     -10.5
Change in Reserves (- =. increase)        -9.4     -2.4     -8.7       7.0
Reserves - End of Period
EYThRNAL PUBLIC DEBT AND DEBT SEF-VICI
(in millions of current US dollars and end year).
1972     1973     1974      1975
Outstanding Debt                                   41.3    123.5     146.5    185.6
of which: Disbursed                             (18.7)    (29.9)   (46.0o)  (62.9).
Debt Service                                        2.0       3.0      3.7      5.0
Interest                                        ( 0.5)    ( 0-7)   ( 1.1)   ( 1.4)
Principal                                        ( 1.5)   ( 2.3)   ( 2.6)   ( 3.6)
Debt Service as % of Exports                        4.3       5.3      5.4      6.1
Debt Service as % of GDP                            0.5       0.7      0.7      0.8
IBRD AND IDA LENDING AND ITS SHARE IN PUBLIC DEBT
(in millions of current US dollars and end year)
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975
IDA Outstanding and Disbursed              0        1.6       3.2      5.5     11.4
IDA Share ir Total: (%)
Commitments                             0       37.1     11.2      59.6     32.2
Gross Disbursements                    0.2      33.2     12.2      13.7     25.8
Net Disbursements                      0.4      48.7     15.1      16.3     30.7
Debt Service                            0         0        0         0       0.9
Total Debt                             0.1       8.5     10.9,     12.0     18.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975     1976
US$1.00 = CFAF                          227.03   252.21   222.70    240.50   214.32   24,5.00



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   On-going Projects
STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
Credit                                                   Amount   (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Borrower        Purpose               IDA        Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                3.0            -
225-UV      1970    Republic of      West Volta Cotton    6.2            0.5
Upper Volta
316-UV     1972     Republic of      Roads                4.2            0.9
Upper Volta
430-UV     1973     Republic of      Education            2.9            2.1
Upper Volta
431-UV      1973    Republic of      Telecommunications    4.5           1.7
Upper Volta
442-UV     1973     Republic of      Drought Relief        2.0           0.1
Upper Volta
496-UV      1974    Republic of      Bougouriba Agricul-  8.0            6.0
Upper Volta      tural Development
557-UV     1975     Republic of      Livestock Develop-   9.0            8.8
Upper Volta     ment Project
579-UV      1975    Republic of      Rural Roads          7.5            7.5
Upper Volta
640-UV      1976    Republic of      Rural Development    9.4            9.4
Upper Volta      Fund II
653-UV     1976     Republic of      Roads III           20.0           20.0
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                                76.6          57.0
of which has been repaid                          -
TOTAL now held by IDA*                              76.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                                  57.0
*    Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1977)
NIL
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 225:     West Volta Cotton Project.  US$6.2 Million Credit of December 30,
1970; Effective Date: May 1, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1976 - Extended to June 30, 1977
The project is part of a cotton production development program
in West Volta, which originally started with FAC financing in 1963. It
consists of expansion of cotton cultivation, improvement of yields, credit and
extension services, and provision of better communications and processing
facilities. The project also includes funds for detailed engineering of
secondary roads and preparation of the Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, both of which have been completed. The total area under cotton in
1976/77 will be 32,000 ha more than in 1970/71, about in line with appraisal
estimates. However, seed cotton output in 1976/77 is expected to be 38,500
tons higher than that of 1970/71 thus exceeding appraisal estimates of incre-
mental production by 17%. Due to lagging cotton production during early pro-
ject years which were drought years, no additional ginnery was constructed at
ilounde. Good progress was made in the improvement and maintenance of the
feeder road network in the project area.
Credit 316:     Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of the
Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasibility
studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those sections
found to have the highest priority. Construction of the Solenzo-Koudougou
road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the Hounde-
Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did not
merit the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery there
was no justification for the road. These funds were transferred to a drainage
works construction component. Regarding part (b) out of four proposed roads
only two, from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde and Bobo-Dioulasso to Banfora (a total
of 190 km) were selected for feasibility studies as these were the only roads
which showed a preliminary satisfactory rate of return. Construction is about
to begin on the road component of the Third Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
the basis of these completed engineering and feasibility studies. Due to
currency,realignment and to cost overruns on the road construction part of
the project, the dollar cost of the project increased. Consequently, to
enable project completion, on March 25, 1974 the Association approved an
increase in the amount of the credit from US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million.
Credit 430:     Education Project.  US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28, 1973;
Effective Date: June 27, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
farmers (CFJAs), (b) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision of
science laboratories for 21 secondary schools; and (e) related and supporting
technical assistance for project implementation. The three rural development
training centers were originally provided under the project to train graduates
of rural education centers as rural development agents. However, as project
implementation has been delayed, it is unlikely that graduates will be ready
for further training as rural development agents during the project period.
Therefore the component was deleted from the project, and the funds released
will be used to provide additional support facilities and materials for the
training of rural education instructors and agricultural agents for the group
cooperatives. Physical implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily; construction of most project buildings has commenced and most of
the equipment has been ordered. Establishment of training centers is pro-
ceeding well, but difficulties have been encountered in the training of
instructors, and in the establishment of young Farmers' Cooperative Groups.
Credit 431:     Second Telecommunications Project.   US$4.5 Million Credit of
September 28, 1973; Effective Date: May 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit was approved on June 21, 1973, signed on September 28,
1973, and became effective on May 23, 1974. This credit, the second made to
Upper Volta for telecommunications, finances the major part of Upper Volta's
1974-77 telecommunications expansion program. The project comprises provision
of automatic and trunk switching equipment, local distribution networks and
subscribers' apparatus, microwave links, auxiliary construction and equip-
ment, consultants' services and training of personnel. The executing agency
for the project is the "Office des Postes et Telecommunications de Haute-
Volta" (OPT), a semi-autonomous public entity. The project execution is on
schedule. All contracts were awarued by the end of 1975, and the project
costs have increased only slightly, mainly for local costs, and the IDA
credit is judged sufficient to cover the project's foreign exchange require-
ments. Project completion is expected by December 1977. Preliminary financial
statements for 1976 indicate a rate of return of 3.6% and a large cash deficit.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
The forecast indicates futther deterioration in future years. A tariff
increase to yield about 30% additional revenue, increase in equity capital and
exemption from import duties have been proposed to restore financial viability.
Action by the Government is expected soon.
Credit 442:    Drought Relief Project.   US$2.O Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1976 - Extended to June 30, 1977
This is one of six credits made available to the Sahelian
countries to help people in drought affected areas re-establish food self-
sufficiency. In Upper Volta the project is executed by the Rural Development
Fund established under Credit 317-UV. The project originally envisaged four
sub-projects; (i) construction and equipment of 150 tube-wells; (ii) con-
struction of three earth dams; (iii) purchase of road equipment for repair of
feeder roads; (iv) construction of six seed storage warehouses. Procurement
has been completed, but the execution of the tube-well drilling program, the
most important component of the project, begari only recently. The delay of
almost one year is due to default by suppliers of vehicle parts and drilling
pipes. 75 wells have been completed thus far. Project completion was extended
by one year to allow for completion of the tubewell drilling program.
Credit 496:     Bougouriba Agricultural Developmefit Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: May 31, 1979
The project, to be carried out over a four year period, is
the first major effort to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. The project will concentrate on the areas presently free of
onchocerciasis and includes food crop and cotton development, a program for
prophylactic vaccinations of livestock, provision of agricultural credit and
extension services, well construction, feeder road improvement, intensive
staff training, applied research and road studies. In its first year of
operation, the project has made significant progress. Management is competent
and has begun a substantial staff training-program, surveys of the ORD to
monitor agricultural and livestock activities, the re-shaping of 263 km of
roads, and the gravelling of 18 km of roads, the construction of earthworks
and small structures, and the establishment of seed farms. The project account-
ing service is fully operational. A follow-up project for the area is present-
ly under consideration.
Credit 557:     Livestock Development Project.   US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project, to be carried out over five years, is a broadly
based program to assist cattle production in the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
ORDs through group ranch development, the improvement of veterinary services,
livestock marketing, meat processing and the provision of technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
It will help about 300,000 traditional cattle producers, and introduce com-
mercial tanching to the traditional sector. The project is running slightly
behind schedule; only the investment programs for the Project Unit and the
animal health component are proceeding as originally projected; however,
planning for the Group Ranch Center, the rehabilitation of the Bodo-Dioulasso
abattoir and the livestock marketing component is sufficiently advanced,
that no future slippages are expected to occur with regard to these three
components. Group ranch development has proceeded slowly; nevertheless,
the site for the first 18,000 ha group ranch has been selected, and Government
has issued the group ranch statute. A consultant will be engaged to write up
the accounts for audit, following the sudden departure of the expatriate
project accountant.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.   US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13. 1975;
Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for
the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads,
and maintenance of about 2,100 km of existing roads, the strengthening of the
Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) through technical assistance
to the Ministry of Public Works, and the implementation of the above road
program and procurement of highway equipment. Bids for equipment for feeder
road improvement and maintenance works have been received and the total cost
of the lowest evaluated bids are slightly below appraisal estimates. All
equipment should be delivered on schedule. Recruitment of local personnel is
advancing well. Terms of reference for an evaluation and impact study have
been discussed with the Government.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.   US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will be carried out over five years (1976/77
through 1979/80), and will provide a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund (Fonds de Developpement Rural - FDR) for investment in small-scale rural
projects, the main purpose of which would be to increase crop production and
improve village water supplies. Program activities will include: bottomland
development (2,700 ha); erosion control works (9,200 ha); small scale irriga-
tion and improved bottomland development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells,
180 tube-wells, 400 village warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of
medium term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5 million equivalent; and
provision for unidentified projects. In addition, studies for economic dev-
elopment of areas freed from onchocerclasis will also be financed under the
project. Project Management has begun staff recruitment and the procurement
of vehicles and equipment.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.   US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of (a) the reconstruction to paved standard
of the Banfora-Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde road (182 km) comprising the most import-
ant transportation link in the high potential agricultural region of the South-
west, (b) the procurement of equipment for vehicle weight control including
provision of fixed facilities for installation and traffic counting equipment,
(c) consulting services for a study of road maintenance and pre-investment
studies for about 150 km of roads. Consultants will also be expected to
formulate a long-range maintenance study, (d) technical assistance for
strengthening the Directorate of Transport (DOT) and assisting the Office de
Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV) in the promotion of the domestic
civil works industry.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
UPPER VOLTA - WEST VOLTA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:         (a)  IDA Credit of US$3.6 million equivalent
(b) IDA administered Credit of Can$3.0 million
Terms:          (a)' Standard IDA terms
(b) Standard IDA terms
Co-lenders:     African Development Fund, Canadian Government, Swiss Technical
Cooperation
Project         The project would be carried out over a five year period
Description:   (1977-1981) and would comprise:
(a) strengthening the Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR
through technical assistance and through the creation
--          of a Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU);
(b) providing the ORDs of Dedougou and Bobo Dioulasso
with the staff, equipment and transportation necessary
to implement an agricultural development program;
(c) providing incremental seasonal inputs (seed, fertilizer
and insecticides);
(d) constructing small-scale irrigation schemes totalling
1,120 ha;
(e) building a 22,000 ton ginnery with storage facilities;
(f) construction of 75 small village grain stores;
(g) creating a training center for project staff and
farmers 'which would also serve the livestock project
(Cr. 557'-UV) at Samorogoan;
(h) carrying out studies and surveys, followed by pilot
projects to help new settlers; and
(i)  carrying out e pilot scheme to improve the situation
of women in -bout 40 villages.
Estimated      The project is estimated to cost US$17.2 million net of taxes
Costs:         (at end-1976 prices) with foreign exchange costs of US$8.9
million or 52%. Taxes are estimated at US$1.7 million equi-
valent. Details of cost estimates are summarized in the
following table:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
UPPER VOLTA
West Volta Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Project Costs (net of taxes)
Source of              US$ Million
Financing      Local     Foreign    Total
I.   Permanent Secretariat of the CCDR      IDA/Canada        0.1       0.2       0.3
II.   Financial and Administrative Unit      IDA/Canada        0.2       0.4       0.6
III.   ORD Dedougou
1.  Headquarters                       IDA/Canada       0.2        0.3       0.5
2.  Extension Services                 IDA/ADF           1.8       0.4       2.2
IV.   ORD Bobo-Dioulasso
1.  Headquarters                       IDA/Canada        0.2       0.3       0.5
2.  Extension Services                 ADF/Swiss         1.5       0.4       1.9
V.   Training
a)  ORD Dedougou                       IDA/Canada        0.1       0.1       0.2
b)  ORD Bobo Dioulasso                 IDA/Canada        0.3       0.2       0.5
c)  SERS                               IDA/ADF            -        0.2       0.2
VI.   Inputs
a)  Rainfed                            Government         -        1.2       1.2
b)  Irrigated                          Swiss              -        0.2       0.2
VII.   Ginnery                                ADF               0.9       1.4        2.3
VIII.   Cereal Storage                          Swiss            0.3       0.1        0.4
IX.   Irrigation                             Swiss             0.2       0.6       0.8
X.   Women's Activities                      Swiss            0.3       0.2        0.5
XI.   Studies and Surveys                     Swiss            0.1       0.6        0.7
Total (I-XI)                                      6.2        6.8      13.0
Physical Contingencies (3.3%)                     0.2        0.3       0.5
Expected Price Increases (26.6%)                   1.9       1.8       3.7
Total Project Costs                        8.3        8.9      17.2



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan:     The proposed IDA credit of US$3.6 million together with
the proposed IDA administered credit of Can$3.0 million
(US$2.9 million) would finance 38 percent of project
costs net of taxes. The remainder of the project costs
will be financed as follows: African Development Fund
(ADF) US$5.5 million or 32 percent of net project costs;
Swiss Aid US$3.6 million or 21 percent of net project
costs. IDA has extended a US$25,000 Project Preparation
Facility to the Government to finance the costs of pre-
liminary studies and surveys.
Total Costs Net of Taxes
US$ million         % Total
IDA                  3.6               21
IDA administered     2.9               17
credit
ADF                  5.5               32
Swiss Technical      3.6               21
Cooperation
Government           1.6                9
Total          17.2              100
US$ Million
Estimated                        Annual                Cumulative
Disbursements:     Fiscal       IDA Admin-               IDA Admin-
Year   IDA    istered    Total  IDA   istered    Total
1977   0.3     0.3        0.6   0.7     0.3       1.0
1978   0.7     0.6        1.3   1.0     0.9       1.9
1979   0.6     0.6        1.2   1.6     1.5       3.1
1980   0.7     0.4        1.1   2.3     1.9       4.2
1981   0.6     0.6        1.2   2.9     2.5       5.4
1982   0.7     0.4        1.1   3.6     2.9       6.5
Procurement
Arrangements:      For the components financed from the proceeds of the
IDA and IDA administered credit, all contracts over
US$50,000 for the procurement of vehicles and fertil-
izers and insecticides would be obtained through in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Purchases would be grouped in pack-
ages of at least US$50,000 whenever possible. Con-
tracts for the construction of houses and offices
would be awarded en the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in.accordance with local procedures
acceptable to IDA, as would contracts under US$50,000.
For contracts under US$10,000 local shopping would be
employed. Their services of consultants would be
obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines for the
use of consultants. Goods financed by ADF and Swiss
Technical Cooperation will be procured in accordance



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
with their procedures, but should not result in higher
costs than if all procurement were made under IDA
procedures. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a preference of 15% or the level of applicable
import duty, which is lower.
Consultants:         36 man months of consultants services will be required
to prepare feasibility studies for low-cost pilot re-
settlement projects to control spontaneous migration.
Approximately 6 man months of consultants services
will be required to provide training to extension
staff. Total costs of Consulting Services are esti-
mated at an average of US$7,800 per man month.
Economic Rate       The overall economic rate of return has been calcu-
of Return:         lated at 30 percent over 15 years.
Appraisal Report No. 1380-UV of April 1, 1977.
MAP:                 IBRD 12311



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 8 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Berenschot-
Moret-Bosboom
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: June 1975; date of
first Bank mission to consider the project: May, 1976
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: October 8, 1976
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: March 7, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 15, 1977
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project will require close supervision, especially during
the first year, of the Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU)
and the implementation of the extension service program.
Section III:    (a)  Special Credit Conditions
(1) IDA would be consulted on the terms of reference for
consultants services for studies on spontaneous settle-
ment (para. 40);
(2) A timetable would be drawn up by which ORD extension
service staff would be gradually withdrawn-from their
supply and marketing tasks, to be completed during the
first three years of project implementation (para. 34);
(3) Different staff would be recruited and employed by the
ORDs to perform the duties of input supply, seed cotton
marketing and debt collection (para. 34);
(4) A detailed training program for extension agents would be
drawn up prior to November 1, 1977 (para. 39);
(5) Prior to November 1, 1977, an management consultants firm
satisfactory to IJiA would be engaged to implement and
supervise the FrAU program (para. 33);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(6) The positions of: technical assistant to the Permanent
Secretariat of the CCDR (para. 33); the technical advisor
to the FAU (para. 33); two technical advisors to the
ORDs (para. 34); two extension specialists for the ORDs
(para. 34); the irrigation engineer and surveyor for ONBI
(para. 36); and the training assistant to SERS (para. 42)
would be filled with specialists recruited with qualifi-
cations, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA.
(7) Special conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit
include: (i) the opening of the Special Account for the
revolving fund (para. 47); and (ii) the fulfillment of
conditions of effectiveness under the ADF loan agreement
and the IDA administered credit (para. 55).
Section IV:     (b)  Special Conditions of the IDA Administered Credit
(1) A special condition of effectiveness of the IDA admin-
istered credit would be the effectiveness of the IDA
credit.



I B R D 12311
@,!   i  X        ,  v                  4e                           3>                    SEPTEMBER 1976
' ALGERIA  ,
MAURITANIA                                       UPPER      VOlTA
, ,k     j1)i NIGER         WEST VOLTA AGRICULTURAL
A,.. rerx~-s                         DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5IXUIEA I\VORY i  W t  NIGERIA                     PROJECT       AREA
L   E    O E, ,4. COAS                                                                              ,,         j
A T L A N T I C  O C E A N
14          PROJECT  AREA                                                             Koro
,        z AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION ZONES BOUNDARIES
U    ORD. HEADQUARTERS
NOUNA SECTOR HEADQUARTERS                                                                              Tt
GINNERIES
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                              - 
-_-_ O.R, D. BOUNDARIES
ROADS
I-I-l----iRAILROADS                            Djibasso                  TOUGAN
-13          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                         a r
0     25,    50 75       100                                            t lbO \\jaferav  n oJr 
KILOMETERS              j              NOUNA   Soin
The b-ndge-s A-s,, -o thi ,nap a  t not
iplsy  tndct,nment o  cceptnce by tht        T  i                 /
Worftd Btok ad It, affliates                    a                     Kmn "
1'   Dinkouro                                        KO       U   D    OUhGb
0.       R.     SOLENZ,              YR        0   U   Tenado
V-          '''LT401onaug ></
NDOROLA o              (              )
S,            (aDandtf fJ ;DF tnd 
tSamorr,gousn  s*e   n      /      0>;                 ND<|Knkn 
_11. mD r / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                )       ?Bra/eo
\S2-  +-+2D"i4R  3;E-0  U  <                                     G DIEBOUGOU  O  ,=,_,
x _ J>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pologo i
,  Knkalaba                                                  <Taku      ,
SinX j~~~~~~~~~dere ougoU
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o no a. BANOR  \oa an O00 Ao, a
Sin o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.OB.IuLOOI 1I*I
~~ /   \  )                    >\> Kour'rri             t(\80~~~~~~~~~~~~~roum  \  
r A Wi~~~~~~~~~~ang/o oko A 
)( '\  \         /      I         ~~~~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~Latr_\
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.&.l-10t                                    Vs    fti S..-_. IOa
4\._/t<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~080 aiODOUAS h el 0 
4   I  V  O  R  Y           C    O     A     S                         n -1\ 0t 0 Fr.D. d. H.. 8-t
4_                           2I



