Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T7523-COB
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 32.2 MILLION
(US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION
AND LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 8, 2002



CURRENCY EQUiVALENT
Currency Unit             =            CFA Franc (CFAF)*
US$1 (May 14,2001)           =                   745
US$ (March 2002)                                744
*The CFAF is pegged to the French Fraw (:  at the rate of FF 1=CFAF 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systep
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATONS ANDACRONYMS
AfDB                                  African Development Bank
AFD                                   "Agence Frangaisede D&veioppemenf'
AIDS                                  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAP                                   UN Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal
CFCO                                  "Chemin de Fer CQngo-Ocean"
DRC                                   Democratic Republic of Congo
ERRC                                  Econonuc Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU                                    European Union
FY                                    Fiscal Year
GDP                                   Gross Domestic Product
GNP                                   Gross National Product
HIV                                   Humane Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD                                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                                   International Develpment Association
IDF                                   Institutional Development Fund
IMF                                   International Monetiry Fund
IOM                                   International Organization of Migrations
IT                                   Information Technology
MoEFB                                 Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
NGO                                   Non Governmental Organization
NPHIV/AIDS                            National Program against HIV/AIDS
OCHA                                  Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCF                                   Post-Conflict Fund
PER                                   Public Expenditure Review
PIU                                   Project Implementation Unit
PIPC                                  "Programme Intern6diaire Post-Conflit"
SNDE                                  w Societe Nationaie de Distribution d'Eau>
SNPC                                  "Societe Nationale de Petrole de la Republique du Congo"
TSS                                   Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                                  United Nations Development Program
Vice President                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director               Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager                 Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader               Eustache Ouayoro



REPUBLIC OF CONGO
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION
AND LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.       Background and Recent Development                                  1
B.       Impact of the Conflict                                             2
C.       Government Response                                                5
D.       International Response                                             7
E.       IDA Response and Strategy                                          8
F.       Project Description                                               11
G.       Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation             14
H.       Benefits and Risks                                                19
Annexes
Annex A Timetable of Key Processing Events                                 21
Annex B Social Indicators                                                  22
Annex C Republic of Congo at a Glance                                      23
Annex D Key Economic Indicators                                            25
Annex E Status of Bank Group Operations in Republic of Congo               27
Annex F Procurement                                                        28
Annex G Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting                       37
Annex H Monitoring and Evaluation, Social and Environmental Aspects        39
Annex I Detailed Project Cost                                              41
Map No. IBRD 28865






A.    BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMIENTS
1.    Repeated conflicts and their aftermaths. The Republic of Congo is emerging from a
war with three rounds of violent conflicts between 1993 and 1999. At the height of the crisis in
late 1999, approximately one-third of the Congolese population was displaced. Poverty, in both
absolute and relative terms, is widespread. In 1994, unemployment was estimated to be close to
50 percent and remains at this level. Before the first civil war in 1993, an estimated 30 percent
of the population of Brazzaville, which is generally better off than the rural population, lived on
less than one UJS dollar a day. After three civil wars, the situation has deteriorated substantially
in both urban and rural areas. After the recent conflict in 1999, approximately 70 percent of the
population is estimated to be living below the poverty line. Per capita Gross National Product
(GNP) in 1999 was estimated at US$670; while relatively high in comparison to most Sub-
Saharan African countries, it disguised a highly skewed income distribution. For the majority of
the Congolese population, the combined effects of civil war and neglect have been disastrous.
2.    The Bank prepared a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for the Republic of Congo to
guide operations over the coming two years. The TSS was discussed by the Board on January
16, 2001. The principal objective of the TSS is to support the Government by using a five-
pronged approach: (i) strengthening economic stability and equitable growth and supporting
reforms; (ii) reestablishing basic economic and social services; (iii) building capacity of
government and civil society; (iv) fighting the growing threat of HIV/kIDS; and (v) providing
assistance to war-affected and vulnerable population groups.
B.    IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT
3.    Humanitarian plight.   Whereas the wars of 1993/94 were essentially limited to
Brazzaville, the 1997 and 1998/99 wars brought large-scale destruction to southern areas of the
Republic of Congo, with the exception of the area around Pointe-Noire. This war created a
humanitarian catastrophe with about 300,000 Brazzaville residents, representing almost 35
percent of the city's population, fleeing the capital and seeking refuge in forests where they lived
under very difficult conditions for almost one year. At the height of the humanitarian crisis (in
late 1999), an estimated 800,000 people, or almost one-third of the population of the Republic of
Congo were displaced.  Thirty thousand of ithese either sought refuge in Gabon or the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Severity percent of those internally displaced were
malnourished. Many lost all their belongings and suffered great physical and psychological
hardships. The country was pillaged, (e.g., iron sheets were stolen from churches and houses,
farms were burned, and health centers, schools and public buildings were looted). With the
return of most displaced people, needs have shifted away from emergency humanitarian
interventions toward social reintegration, infrastructure rehabilitation and reconstruction.
4.    Economic Impact. The preliminary estimate of damage inflicted by the last two civil
wars is approximately US$2.6 billion, well exceeding the size of the 1999 Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Non-oil GDP, a better indicator in assessing the impact of the war on domestic
productive capacity (as oil is produced essentially offshore), declined by 19 percent between
1996 and 1999. By the time of the outbreak of the 1997 civil war, the Republic of Congo's



economy had already been weakened by years of poor economic management and governance
and by the bloody conflict of 1993/1994 and the resulting social unrest. It is estimated that 50
percent of agricultural tools were destroyed and 75 percent of livestock lost. Many archives
were either destroyed or looted. The banking sector was strongly affected and commercial banks
came out of the events insolvent and illiquid. Most deposits were de facto frozen and banks had
no resources to contribute to rebuilding economic activity.
5.    Macroeconomic Developments. Since independence, in 1960, the Republic of Congo
has experienced ethnic strife, civil wars, institutional instability and poor governance. This has
brought economic decline and the country's economic performance is well below its potential
because of three decades of poor economic management, which was designed under a Marxist-
oriented, single-party government. The GDP per capita declined by more than half, from
US$1,300 in 1982 to US$630 in 2000. The GDP growth has been erratic; declining by 2.4
percent in 1997, rebounding by 3.7 percent in 1998, then again declining by 3.2 percent in 1999.
After the 1999 cease-fire accord and successful implementation of the peace process, the GDP
grew to 7.6 percent. Due to relatively higher oil prices, the fiscal balance moved from a deficit
(-20 percent of GDP in 1998 and -6.2 percent in 1999) to a surplus in 2000 (1.2 percent of GDP)
for the first time in several years.
6.    The Government has taken emergency measures to boost the economy, including
investing in post-war reconstruction efforts and resuming rail transportation service between
Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville. As a result of these emergency measures, productive activities
have resumed and annual inflation levels have remained marginal.
7.    Social Indicators. Some social indicators have consistently declined over the years (but
are no worse than indicators of other Sub-Saharan African countries). Gross primary school
enrollment rates dropped from 125.2 percent in 1987 to 78.6 percent in 1998, while gross
secondary enrollment rates dropped from about 70 percent in the early 1980s to 35.7 percent in
1998. As a result, literacy rates have also dropped from about 65 percent in the mid 1980s to
59.5 percent in 1998. The scarcity of qualified teachers, high student-teacher ratio, low-quality
education and grade repeat-rates have been identified as the main weaknesses of the school
system. The student-teacher ratio in Brazzaville is 80, compared to the established threshold of
60, which is the consequence of the limited number of classrooms and teachers. Twenty-eight
school facilities have been rehabilitated, but 325 classrooms need to be rehabilitated or
constructed. According to the Ministry of Education, 915 teachers in Brazzaville, representing
40 percent of all teachers in the city, are holding administrative positions instead of teaching.
Parent-Teacher associations are very active in financing the maintenance of school facilities,
including latrines, water points and electricity.
8.    Most health indicators are still above the average of Sub-Saharan African standards
because the country has enjoyed a higher GDP per capita than many countries on the African
continent. Infant mortality is 81 per thousand, compared to an average of 106 per thousand
elsewhere. Nevertheless, health services have declined steadily. Infant vaccination rates for
measles have dropped from 99.4 percent in 1979 to 58 percent in 1999. Incidences of
tuberculosis have almost quadrupled, from 32 per 100,000 in 1985 to 113 per 100,000 in 1999.
IV/AIDS has become an increasing threat to the country's development outlook although sero
prevalence in the general population is estimated at 7 percent. This figure is certainly
2



underestimated, considering the total destruction of pre-war database, the poor reliability of the
present database, and the lack of comprehensive epidemiological studies. A recent survey,
conducted by the Ministry of Health, showed that 14.9 percent of pregnant women are infected
with HIV/AIDS in Pointe-Noire and 5.5 percent in Brazzaville. Combined HIV/AIDS spread,
violent deaths (due to repeated conflicts) and worsening health services have reduced life
expectancy from 53 years in 1993 to 48.6 years in 1999. Life expectancy at birth in the Republic
of Congo is now very close to the average in Sub-Sahara Africa, which contrasts with statistics
of two decades ago when the country was among leading African countries in terms of longer
life expectancy.
9.    Institutional and Capacity Impact. The civil unrest and insecurity created by the
conflicts have severely weakened Congo's institutional and human capacities. Disruption of the
country's administrative capacity and institutional memory has been severe, with loss of
manpower (particularly qualified staff), records, and Information Technology (IT) equipment for
most institutions. Many professionals either left the country or were killed, thus leaving a
vacuum in critical areas of service delivery, planning and management. Most public offices were
burned down, destroyed, vandalized or pillaged in eight of the country's I I regions.
Government vehicles were stolen as well as vehicles belonging to individuals and private
institutions.
10.   Road Infrastructure: The existing road network is in a poor state. The road network is
composed of 1,875 km of national roads (11 percent), 3,574 km of secondary roads (21 percent),
and 9,310 km of tertiary roads (53 percent). Only 7 percent of the country's road network is
paved and paved stretches are scattered. Many regional capitals do not have reliable access
roads. National and secondary roads are in disrepair as a result of years of insufficient
maintenance aggravated by years of war. Secondary and agricultural feeder roads were already
impassable before the war as maintenance was neglected during peacetime. The situation
worsened during war times as bridges were destroyed for strategic reasons. Maintenance of roads
was no more a priority and could not take place for security reasons and lack of funding since
financial resources were diverted for military purposes and staff left their positions and hid in
secluded areas. Existing equipment was looted and archives and technical documents were
destroyed. It is not rare to spend over seven hours on an 80 km national road because of its state.
Inaccessibility to the interior is due to lack of roads that strangles the rural sector and agriculture.
The resulting high transport costs contribute to both rural and urban food insecurity. While roads
crumble, reports of rotting food have been received. Many agricultural zones are inaccessible
and their inhabitants remain isolated, thus making it impossible for them to market their produce
'and obtain necessary technical assistance to augment their agricultural production.
11.   The urban road network in Brazzaville is estimated to include 200 km of asphalted roads
and 530 km of dirt roads, according to information provided by the technical services of the City
of Brazzaville. Asphalted roads are limited to the main roads, and the share of asphalted roads in
comparison to the size of the city is quite limited. Seventy percent of asphalted roads are
considered to be in a severe state of degradation and will need immediate and massive
rehabilitation. Paved roads will be lost forever if rehabilitation does not take place in the near
future. Many neighborhoods are inaccessible and public transportation is no more available in
those areas and the population has to walk over long distances to reach their houses.
3



12.   Railway infrastructure. Adequate transport between the seaport of Pointe-Noire and
Brazzaville is critical for the Republic of Congo's economy, as well as for land-locked Central
African Republic and Chad. The railway line between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville is presently,
and will remain in coming years, the only high capacity, all weather, transport mode on this
route. Railway infrastructure and service facilities were damaged during the civil war. The
railway line between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville, the econornic umbilical cord of the country,
was destroyed at several points. Rail and road traffic were interrupted in September 1996 and
resumed only in July 2000, after reconstruction of bridges destroyed during the war. At present,
transport capacity is severely constrained by inadequate locomotive power, and train movement
safety is at risk due to a poor telecommunication system and damaged railway tracks in some
areas of a major tunnel. Accidents on the railway line, apart from the human toll, had dramatic
impacts on the economy. After the last derailment of October 2001, the city of Brazzaville
almost completely stopped functioning as the supply of gasoline was interrupted for two days.
Cab drivers had to wait at gas stations all night so as to ensure the purchase of fuel in the
morning and car queues at gas stations reached 300 to 400 meters.
13.   Drainage. Brazzaville is traversed by many perennial streams, such as Djiri, Kelekele,
Mikalu, Tsieme, M'Foa, M'Filou and Djoue all flowing into the Congo River. The primary
drainage system is principally made up of gutters, drains and streams that join the Congo River,
which flows from east to west. This drainage system, built during the colonial period, has
severely degraded, partly because of the wars and partly because of the lack of appropriate
maintenance, which can also be attributed to the war situation. This system, according to the
technical services of the City of Brazzaville, comprises about 410 kilometers of secondary drains
and 10 kilometers of primary drains. The drainage network is unevenly distributed in
Brazzaville and older sections of the city barely have basic drainage infrastructure. The little that
exists is mainly concentrated in primary roads, and most secondary road networks are not
drained. The primary drainage system and streams are hampered by a high level of silt and
rapidly growing aquatic plants, which result in frequent flooding during heavy rainfalls. In
addition, the limited hydraulic capacity of the drains and increased soil impermeability has led to
frequent flooding of the busiest sections of the city.
14.   Due to the lack of sufficient drainage facilities and the poor quality of soils in areas with
high slopes, most of the southern districts of the city experienced severe soil erosion that has
destroyed many houses in recent years. Erosion represents a large threat to buildings, roads and
the water distribution network.
15.   Water. In Congo, having reliable access to water depends largely upon whether you live
in an urban or rural area. The high urbanization rate favored public financing of water to urban
centers. Water is delivered to urban centers by Soci6te Nationale de Distribution d'Eau (SNDE),
which is a national public corporation. Thirty six percent of the population is connected to the
water supply network, while the remaining population relies on water sold by neighboring
households connected to the network, or from other unsafe water sources. Access to water
services was estimated to be around 50 percent in urban areas in 1998. Recent figures showed
that only 11 percent of the rural population has access to adequate water supply and most of the
population relies on water of dubious quality from streams and rivers. Despite favorable
hydrological conditions (with many high flows, perennial rivers and streams), only 46 percent of
4



the country's population has access to reliable quality water. This figure is below the average
Sub-Saharan Africa standard of 55 percent.
16.   Sanitation. In 1996, a survey conducted in Brazzaville by the Ministry of Health found
that 15 percent of households had septic tanks, 23 percent had water closets, 42 percent had
traditional latrines, and 15 percent did not have toilet facilities and used neighbors' or nearby
clearings as toilets. Brazzaville has only three solid waste collection trucks, even though the
need is three to four times greater; therefore, available waste collection trucks cannot meet the
demand. This has resulted in poor solid waste collection with large quantities of domestic waste
being dumped into ditches, thus blocking streams and drains and further complicating the
drainage issue. Inappropriate excreta and sludge removal arrangements, as well as discharge of
wastewater in open spaces and drains compound this situation. Also, inappropriate disposal of
sewage and wastewater leads to pools of polluted water, which conveys hydro fecal related
diseases and provides breeding grounds for mosquitoes, especially in densely populated
neighborhoods, such as Poto Poto, Ouenze, Moungali and Talangai.
C.    GOVERNMENT RESPONSE
17.   In response to the crisis, the Government has prepared, in a participatory way with
representatives from the local NGO community, a three-year Interim Post-Conflict Program
("Programme Interimaire Post-Conflit") for the period 2000-02, which aims at helping the
Republic of Congo move from a humanitarian crisis to a sustainable economic and social
development, and from a state-dominated to a market-based economy. Sectoral strategies were
prepared for basic sectors (energy, road and railway infrastructure, telecommunications); support
sectors (agriculture and livestock, forestry, petroleum, tourism, environnment and mines); social
sectors (health, water, sanitation and drainage, education, youth, shelter); and the private sector
(small- and medium-scale enterprises, trade, handicraft, informal economy).  The donor
community reviewed the proposed program, for which the Government seeks donor support,
during a multi-donor mission to Brazzaville in April 2000. The program has two major elements:
emergency and growth.
18.   Emergency. With the signing of agreements with key military commanders of the main
fighting groups to cease fire and end hostilities, the security situation has improved significantly
in Brazzaville and throughout the entire country. The devastation of the economy and
infrastructure assets is huge. Restoring the economy and rebuilding the dilapidated infrastructure
are enormous challenges for the Government, while public finances are still in a weak condition.
Rebuilding infrastructure, bringing the administration and its staff back and rebuilding their
capacity, paying the salaries of civil servants, increasing public revenues, creating job
opportunities for unemployed youth, demobi]lizing and reinserting former militiamen,
strengthening the economy and coordinating with donors are all priority actions facing the
Government. Support from donors has been very limited and concentrated on humanitarian
needs, leaving almost all the burden of rehabilitating the infrastructure and rebuilding the
economy to the Government. One of the main issues faced by the Government is defining its
priorities and drawing support, on a coordinated basis, from its external partners. The
Government seeks to improve access to the country's interior and provide basic road
infrastructure, health, education, and improve sanitary conditions for the urban population. It
5



aims at ensuring the free circulation of persons and transfer of goods through improved
Government maintained security, effective road infrastructure and resumption of railway service
between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville, which is vital for jump-starting economic activities in
Brazzaville and the country. Rehabilitation of dilapidated roads in Brazzaville and rural areas is
a key objective, as is the demobilization and reintegration of ex-militias in an impartial, equitable
and balanced manner, and providing short-term employment to demobilized combatants and
youths. In order to improve food security, the relaunching of agricultural and livestock
activities, including agro-industry, is another priority.
19.   Growth. The relaunching of the productive sector is an essential component toward
poverty reduction and econornic and sustainable development. Support to the private sector and
diversification of the economy are central elements thereof, fighting unemployment another. The
program includes efforts aimed at increasing competitiveness through, among others, progressive
elimination of non-tariff barriers and modernization of the labor law. The Government further
intends to deepen subregional integration, through improvements in the transport infrastructure,
which will stimulate the exchange of goods and services. Reinforcement of administrative and
institutional capacities of the State and strengthening the rule of law are considered important
elements to overcoming dysfunctional economic and financial management processes.
20.   Rehabilitation activities performed. The Government has financed (out of its own
modest resources) quite a large capital investment program to rehabilitate the railway line
between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville (mostly the bridges). Railway traffic, which stopped for
more than a year following the 1999 war, resumed in August 2000. After the recent war, some
of the water production capacity and distribution system have been reestablished in Brazzaville.
The Government, supported by different NGOs and with its own resources, has reestablished
water production and distribution by rehabilitating some electric transformers to run treatment
plants and boreholes, and has purchased limited chemical products for water treatment. The
Government has also financed partial rehabilitation of devastated office buildings and equipment
in order to resume activities in the administration. Many schools and health centers were
rehabilitated in Brazzaville and in rural areas. The Government has embarked on a limited road
rehabilitation program in Brazzaville aimed at easing transportation in the capital city. Main
electricity production centers and their supporting infrastructure were rehabilitated, but are still
inadequate in coping with demand. Even with those efforts, a lot remains to be done to bring
infrastructure services back to pre-war level. Growing demand from inhabitants and resumption
of economic activities are far from being satisfied. Significant financial resources will be needed
to rebuild destroyed and dilapidated infrastructure and donors' resources, as well as private
sector financing will be required to complement the Government's limited financial means.
21.   Structural reforms, Governance and Transparency. To lay the foundation for higher
and sustainable growth in years to come and under a market-based economy, Congolese
authorities have engaged in full-fledged privatization efforts of the three commercial banks, key
public utilities (water, electricity and telecommunications), railway operations and oil products
distribution. The government is currently pursuing options to privatize the railway through a
concession, and has recruited a consulting firm to provide support to the Privatization
Committee. A comprehensive rehabilitation program for infrastructure and equipment will be
implemented as part of the concession and according to the bidding documents.  The
concessionaire, who will also be responsible for putting together the needed funds, will design
6



this program in order to meet its performance obligations spelled out in the concession contract
to be signed between the operator and the Republic of Congo. However, the benefits of this
program are not expected to materialize before 2005. Bids for the selection of operators and
concessionaires have been sent out. Related investments to increase capacity and manage the
sectors will be left to the private sector. The Government is also engaged in improving
governance and increasing transparency, by strengthening the overall budget performance and
tracking the use of revenues generated by the oil sector. A framework agreement, clarifying the
financial relationships between Societe Nationale des Petroles du Congo (SNPC) and the State
(oil revenues represented 78 percent of Government revenues in 2000), was signed on June 29,
2001. Other actions the Government will carry out include regular audits of SNPC, public funds
managed by public institutions, logging permits, and review of the national procurement code.
D.    INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE
22.   Donors have shown support to the Republic of Congo's Government in its rehabilitation,
recovery, peace and national reconciliation process. In this context, UNDP and UN OCHA
organized a humanitarian donors' meeting and consolidated appeal in Geneva in July 2001.
Eleven UN agencies are in the country and actively involved in various areas, e.g., revival of
productive activities, emergency needs, reestablishing basic social services and infrastructure,
and promoting democracy and human rights. UNDP launched an Arms Collecting and
Reintegration Program, under the implementation of IOM and financed by a Post Conflict Grant
provided by the World Bank. After six months of operation, this program has reintegrated 3,400
ex-combatants. UNDP and IOM aim at reaching about 12,000 more ex-combatants within the
next 12 months when the program ends. France, the United States, and Italy, are actively
involved in diverse social and humanitarian activities. Resources of the 6t, 7th and 8th European
funds are still available, and the European Union (EU) has allocated 43 million Euros to the
country under the 8th European Fund. AfDB is maintaining dialogue with the Republic of Congo
while at the same time reviewing its reengagement strategy in the country with respect to the
clearance of arrears due to this institution.
23.   Response on the Infrastructure Sectors. The EU has been very active in the country
since the end of the last conflict. It has financed US$5 million in urban and rural infrastructure
rehabilitation projects, urban sanitation and solid waste management activities. The EU is
financing feasibility and detailed technical studies for the reconstruction of the road between
Brazzaville, Kinkala and Matoumbou, and intends to finance the construction of this road. The
EU has already financed rehabilitation of the Avenue de la Tsieme and the Ceinture maraichaire
in Brazzaville, the road between Kinkala and Boko and the cleaning of drainage facilities in
Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire by using remaining funds from previous aid packages not fully
disbursed. The EU approved the 8th European Development Fund package of 43 million Euros
to the Government on May 17, 2001. The bulk of this aid package (66 percent) will finance
construction of the road between Brazzaville and Kinkala, about 250 km rural roads
rehabilitation works in the northern, central and southern areas of the country and the national
transportation plan. The EU may also finance construction of the connection road between the
southern exit of the city of Brazzaville and the hinterland. The 9th European Development Fund,
7



a total amount of 117 million Euros, is being discussed and will be used to finance roads in
addition to support democracy, human rights and state of law.
24.   The French Development Agency had intended to finance different projects; these
include rehabilitation of the roads connecting Kinkala to Loutete; an Urban Rehabilitation
project for Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire, including drainage and road rehabilitation works and
municipal capacity building for US$18 million; and an employment and reinsertion project in the
same cities, including a labor-intensive works component for US$5 million. Detailed design
studies for the Urban Rehabilitation project and preliminary studies for the Employment and
Reinsertion Project have been prepared and are available. These projects cannot be implemented
because the Republic of Congo is in a non-accrual status regarding its debt arrears with AFD.
The agency is financing studies to define rehabilitation works to be carried out on the Port of
Pointe-Noire, and the privatization scheme for the Port of Brazzaville and secondary ports with
remaining funds from previous structural adjustment programs. In the meantime, AFD financed,
on an account sharing arrangement with IDA, feasibility and preliminary studies on roads,
drainage works and capacity building activities. These studies are available and have been used
to define and cost components of the proposed project.
25.   The French Ministry of Cooperation has been active in the country since 1999 and
support programs related to school rehabilitation, teacher training and health sector technical
assistance. The French ministry is preparing a new assistance program aimed at strengthening
Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire municipalities.
26.   In 1998, the African Development Bank prepared a US$10 million emergency recovery
credit, with particular focus on infrastructure rehabilitation, aimed at improving drainage and
roads in Poto Poto and Ouenze districts in Brazzaville while using, whenever possible, labor-
intensive methods, rehabilitation of school facilities, microfinance and capacity building
activities. AfDB could not continue this operation because the Republic of Congo has not cleared
its arrears with AfDB.
E. IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
I.    Elements of IDA Response
27.   The proposed Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation  and Living  Conditions
Improvement Project is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy and will
address unemployment issues through labor-intensive projects, infrastructure rehabilitation to
assist the Republic of Congo in the transition from war to sustainable peace, and the resumption
of economic and social development. The TSS guides the Bank's engagement over the next 24-
months in support of the Government's Interim Post Conflict Program, in areas where the Bank
has a clear comparative advantage. The principal objective of the Bank's TSS is to support the
Government in facing the four simultaneous challenges of consolidating its home-grown peace
process: laying and solidifying the foundation for the democratization of political life, physically
reconstructing the country, improving economic management through increased transparency
and good governance in public resource management. Achievement of this objective will be
based on:
8



a) Strengthening economic stability and equitable growth and supporting reforms to
facilitate the transition to a market-based economy; this would be closely linked
with the IMF program;
b) Reestablishing basic economic and social services, including rehabilitation and
maintenance of small- and large-scale infrastructure;
c) Building capacity of government and civil society so as to help the Republic of
Congo face the challenges of designing and implementing effective programs,
improve governance, and undertake public transactions transparently;
d) Fighting the growing threat of HIV/AIDS; and
e) Providing assistance to war-affected and vulnerable population groups.
28.   There are five projects being prepared under the strategy. The proposed project is the
fourth operation of the TSS. It would respond to the emergency of reestablishing basic economic
and social services, rehabilitating and maintaining small- and large-scale social infrastructures to
help jump-start the economy. This will be achieved by rehabilitating the railways infrastructure,
improving sanitary conditions in the Brazzaville neighborhoods, facilitating transportation in
Brazzaville while reestablishing connections between the rural areas and the cities, and providing
job opportunities for the urban youth.
29.   Other operations under the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy include: (i) a US$37.5
million Post Conflict ERC, approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on July 31, 2001,
following the implementation of structural reforms to strengthen economic stability, expand the
private sector's role by privatizing all commercial banks, forestry companies, key public utilities
and increase transparency in the use of oil revenues; (ii) a US$5 million Emergency
Demobilization, Disarmament and Reintegration Credit (Cr 3561 COB), approved on July 31,
2001, aimed at providing sound post-conflict reintegration options to currently unemployed ex-
combatants and rehabilitating physical and social infrastructures in their original communities;
(iii) a US$7 rnillion Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project, approved on
February 7, 2002, to accompany reforms envisaged under the Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Post Conflict ERC), and to enhance transparency of decision making in
the oil and gas sectors, in public finance, particularly the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Budget (MoFFB), and in government's disengagement from the productive sectors of the
economy, focusing on the privatization program; and (iv) an HIV/AIDS project to address the
growing threat of AIDS.
30.   The Bank is also in the process of engaging in non-lending activities. These activities will
include public expenditure reviews, a social assessment, a labor market analysis and studies on
natural resources management. The public expenditure reviews will aim at rationalizing
revenues and expenditures and make the budgetary process and management of public resources
more transparent and more effective to the country's development objectives. Given the huge
unemployment situation facing the country, a better knowledge of the labor market is key to
developing strategies and approaches to facilitate and increase employment opportunities. The
Bank has, through a US$1 million Post-Conflict grant and a US$0.5 million Institutional
Development Grant, supported activities related to promotion of youth and women, and studies
9



aimed at defining an enabling environment for private sector participation in the
telecommunications sector.
II.   Rationale for IDA Involvement
31.     The proposed Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living Conditions
Improvement Project will help address the country's immediate rehabilitation needs. The
rebuilding of basic and social infrastructure, using labor-intensive methods, will help create jobs.
The Bank chaired the Donors' consultation, held in Paris in October 2000, and was asked to lead
the donor community by providing a framework for mobilizing donor resources, strengthening
the Government's aid coordination capacity and sharing its post-conflict experience. During the
Paris meeting, it was stressed that support from the international community may help avert the
creation of a lost generation of uneducated youth with a bleak future, who could be a danger to
the society in the future as the social systems further fall into disarray. Finally, the Bank has also
developed valuable experience in implementing labor-intensive public works.
III.  Lessons Learned
32.   Previous and current Bank operations on emergency reconstruction in post-conflict
countries (Ethiopia, Eritrea, Rwanda, Uganda, Bosnia-Herzegovina) have provided us with
valuable lessons, which have been included in the design of this project. One lesson is to
establish dialogue on a wide range of technical issues, implementation arrangements and
management decisions. This has been achieved by assessing the potential for saving by using
local materials. The Government has agreed to include local materials for the construction of
tertiary roads and drainage networks and to use labor-intensive methods for infrastructure works.
The municipality of Brazzaville has also agreed to move away from its traditional approach and
to contract out operation and maintenance of urban roads and drainage facilities to the local
private sector and earmark appropriate funds for maintenance purposes.
33.   Another lesson is that implementation arrangements should be kept simple to
accommodate limited capacity and avoid unrealistic expectations because the process of
rehabilitation is lengthy and complex. Including too many components and too many activities in
such a project can create excessive complexity that can be detrimental to project objectives. Even
if the project is relatively large, project interventions are limited in comparison to the needs
identified in the Government Emergency Reconstruction Program presented to the donor
community. Activities related to water supply, electricity and telecommunications, which are
very important, are not part of the project. Even if commitment is high, and when capacity is
low, (which is normally the case in post-conflict situation), project designs should remain
relatively simple while additional capacity should be ensured through continued technical
assistance and training of project staff. Even if the number of stakeholders involved in the project
is quite important, implementation will lie with only one unit.
34.   A third lesson is that procurement and disbursement procedures should be kept in line
with the post-conflict context. In order to speed up disbursement, streamlined and expeditious
procurement arrangements should be used to avoid late delivery of goods and commissioning of
work. The project has embraced this lesson and procurement procedures under the project will
not follow national regulations, which are known to be cumbersome, unclear and lengthy.
Contract signing responsibilities have been limited to the project coordinator.
10



35.   The fourth lesson is that Government ownership is essential to reduce blockage and
opposition from vested interests and accept the "bypassing" of existing procedures to consider
the project as a first step on which to build future collaboration between the Government and the
Bank. Those lessons have been incorporated in the design of the project. The Government has
agreed to give full implementation responsibility to the PIU to run the project.
F.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I.    Project Objective
36.   The objective of the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions
Improvement Project is to contribute to reestablishment of basic economic activities and social
services by rehabilitating primary, secondary and urban roads, railways, drainage, and school
facilities.
37.   This will be the basis for long-term reconstruction and economic recovery. Particular
attention will be paid to long-term sustainability, so that actions taken during the emergency
situation do not have long-term adverse consequences on institutions and programs.
II.   Project Costing and Financing
38.   The Project includes five major components: (i) primary and secondary infrastructure
rehabilitation; (ii) employment generation; (iii) railway rehabilitation; (iv) HIV/AIDS
sensitization; and (v) institutional strengthening and capacity building.
39.   The project is a first attempt to tackle part of the larger reconstruction and rehabilitation
of infrastructure needs of the country that cannot be solved under an emergency operation. The
urban water, telecommunication and electricity sectors, which are more prone to private sector
participation, are not addressed under this project as the Government is engaged in a process of
developing public-private partnerships in the above-mentioned sectors. Private operators will be
responsible for financing rehabilitation works and investments related to additional capacity to
meet actual and future demands in those sectors. AFD and the Bank are actually supporting the
Government in securing private sector participation on those sectors. Future Bank operations,
participation of other donors and financing from Government will address remaining
reconstruction needs and works related to expansion of infrastructure services in the future.
40.     Project Costing: The total cost for the proposed project has been estimated at US$40
million. Details can be found in Annex I.



Table 1. Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement
Project Costing Table (in million US$)
Component                        Amount in US$
Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation  12.10
Employment Generation                                10.58
Railway Rehabilitation                               12.96
HIV Sensitization                                     1.47
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building     1.93
PPF                                                   1.03
Total                                               40.00
Table 2.    Project Financing Plan
Source                           Total
US$ million
Government of Republic of        00.0
Congo
IDA                             40.00
Total                           40.00
Aid Coordination
41.   In spite of the country's arrears situation with AFD, AfDB and OPEC Fund, they have
indicated their willingness to support the Government's rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts.
Previous contributions from donors have been organized through the Ministry of Public Works
and Equipment, and this Ministry handles most road rehabilitation programs. The capacity
building component will complement efforts already in place or in the process of being
implemented by the French Ministry of Cooperation (Cooperation fran,aise). Feasibility and
preliminary design studies of some urban roads and drainage facilities in Brazzaville, included in
the proposed project, have been financed by AFD. Discussions are underway among the
Government, AFD, AfDB and OPEC Fund for developing programs and projects that can be
supported with new resources to be provided by these donors. At the same time, the Bank keeps
informing these important partners on progress made during project preparation and will
continue to keep them informed during project implementation.
III.  Detailed Project Description
42.   Component 1 - Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation: This component
will finance:
(i)   Reconstruction of 190 km of roads in the primary inter-urban road network
damaged during the conflict in the Pool, Bouenza and Plateaux regions; and
(ii)  Rehabilitation of 15 km of badly damaged primary roads in the city of
Brazzaville.
12



43.   Component 2 - Employment Generation: This component will help create temporary
employment and, in the process, develop skills to help provide income to unemployed youths
and demobilized combatants, thereby helping to stabilize the peace process. This component
will finance the following activities:
- Social and Environmental Infrastructure: (a) Rehabilitate 124 classrooms in
13 primary schools in Brazzaville and provide needed equipment; and (b)
construct 7 km of tertiary drainage facilities in Brazzaville (Moungali and
Makelekele districts);
- Infrastructure to prevent further damage: Protect 12,000 m2 of eroded sites in
the Makelekele district in Brazzaville to prevent further collapse of roads, houses,
water lines that can seriously disrupt public and economic activities; and
- Transport Infrastructure: (a) Rehabilitate 290 km of rural roads from rural
agricultural producing areas to secondary urban centers in the Pool, Bouenza, and
Plateaux regions; and (b) construct 9.5 km of tertiary paved roads in Brazzaville.
44.   Component 3 - Railway Rehabilitation: Emergency railway rehabilitation, limited in
scope, is aimed at improving (in the short-term) the transport capacity of this critical railway
line, as well as the safety of train movements. The main activities to be financed under the
emergency railway rehabilitation component are the following:
(i) Reinforcing the radio-telecommunication network between stations and trains;
(ii) Strengthening locomotive power capacity through spare parts acquisition (for
rehabilitation of existing but presently not running locomotives);
(iii) Acquiring railway materials (rails, sleepers, fastenings) for emergency track
repairs (after derailments), and spare parts for track maintenance equipment
(lorries, tamping machine);
(iv) Improving security conditions in the Mayombe tunnel (lighting, ventilation,
track repair.); and
(v) Acquiring essential spare parts for freight wagons and passenger coaches.
45.   Component 4 - HIV Sensitization: This component will support the fight against the
spread of HIV/AIDS by complementing existing programs and assist local NGOs working on
HIV/AIDS sensitization. This component will also support the strengthening of the ability of the
Municipality of Brazzaville to focus on HIV/AIDS sensitization. Work programs to be funded by
this component have been agreed upon with the NPHIV/AIDS (the executing agency of the
National Strategy against HIV/AIDS) and will closely follow the national strategy for HIV/AIDS
prevention. Activities to be funded include (i) general sensitization programs at the national
level, to local authorities in Brazzaville and in rural areas, specific sensitization activities on
work sites, primary and high schools, condom distribution, treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases of infected workers and sexual workers on work sites and areas surrounding works sites
in Brazzaville, along rehabilitated rural roads and railway line; (ii) construction of two diagnostic
centers in two districts in Brazzaville, with appropriate equipment for testing for the virus,
chemicals and supplies; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation.
13



46.   Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: This component aims
at giving limited institutional support to certain ministries and municipalities by providing
technical assistance and training.  It will finance restoration and upgrading of destroyed
equipment and databases to ensure that rehabilitated infrastructure and services are being
properly managed and maintained. It will also finance communication and information activities
related to the project and develop community awareness about the project on how the population
can participate in the maintenance of future rehabilitated roads, drainage and school facilities.
Consistent with that approach, the project will finance the following activities:
In the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
(a) Computerization of the Project Implementation Unit and units in charge of
planning and maintaining primary and rural roads and develop appropriate
procedures to contract out maintenance activities to the private sector and monitor
performance;
(b) Development of a MIS to monitor employment creation in labor intensive public
works and track project implementation progress;
(c) Computerization and updating of the road database and development of
procedures to update the database on a continuous and systematic basis; and
(d) Training staff from the Ministry of Public Works in maintenance planning,
monitoring and procurement of maintenance activities and in administration of
labor-intensive public works.
In the municipality of Brazzaville
(a) Computerization of the technical unit and development of procedures to contract
out operations and maintenance of drainage and roads to the local private sector;
and
(b) Capacity building in maintenance planning, procurement, monitoring of
maintenance activities and performance of private sector contractors, and
provision of some limited training to selected local consultants and contractors in
the design and implementation of labor-intensive public works and administration
of contracts.
G. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I.    Project Coverage and Implementation Period
47.   The project will be implemented over four years (June 2002 to July 2006). This period is
requested to implement the project in a smooth way considering the relatively weak capacity of
local consulting firms and contractors who will be involved in the execution of a large share of
the project. Activities will essentially be concentrated in Brazzaville and in the regions hardest
hit by the 1999 conflict and food and agricultural commodities producing areas.
48.   Progress made under the project will be reviewed during supervision missions, held twice
a year, by appropriately staffed Bank teams in order to cover the scope of the project.
Environmental, procurement and financial management issues will be reviewed during those
missions. Supervision will be jointly conducted with the Borrower and in collaboration with
various stakeholders. A mid-term review will take place at the end of the second year of the
14



project during which corrective measures will be recommended and adopted as needed. Donors
active in the country will be invited to participate in supervision missions and the aide memoire
will be sent to them. The first annual implementation review will take place 12 months after
credit effectiveness.  Subsequent reviews will assess implementation  arrangements,
achievements on physical outputs, procurement processes and disbursement levels. Detailed
progress reports will be prepared by the Project Implementation Unit and transmitted to IDA one
month before the review, and quarterly reports will also be prepared by the PIU and submitted to
IDA.
II.   Implementation Arrangements.
49.   In an attempt to build institutional capacity and speed up implementation, the project will
be coordinated and implemented by a Project Implementation Unit, which will be based at the
Ministry of Public Works and Equipment. The PIU will report to the Minister of Public Works
and Equipment and to the Project Steering committee. The PIU will function autonomously and
will have full responsibility for implementing all project components. The PIU will be assisted
by short-term technical assistance to handle the expected large flow of procurement activities for
the first two years of the project. This arrangement to reinforce the capacity of the PIU
concerning procurement will be evaluated every year and during the mid-term review and if
changes are needed, they will be implemented. The Government has signed a decree exempting
the PIU from using national procurement procedures. The PIU will therefore use its own
procurement procedures, which will be detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. The PIU
will be staffed by a Project coordinator, two technical specialists, a procurement specialist, a
financial management specialist who will be the Chief Finance Officer (CFO) and an
Infornation and Communication Officer. All PIU staff were selected on a competitive basis and
will be paid with credit resources. The steering committee, composed of representatives from
ministries (Ministry of Public Works and Equipment, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health,
Ministry of the Interior, Security and Administration of the Territory, Ministry of Agriculture,
Ministry of Environment, Ministry in charge of Employment and Youth, and Ministry in charge
of demobilization) and the municipality of Brazzaville, will also include NGO representatives
and the private sector. This committee will oversee project execution and ensure consistency
between sector approaches and project implementation and ensure that issues and points raised
by NGOs are heard. The PIU will set up five technical committees with the main stakeholders
who are the city of Brazzaville, the Directorate of Public Works of the Ministry of Public Works,
the National Program for the fight against HIV/AIDS of the Ministry of Health, the railways
company (CFCO) and the Directorate for Studies and Planning of the Ministry of Education.
These committees will be briefed on technical designs and participate in the procurement process
(without interfering with it), and supervision of works and reception of goods.
50.   The railways component has been totally defined and goods to be acquired are well
identified. Bidding documents will be sent out and goods can be deliverecl in four to five months
after credit effectiveness. Detailed technical studies and bidding documents for primary and
secondary urban roads and drainage, tertiary urban roads and drainage, interurban and rural
roads, and erosion prevention will start by May 2002, and schools rehabilitation and HIV/A1DS
related activities would start by November 2002. Detailed technical studies and bidding
documents will be prepared by consultants recruited on a competitive basis. Other consultants
will be recruited to assist the PIU in evaluating bids, preparing works contracts and supervising
works. ILO will provide support to build capacity of local contractors to carry out labor-intensive
15



public works related to paving tertiary urban roads, drainage and rehabilitation of rural roads.
Annual technical audits will be conducted by auditors of experience and qualification acceptable
to IDA to review compliance with procurement procedures detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual and quality of works undertaken.
III.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
51.   Procurement. Particular care has been given to procurement arrangements under this
project to ensure an immediate but transparent response to the emergency and recovery situation.
Implementation should be fast, efficient and transparent throughout the project.  The
Government has signed a decree exempting the PrU from following the national procurement
code in order to give full authority to advertise, evaluate and sign contracts to the Project
Implementation Unit. This decision is particularly sensitive and will expedite procurement
processes. The signing and publication of this decree was a condition of negotiation.
52.   In consulting assignments, national procedures (consistent with IDA guidelines) will be
used. Short-term assignments will be awarded using consultant qualifications selection method.
"Quality and Cost-Based" selection will represent the most used approach and will be limited to
long-term, time-based assignments and recruitment of international firms. Prior review by the
Bank will be limited to higher cost contracts (equivalent and more than US$100,000 for goods,
equivalent and more than US$400,000 for works, equivalent and more than US$100,000 for
consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants). Procurement procedures and
methods are detailed in Annex G. In addition, procurement post reviews and SOE reviews will
be carried out, at least, once a year.
53.   Disbursement. The IDA credit will finance 100 percent of all expenditures. The
disbursement schedule will be as follows: 5 percent in FY02; 25 percent in FY03; 40 percent in
FY04; 20 percent in FY05; and 10 percent in FY06.
54.   Effectiveness Conditions: The conditions for credit effectiveness include the following:
(i) The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) The Borrower has submitted the first year's procurement plan, satisfactory to IDA.
IV.    Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting
55.   Accounting and financial management of project funds will be the responsibility of the
Finance section of the PIU under the CFO. The project has selected a CFO and an Accountant
with adequate qualifications and experience to undertake their respective tasks.  Project
management and IDA will monitor developments, and recruitment of additional financial staff
will take place as soon as this becomes necessary with increase in project transactions volume.
56.   The Finance Section will (i) develop appropriate procedures, acceptable IDA, for
recording project expenditures, internal controls to be spelled out in the Project Implementation
Manual and manage of the Special Account, ensuring that project expenditures are incurred for
the purposes intended under the project, in accordance with established procedures, and that
16



adequate supporting (locumentation is retained for verif'ication by supervision missions and
extemnal auditors.
57.   IDA's requirement, as regards to submission of quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs), has been briefly explained to Government staff preparing the project. This will need a
more in depth dialogue with the financial staff once recruited. It is expected that the project will
commence submitting FMRs beginning with the first full (calendar) quarter after effectiveness.
IDA will provide further guidance to improve and bring these FMRs to a level acceptable to
IDA. The Bank's FMS has also indicated to the Government that the financial staff (soon after
their recruitment) will need to conmmence work on establishing an adequate accounting system,
acquiring an appropriate accounting software capable of maintaining project accounts and
generating financial data and periodic reports required by IDA.
58.   Financial statements of the project will be audited by independent external auditors,
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The Finance Section will establish the procedures to
ensure that project expenditures incurred are submitted and consolidated in time for external
audits. Audit reports will include a management report and separate opinions on use of SOEs and
Special Account will be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of each financial
year. It is expected that the first audit will be undertaken for financial statement as of December
31, 2002, and at the end of every six months thereafter. The Borrower has established a financial
management system satisfactory by IDA, to ensure adequate financial management of the
project.
59.   Special Account. The Project will have ore Special Account managed by the PIU. This
Special Account will be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational guidelines.
V.    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
60.   Monitoring implementation progress of the proposed Project will be carried out through a
computerized Management Information System (MIS) established in the PIU. The MIS will
provide baseline informnation for quarterly and annual financial and activity reports. The
quarterly and annual reports will include information on project performance indicators. Project
impact will be related to the quantity of merchandise transported by the railways. This
information will be collected by the CFCO. Output indicators will be prepared by the PIU, based
on information and data provided by consultants supervising the different components. Output
indicators will be related to length of roads and drainage facilities built as well as number of
employment generated by the project. Impact and output indicators are presented in Annex H.
Technical audits performed by independent consultants will take place every year and will
review procurement efficiency and effectiveness as well as the quality of the works.
VII. Environmental Aspects
61.   The project is classified as environmental category B, based on the ISDS approved
January 9, 2002 and submitted to the Infoshop. Most of the works will be on rehabilitation of
existing roads and fixing existing drainage. Railway activities will not require land acquisition,
as most activities will consist of replacing radio-telecommunication equipment, sleepers and
fasteners and acquiring spare parts for track maintenance equipment. Existing railway transport
17



capacity will be more secured and no additional capacity of the railway is foreseen. Higher
logging, as a consequence of improved railway security, will not happen because no additional
transportation capacity will be financed by the project. The Transparency and Govemance
Project and the Economic and Sector Work on Natural Resource Management, to be financed by
the Bank, will help the Government strengthen its capacity to monitor logging and better
implement the new forestry law. These supports will reduce the risk of increased logging. The
project will improve the overall environmental condition in Brazzaville as construction and
rehabilitation of ditches will limit flooding and drain stagnant water. An Environmental
Assessment (EA) and, as appropriate, a Resettlement Framework or Plan (in the event of any
permanent or temporary land acquisition, displacement of people or loss of access to resources in
accordance with OP 4.12) for the entire project will be completed six months after credit
effectiveness. Because this operation is being processed under OP 8.50, the safeguards
documentation will be prepared during implementation (rather than prior to appraisal). In
addition, detailed technical studies will assess specific environmental impacts and address them
through environmental management plans. The EA process will entail public consultations.
The EA and Resettlement Framework (or documentation within the EA that shows no need for a
Resettlement Framework) will be submitted to the Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement
(ASPEN) team for review and clearance prior to disclosure of the EA and Resettlement
Framework (if any) at the Infoshop and to affected groups and local NGOs in country.
VII. Sustainability
62.   Under the proposed project, responsibility for operation and maintenance of drainage
facilities will rest with the Municipality of Brazzaville, who will subcontract cleaning activities
to private enterprises. These companies will be selected on a competitive basis, for two to three-
year renewable contracts. Government has overhauled the maintenance system by clarifying the
lines of authority and responsibility and by dismantling the unit in charge of maintaining the road
network on a force account basis. Government is also in the process of selling the remaining
equipment of this unit. Under this new approach, urban road maintenance will be carried out by
the Municipality of Brazzaville and contracted out to private operators, while national roads will
continue to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment. Interurban
road maintenance will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and
Equipment, who will use private contractors to carry out activities. For rural roads, the existing
arrangement involving beneficiaries and small enterprise contracting will be continued. Financial
resources needed for maintaining national, secondary and urban roads are collected and managed
by a Road Fund. The European Union will provide support to the Road Fund to better collect
funds, improve its operational capacity, financial management and transparency in the use of its
financial resources.
VIII. Government Ownership and Participatory Approach
63.   Government ownership of the proposed Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and
Living Conditions Improvement Project is adequate and will ensure its successful
implementation. Despite the lack of support from international donors (since 2000), the
Government has demonstrated its ability to rehabilitate infrastructure by using its own resources.
The Government had rehabilitated and reconstructed many urban roads and major social
infrastructure. During project identification and appraisal missions, discussions were carried out
18



with trade unions, local and international NGOs, the private sector, as well as donors in the field.
The Government has agreed to waive the project from the use of the national procurement code
to help expedite the implementation of the project. The Government established a Project
Preparation Unit just after the identification mission and has selected the PIU staff before
negotiations. The Government is in the process of signing the contracts of staff recruited on a
competitive basis to fill all the positions in the PIU. The municipality of Brazzaville has agreed
to substantially increase budget allocations for roads and drainage maintenance and to contract
out maintenance activities to the private sector. Particular care has been given to procurement
arrangements under this project to ensure an immediate but transparent response to the
emergency and recovery situation. Implementation should be fast, efficient and transparent
throughout the project. The Government has adopted and published a decree exempting the PIU
from following the national procurement code in order to give full authority to advertise,
evaluate and sign contracts to the Project Implementation Unit. This decision is particularly
sensitive and will expedite procurement processes.
H.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
I.    Benefits
64.   Potential benefits of support to the Republic of Congo in the form of the proposed Project
largely outweigh the risks. By focusing its financing priority areas (e.g. infrastructure, such as
roads and railways, social infrastructure and private sector rehabilitation), the project will
eventually jump-start the economy and create conditions for long-term development, while at the
same time tackling immediate economic and social needs of the most vulnerable people by
creating employment. Reestablishing a well functioning railway system between Pointe-Noire
(the port and the oil producing center) and Brazzaville is paramount to any economic
development and industrial activity in Brazzaville and in the country. In addition, a well
functioning railway system will increase availability of petroleum products to the Central
African Republic (CAR), and help reduce erratic variations of gasoline price and repeated
shortages of petroleum products in this country. Spill over effects will help create a more stable
economic and political environment in CAR, in particular, and security in Congo and in the
region as a whole. More specifically, the project will benefit local entrepreneurs and national
consulting firms, and improve living conditions in densely populated districts of Brazzaville and
in the regions. Benefits encompassing the Republic of Congo (and spread over the region) are
expected from the project because greater stability and peace in the Republic of Congo, as a
consequence of the project, will constitute a good example to follow for countries embattled in
conflicts in the troubled Central and Great Lakes region.
II.   Risks and Mitigation Measures
65.   In light of the Republic of Congo's fragile political situation and its relatively weak
implementation capacity, the proposed credit is at considerable risk. The first risk is political
and social, and can be associated with the failure of the transition process to democracy and to
building a political system that would resolve differences without recourse to violence. Such
failure could lead to renewed conflict, destruction of rebuilt infrastructure and slippage in project
implementation.  Faced with continued political and social instability, the Government's
determination to sustain implementation of emergency rehabilitation may be questioned. The
national dialogue on a new constitution and the convention for peace and national reconciliation,
19



held in April 2001, provides reassurances and illustrates the Government's commitment to
building a stable and peaceful political system. A constitution was approved on January 20,
2002, and Presidential elections took place on March 10, 2002.
66.   The second risk is the weak institutional and administrative capacity that could lead to
delays in project implementation. To mitigate this risk, the proposed Project would use (i)
simplified implementation arrangements to accommodate the limited capacity with only one
PIU, staffed with personnel selected on a competitive basis and assisted by short-term technical
assistance; and (ii) streamlined procurement processes by giving full responsibility to the PIU
and up front adoption of standard bidding documents. A third risk is linked to the difficulty of
the Government to service its debt with the Bank on time and the suspension of disbursements
for the project. Support provided by the Bank through future Public Expenditure Reviews and
increased transparency in the collection and use of national resources that is foreseen from the
implementation of the Transparency and Government Project financed by the Bank, will help
mitigate this risk.
67.   While the risks are considerable in the Republic of Congo, the cost of no support from
the international community would exacerbate the violence, which has been under control since
the end of 1999. A lack of support from the international community would also create a lost
generation of uneducated youth who could be a danger to the society in years to come, as social
systems further fall into disarray. Uncontrolled violence and continued instability in the
Republic of Congo would also have severe implications for peace in the delicate Great Lakes
region and the entire Central Africa.
20



ANNEX A - TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the Credit:     9 months
Project prepared by:                  Government and IDA staff
Decision Meeting:                     October 11, 2001
Appraisal:                            October 19, 2001
Negotiations:                         March 6-7, 2002
Board Presentation:                   April 30, 2002
Effectiveness                         Jtne 15, 2002
Project Completion:                   June 15, 2006
This operation was prepared by a team led by Eustache Ouayoro (Task Team
Leader, AFTU2) and including Solange Alliali (Senior Counsel, LEGOP), Jainaba
Kah (Urban Specialist, AFTU2), Renee Desclaux (Disbursement Officer, LOAAF),
Abdul Haji (Senior Financial Management Specialist), Francesco Sarno (Lead
Procurement Specialist), AFTQK), Ernestina Attafuah, (Senior Program Assistant,
AFTU2), Armele Vilceus (Program Assistant, AFTU2), Alassane Diawara (Resident
Representative for Republic of Congo, AF09), Karim Jacques Budin (Lead Railway
Specialist, TUDTR), Mamadou Sev6de (Consultant), and Dossou Yovo (Road
Engineer, Consultant). The Advisory Committee is composed of Solange Alliali
(LEGOP), Salomon Samen (AFTM3), Karim Budin (AF'JTR), Claude Sorel
(AFTPS), Abdou Salam Drabo (AFTM3) and Willem Zijp (AFTQK). The Sector
Manager was Letitia A. Obeng and the Country Director was Emmanuel Mbi.
21



ANNEX B - SOCIAL INDICATORS
Republic of Congo: Selected Poverty and Living Standard Indicators
Republic of   Sub-Saharan
Congo          Africa
(in percent, unless otherwise specified)  Latest single year (1997-1999)
Population in millions (1999)                 2.85           642
Population growth (1999)                      2.8            2.4
Fertility rate (1998)                         6.0            5.4
GNP Per Capita in US$ (1999) (Atlas method)   670            500
GNP in US$ billions (1999) (Atlas method)     1.9            321
Poverty rate                                  ...
Extreme poverty rate (1995)                    70
Child malnutrition (1999)                      16            32
Infant mortality rate (per thousand, 1999)     81            106
Infant immunization against measles           58.4           48
Life Expectancy at birth (years, 1998)        48.6           50.4
HIV/AIDS (between 15-49 age) (1997)           7.8             8
Public Health Expenditure (% of GDP) (1999)   1.2            2.4
Physicians (per 1,000 people)                 28.6            32
Urban population (1999)                       73.4            34
Access to sanitation (1999)                   65              35
Access to safe water (1997)                    46            43
Telephone lines (per 1000 people)             4.0            14
Literacy rate (1999)                          59.5            61
Public Education Expenditure (% of GDP) (1999)  3.0          6.1
Gross primary school enrollment (1998)        78.6           78
Male                                          81.9            85
Female                                        75.5            71
Sources: World Development Indicators (World Bank) and UNDP.
22



Annex C - Republic of Congo at a glance                                                                     10/9/01
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Congo,   Saharan      Low-
Rep.     Africa   Incorne     Development dlcmond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.9       659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     630        480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bilions)                        1.8       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population I%)                                          2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         2.7       2.6       2.4     GNI     i                       Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita             ..        enrollment
Poverty (% of p,pulation below national poverty line)   ..         -.
Urban population (% of total population)                63        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        48        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                89        92        77
Chid malnutrition (% of ctnldren uvnrer5)                     ..        ..               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% o0 population)    51         55        76
Illiteracy (% of population aqe 15+)                    19        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  114         78        96                  RepublicofCongo
Male                                                 120        85        102            -   - Low-income gmup
Female                                               109        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratIos'
GDP (US$ billions)                            1.7       2.8       2.2       2.8
Gross domestc investment/GDP                 35.8      15.9      27.6      17.3                     Trad
Exports of goods and servicesvGDP            60.0     53.7       72.4      83.2                      rae
Gross domestic savingsvGDP                   35.7      23.8      48.1      60.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   26.2       6.6      13.6      19.0
Current account balanoe/GDP                   -9.8     -9.3     -26.3     -11.5     Domestc                     Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         2.2       4.3      22.0      14.5 o
Total debWGDP                                89.5     138.9     248.2     187.3     ssvings
Total debt servicelexports                   10.6      35.3      23.4      21.0
Present value of debVGDP                             .          216.5
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        .      285.4
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.3     -0.4      -3.2       7.6       4.1                   Republic of Congo
GDP per capia                        0.2     -3.2      -6.0       4.5       0.4                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        5.1      5.6      0.7        4.0       0.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     GrowthotInvestmentandGOP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          Iso
Agriculture                                  11.7     12.9        8.4       5.4
Industry                                     46.6     40.6       61.3      71.9    00
Manufacturing                                7.5      8.3       5.5       3.5     so
Services                                     41.7     46.5       30.4      22.7      D,-A
Private consumption                          46.8     62.4       36.9      28.1     so      ss 5 9     9    s
General government consumpbon                17.6     13.8       17.0      11.3               -   GDI         O  GDP
Imports of goods and services                60.1     45.8       53.9      39.9
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.4       1.3      -6.5       8.4    r,.
Industry                                      5.2      2.6        1.3       4.4
Manufacturing                                6.8     -2.8      -5.5      20.9     so
Services                                      2.1      -5.5      -9.4      12.6      o
Private consumption                           3.3     -1.5      -11.1      20.1                  96   7    96         05
General govemment consumption                 2.5     -6.6      -13.2       2.8    450
Gross domestic investment                   -12.6     17.9      -19.0     -10.1             -Exports       Il-ports
Imports of goods and services                -4.4      9.5      -16.0       3.0    -
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
23



Republic of Congo
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      l   onn (%)
Dornestic prices
f% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prices                               7.3     -4.8       3.1      0.3 
Implicit GDP deflator                        20.1    -0.9       30.2     44.6     25
Government tlnance                                                                 o
(% of GDP, inchudes current grants)                                                 .           ea    97  s      9s
Current revenue                                ..    27.4       26.9     27.0     25
Current budget balance                         ..     -2.4       0.3      8.2                  GDP deflator --*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        .      -6.6      -5.9      1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    1,363     1,563    2,559     3,000
Fuel                                          .    t1,050    1,434    2,403
Timber                                        .      161       147      156
Manufactures                                 *-      35          -                                                 _
Total imnports (cit)                            .     580       955       966
Food                                          .      30         21       23     1,9o                L    ILL
Fuel and energy                               .      129       221      229
Capital goods                                 .     237        412      353
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..     113        97       152
Import price index (1995-100)                  .       96        90        92                UExport      U imports
TermsoItrade(1995-100)                         ..     118       108       166
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Curront account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               1,021    1,502     1,668    2,636      c
Imports of goods and services               1,025   1,282      1,480    1,636              m *
Resource balance                              -4      220       188     1,000     - -                      *         -
Net income                                  -162     -475      -771    -1,327     -2.
Net current transfers                         -1       -7         5         4        .
Current account balance                      -167    -261      -578      -323
Financing nems (net)                         226      261       537       14fi   *40.
Changes in net reserves                      -59        0        41       178    _50
Memo.
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        93       10        45      223
Conversion rate (DEC, local!US$)            211.3   272.3      615.7    709.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,526   3,889      5,460    5,243                      A 30
IBRD                                        39      164        66       30                           B: 156
IDA                                         22       75       166      156                 F:555        C:92
Total debt service                           109      531       391       460
IBRD                                         8       16         6        4                  _
IDA                                          0        1         1         1                  _
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..
Official creditors                          88       55      -136      -146
Private creditors                          400     -267      -179       183
Foreign direct investment                   ..
Portfolio equity                            ..        .         ..       ..                    E 4,000
World Bank program
Commitments                                 35       16         0         0     A- IBRD                     E - Wlateral
Disbursements                                3        2         0         0     E- IDA    D - Other multblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         4        6         0        3      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   -1       -5         0        -3
Interest payments                            4       13         5        2
Net transfers                               -5      -17        -5        -5
AFTM3                                                                                                              10/9/01
24



ANNEX D - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator                1996    1997     1998    1999    2000    2001     2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product                    100      100     100     100      100     100     100      100     100
Agriculture                                9       9      11        8       5       6       6        6       5
Industry                                 51       57      46       61      72      67      63       58      55
Services                                 40       34      43       30      23      27      31       36      40
Total Consumption                          61       61      75      54       39      47      65       70      74
Gross domestic fixed investment            26      28       35      26       16      18      17      17       16
Government investment                      5       4       2        3       4       5        5       5       5
Private investment                        21      24      33       23      12      13       12      12      11
Exports (GNFS)                             64      72       65      72       83      79      75      66       60
Imports (GNFS)                             51      61       78      54      40       46      58      53       50
Gross domestic savings                     39       39      25      46       61      53      35       30      26
Gross national savings                      4        6       4      13       18       9       9       12      11
Memoranidum items
Gross domestic product                   2541    2323     1950    2357     3176    2931    3149    2856     2966
(lUS$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)          ..      ..     690     670      630                   ..
Real annual growth rates (%. calculated from 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -4.3   -2.4      351    -3.2     7.6      3.1     2.7     4.5      6.5
Gross Domestic Income                   41.8    -1.8    -18.2    20.0     9.0      4.0     5.3     6.1      6.0
Real aiinual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -6.8   -5.2      1.1    -6.0     4.5      0.1    -0.3      1.5     3.4
Total consumption                      -12.1     -5.9    -4.8   -14.1    13.6      3.7     4.8     3.8      6.6
Privateconsumption                      20.9   -42.0      9.5   -13.7     16.6     4.4     5.6     4.4      7.1
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports iGNFS)'                         1622    1670     1257    1668    2636     2498    2373    2241     2210
Merchandise FOB                       1564    1587     11550   1562    2559     2390    2214    2062     2023
Imports (GNFS)5                        1308     1377    1613     1480    1636    1629     1811    1801    1841
Merchandise FOB                        586     649      559     699     767      822     903     882      907
Resource balance                         314     293     -356     188    1000      869     562     441      369
Net current transfers                    -16      -2        9       5       4      -18     -19      -20     -19
Current account balance                 -593    -475     -755    -592    -346     -421    -280    -175     -205
Net private foreign direct investment    587     145      299      85     101      140     146       87     136
Long-term loans (net)                     ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
Official                               -285    -224     -162    -136    -146     -138    -139     -150    -157
Private                                   ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
Other capital Ue- -n1 e--ors & o....sson..
Change in reserves                       -17      20       69     -60    -169     -165    -102     -170     -33
Memoranzdum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)               12.4    12.6   -18.2      8.0    31.5    29.6     17.9    15.4     12.4
Real alnual growth rates ( YR78 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                19.3     7.9     6 7     -1.6     5.4     2.3      4.2    -5.4    -0.9
Primary                                14.8     13.9    15 5     5.3     -3.3   -10.4     12.8    -0.5    -9.6
Manufactures                            0.0     0.0      0 0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)              119.1    -30.3    -87       6.1    -0.6    -2.3      5.8     1.3     0.4
(Continued)
25



Republic of Congo - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1996    1997    1998    1999   20J0    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public ftnance (as % of GDP at market prlcesr
Current revenues                      27.9    28.6    22.9    26.9   27.0    29.9    28.1    26.4    25.0
Current expenditures                  24.8    34.3    38.1   26.7    18.9    16.4    15.4    15.5    15.2
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  3.0  -5.7  -15.2  0.3     8.2    13.5    12.7    10.8     9.8
Capital expenditure                    8.0     3.4     4.7     6.1    7.1     9.4    10.2     8.9     8.4
Foreign financing                     75.4    11.0   -13.3   -12.2  -10.7    -8.0    41.0    -5.2    -2.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                14.2    14.2    14.6    13.9    9.7    12.1    11.8    11.2    11.3
Growth of M2(%)                       15.7     4.5   -12.8    19.9    9.2    12.0     9.0     8.5     9.3
Private sector credit growth /        83.7    28.9    66.1  -45.6    45.6    52.9    94.7   139.2    53.7
total credit growth (%)
Price Indices( YR78 =100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex          132.0   124.1    84.4   116.4  182.8   165.3   147.0   144.6   143.2
Merchandiseimportpriceindex          125.4   114.7   111.7   113.7   115.7  118.0   120.3   122.7   124.9
Merchandise terms of trade index     105.2   108.2    75.5   102.4  157.9   140.1   122.2   117.8   114.6
Real exchange rate (US$fLCU)f         73.5    75.9    78.1    79.0   79.2    79.5    79.7    79.9    80.1
Real interest rates
6onsumer price index (% change)       10.2    13.2     1.8    3.1     0.3     2.0     2.0     2.0     2.0
GDP deflator (% change)               20.2     6.9   -18.2    30.2   44.6   -12.4     4.2     3.3     1.9
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
26



ANNEX E- STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN REPUBLIC OF CONGO
Since 1997, the Republic of Congo has been in non-accrual status. As a result, all project
disbursements came to a halt in 1997. The last project in the portfolio, the Privatization and
Capacity Building Project, approved by the Board in 1995, was closed at the end of 1999. An
IDF Post Conflict emergency grant, amounting to US$0.9 million, to finance technical assistance
in support of reconstruction and on-going economic reform efforts, was approved in June 1998,
but could not be implemented as a new cycle of violence resurged in December 1998. With a
return to normalcy, the signing at the end of 1999 of a peace accord, and cessation of hostilities,
which are holding very firmly, another IDF Post Conflict emergency grant, amounting to US$1
million,   was    approved     in  February     2001.      In   addition,   a  US$5     million    Emergency
Demobilization, Disarmament and Reintegration Credit (Cr 3561 COB), and a US$37.5 million
Post Conflict ERC, were approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on July 31, 2001. The
Transparency and Governance Transparency Credit was approved on February 7, 2002.
Republic etCeng.
Op.r.tlne PortiolIo IBRDDA and Grnt.)
A. Of DGet. W14(2002
Clos d Projects  22
tBRDiiDA
TOW( D,,-bused (Actie)  0 20
of thes ee  epaid  0 00
Total Dbcatd IClored)  412 80
ol which h.. bee., epad  248 80
Tola Disbused (A8,. . Closed)  413 01
of which bee been pepeJ  248 88
rotOWalJthdtbree  (At.e) e  77
TWOe Urdbore,ed (Closed)  8 00
Total Uoisb-.ed (Ad-re . Closed)  11 77
Active P_ _ -_ t                                                                                      DiMer.ne- Between
lt PSR                                              E.peted end Acted
SupereIlon Reting          Orieleet Amount in US$ Millie. D,ibburee,.et.
ProJt ID            Prj d N.,n               Obl p-n   lmPlbmntetleen F-.5. Y..,  IBRO  IDA ORANT Can ol. Undieb.  Orig. Fr. Ree d
Emergency Demob & Reinteg
P074639             Project                     S         S        2002            5                4.8   0.2
Transparency and Governance
P073507             Capacity BuI               #                   2002            7                 7
Overall result                                                    Result          12               118     02
27



ANNEX F- PROCUREMENT
GENERAL
1.1   A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for the Republic of Congo has not
been carried out since 1987. The country's procurement procedures do not conflict with Bank
Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit
documents, since the Republic of Congo's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. The Country's Procurement
capacity has been weakened substantially following the civil war in 1997.
1.2.  Substantial capacity rebuilding will be needed to recreate procurement proficiency at the
central and sector levels. It is anticipated that during the Transparency and Governance Capacity
Building Project (TGCBP), capacity of the public procurement system will be assessed and an
action plan prepared to develop a training program to strengthen capacity and help reduce the
procurement risk level for Government and future IDA-financed investments. In 1982, a legal
text created a procurement committee (Commission Nationale des Marches) under the
responsibility of the Presidency and chaired by a representative of the MEFB.
1.3.  Several Committee members are reportedly not familiar with Bank guidelines and
procedures on procurement and disbursement. Since Committee members will not be involved
in the project as TGCB project will help build the required capacity. PIU Staff will also receive
intensive training in procurement procedures under the current project. In order to strengthen
capacity to handle procurement activities, a Procurement Specialist will be recruited to work
under the supervision of the PIU coordinator. The procurement specialist will be assisted by
short-term consultants.
1.4.  Goods and Works, financed by IDA, will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents,
and Standard Evaluation Reports will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB),
advertised locally, will be carried out in accordance with the Republic of Congo's procurement
laws and regulations acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and
the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any
bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submnission of bids; (iii)
bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no
preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers and domestic contractors; (v) All firms
are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder, in
accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; and (vii) bid evaluation reports will
clearly state the reasons for rejecting any non-responsive bid. Sample bidding documents for
NCB (works and goods) were prepared and agreed upon during negotiations and will be used as
standard documents during project implementation.
1.5.  Consultant Services Contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997, and January 1999). The Standard Request for
Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants as well as the
Sample formn of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants. Simplified contracts will be
28



used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms
or individual consultants.
1.6.  A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations
(UN) Development Business before credit effectiveness, to advertise for any Goods, and
Works to be procured through ICB and for major consulting assignment to obtain
Expression of Interest (EOI). The GPN will also be published in the national press for
contract to be executed under NCB. The GPN will be updated every year. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) for contracts for 'Works (above US$400,000) and Goods
(above US$100,000) and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for large contract for consultant
services (above US$ 100,000) will also be advertised in UN Development Business and
sufficient time will be allowed for responses to such notice (minimum 30 days) before
developing the short list.
Procurement Implementation Arrangement
1.7   Responsibility for all procurement will rest with the PIU, which shall be legally
established by July 31, 2002. The PIU will continue preparation of the project and will
be responsible for project implementation. A procurement specialist will be recruited. In
order to ensure that the PIU staff are fully aware of all procuremient Guidelines, a
procurement session will be organized during the project launch, which, is scheduled to
be conducted before September 30, 2002.  During the first 18 months of project
implementation, the PIU will be assisted by short-term internationally recruited
procurement consultants. This arrangement will be evaluated every year and during the
mid-term review and if needed, appropriate actions will be implemented in order to
strengthen the PIU's capacity to handle effectively and efficiently procurement activities.
1.8   Information regarding procurement adm:nistration will be collected, recorded and
sent to IDA through quarterly reports. These reports will include information about (i)
complaints/disputes; (ii) performance of contractors/consultants; (iii) procurement issues;
(iv) revised cost estimates for contracts; (v) revised timing of procurement actions and
completion times; (vi) updated procurement plan for the year; and (vii) compliance with
aggregate limits on specified procurement methods.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PIU
1.9   An assessment of PIU's capacity to implement project procureiment in accordance
with the criteria outlined in Annex 3 of LACI Implementation Hand Book was completed
(detailed report is in the project files). The review addressed the legal aspects,
procurement cycle management, organization and function of the procurement staff in the
actual Project Preparation Unit (PPU), support and control systems, record keeping and
staffing of the PIU. The review assessed the risks (institutional, procedural) that may
negatively affect the ability of the PIU to carry out procurement activities. The risks
identified in the assessment are the following: (i) abusive use of sole source/direct
contracting; (ii) inadequate submission period for bids; (iii) lack of sufficiently qualified
procurement specialists in the country; (iv) lack of training of staff handling procurement
matters; (v) long contract signing delays; and (vi) inconsistency of the country
29



procurement legislation, which has not been revised since 1983. A portfolio review of
IDA financed investment projects completed before 1997 has confirmed that procurement
capacity is generally weak in the country. This has led, among other factors, to slower
disbursements, in some cases to misuse of funds. In addition, the economic and political
atmosphere in the country, in which the law operates, is not conducive to fair and
transparent procurement processes. Therefore, the Republic of Congo appears as a "high
risk" country from a procurement point of view.
1.10 The prior review thresholds recommended are those applicable to a "high risk"
country. In collaboration with the actual Project Preparation Unit, an action plan to
address deficiencies has been prepared to strengthen the PIU's capacity to administer
procurement in an effective and transparent way. The plan includes: (i) the recruitment of
a procurement specialist (to be adequately trained to effectively handle procurement); (ii)
the provision to the PIU of the Bank's standard procurement documents during project
negotiations; (iii) organization of procurement training sessions during the project launch
workshop that will take place before credit effectiveness; (iv) participation of a Bank
procurement specialist in supervision missions twice a year during the first 18 months of
the project to conduct post reviews and to provide guidance and support to the PIU in
carrying out procurement activities; (v) preparation of a Project Implementation (PIM)
which will cover procurement activities; (vi) development of a procurement and contract
management information system to be integrated in the computerized financial
management system to be set up for the project; (vii) organization of a filing system to
ensure availability of, and easy access to procurement records; and (viii) review of a
minimum of one in every three contracts representing different procurement methods (not
subject to prior review) during supervision missions on an ex-post basis.
Procurement Plan
1.11  The procurement plan for the first year was prepared during appraisal and will be
finalized before effectiveness. The exact mix of procurement will be determined on an
annual basis during annual joint reviews between the PIU, and IDA, where a draft
procurement plan for the following financial year will be developed and submitted to IDA
for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information on goods, civil works
and consulting services under the project, as well as the timing of the procurement
process. The procurement schedule will be updated semi-annually for the first 18 months
and quarterly thereafter for PMR based disbursement. This plan will be reviewed by IDA
during each supervision mission.
1.12  The conditions for effectiveness related to procurement is that a procurement plan
for the first year of the project acceptable to IDA should be produced.
1.13 The Government assured IDA during negotiations that it will: (i) use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents, for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the
selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Report; (ii) apply procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; (iii) update the
procurement plan on a regular basis during the annual review with IDA, compare target
dates and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA during implementation; and (iv) carry
30



out (during annual reviews) an assessment of the effectiveness of the bidding procedures
and performance as they relate to project procurement experience, and propose for IDA's
consideration any modifications to the current procedures to the extent that would
accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, adequate contract award and payments.
1.14 The Government agrees to use NCB documents acceptable to IDA and
streamlined procedures for contracts signing.
2.    Procurement Methods
2.1   The methods to be used for procurement (described below) and estimated
amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for
the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
2.2   Civil Works. Civil work contracts estimated to cost more than US$400,000 will
be procured through International Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines.
2.3   Civil work contracts estimated to cost less that US$400,000, up to an aggregate of
US$9.22 million, will be procured through National Competitive Bidding procedures in
accordance with procedures described in the PIM and acceptable to IDA.
2. 4. Goods. The total cost of goods for the project is estimated at US$14.33 million.
Procurement of goods will be bulked, where feasible, into packages valued at
US$100,000 equivalent or more per package and will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding. Contracts for goods and equipment for railways, up to an aggregate
amount of US$0.44 million, which can only be provided by the specific manufacturers of
the trains, will be procured through direct contracting in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of
the Bank's Guidelines. Goods and equipment, locally available, which cannot be grouped
together into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent, will be awarded on the basis of
NCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.48 million equivalent.
2.5. Procurement for small quantities of items, such as office equipment, furniture,
printed materials and other instructional material normally considered to be standard
items which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, will be
procured through prudent National Shopping and in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines, provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed
US$0.36 million equivalent. International shopping, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.6 of the guidelines up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.55 million
equivalent, will be used for the supply of specialized equipment, Lab material and
railway equipment for the HIV/AIDS and Railway components. Solicitations will be
issued in writing to at least three reputable suppliers in order to receive price quotations.
Solicitation will give specifications and the delivery time. Written quotations will be
opened at the same time for evaluation, and records of award decisions will be kept for
31



the Bank's supervision missions and audits. Specific shopping procedures to be followed
will be reflected in the procurement section of the PIM.
2.6   Subject to the agreed limits, the aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB
procurement methods for goods cannot be exceeded without the prior no-objection of the
Bank. The PIU will maintain a tracking system to monitor such procurement in order to
inform the Bank in a timely manner when this may occur.
2.7 The total aggregate amounts and the procedures followed for all
shopping methods under the project will be reviewed during project supervision;
depending on performance, and the result of the review, the total aggregate amount may
be adjusted where necessary.
Domestic Preference
2.8   The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.
Consultants Services and Training
2.9.  Consulting services to be financed by IDA (totaling, US$3.25 rnillion equivalent)
would be for detailed technical studies, supervision of works and hiring of individual
consultants. Consultants will be hired through competition based on Quality-and Cost-
Based Selection (QCBS) among qualified short-listed firms; by evaluating the quality of
the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluations; and by weighting the quality
and cost scores. Least-Cost Selection (LCS), in accordance with para.3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines, will be used for audit contracts costing less than US$50,000. The
firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal receives the
minimum mark. Services for training and supervising local contractors to prepare and
implement labor-intensive public works to cost not more than US$90,000 may be
procured to ILO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.13 of the Consultant
guidelines.
2.10  The selection of Individual Consultants Services for small studies and specialized
advisory service (special assignments, technical assistance to the municipalities, the
NMinistry of Public Works and the PIU) will be on the basis of comparison of curriculum
vitae in accordance with para.5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. The PIU will
ensure widely publicized procurement notices to candidacy from consultants (firms and
individuals). The PIU will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to
establish short-lists.
2.11  Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised of national
consultants (in accordance with paragraph. 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines) provided
that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms express interest, they will not be excluded from
32



consideration. The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP), as developed by the Bank, will
be used for requesting proposals and for selection and appointment of consulting firms.
Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, simple missions of standard
nature (i.e. those not exceeding six months) carried out by individual consultants or firms.
The Government were briefed during negotiations about the special features of the
guidelines and the RFP, in particular with regard to advertisement, public bid opening,
and evaluation criteria.
2.12  Training, workshops, and study tours will be carried out on the basis of approved
annual work programs that identify the general framework of training or similar activities
for the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of
participants and cost estimates.
3.    IDA Prior Reviews
3. 1.  Contracts financed by IDA, above the threshold value of US$400,000 and US$
100,000 equivalent for civil works and goods respectively, will be subject to IDA prior
review. Contracts below these specified thresholds will be subject to post review during
IDA's supervision missions with the exception of the first three NCB contracts, the first
three contracts awarded under national shopping, and all contracts awarded under
international shopping.
3. 2.  With respect to consultant services, prior IDA review will apply to contracts for
the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost US$100.000
equivalent or more and US$50,000 equivalent or more, respectively. Prior review will
also apply to the Terms of Reference of contracts (regardless of the value), to single-
source hiring, to all contracts for PIU staff and contracts for audits, or to amendments of
contracts rising the contract value above the prior review threshold. For consultant
contracts (firms) estimated above US$100,000, opening of financial envelopes will not
take place prior to receiving the Bank's no objection to the technical evaluation. For
contracts with consulting firms, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and more than
US$50,000, the Borrower will notify IDA of the results of technical evaluation prior to
opening financial proposals. Prior review will apply for the first three contracts under
Individual Consultants.
3.3.  All out of country training will be subject to prior review by IDA. Post reviews
will be conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course,
contents/trainees, justifications, and costs incurred.
3.4   Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be
maintained by the PIU for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions.
33



4.      Project Implementation Manual: Procurement
4.1     The PIM, to be prepared by the Borrower, as a condition of effectiveness will
include a specific section on Procurement detailing: (i) procedures for planning, calling
for bids, selecting contractors, consultants, and vendors, and awarding contracts; (ii)
internal organization for supervision and control of works; and (iii) procedures for
handing over completed works.
4.2     The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take
necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target
time periods:
Procurement Phases                        Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of Bidding Documents          4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of Bids by Bidders            4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid Evaluation                            2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of Contracts                    2
Payments                                  2
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement     Methodl
Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB       Other2            N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                    13.01            8.73           0.00          0.00           21.75
(13.01)          (8.73)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (21.75)
2. Goods                     12.17           0.48           1.37          0.00           14.33
(12.17)          (0.48)        (1.37)         (0.00)         (14.33)
3. Consultants and           0.00            0.00           3.25          0.00            3.25
training_
(0.00)          (0.00)         (3.25)        (0.00)          (3.25)
Total                     25.19            9.22          4.62           0.00           39.03
(25.19)          (9.22)        (4.62)         (0.00)        (39.03)
1/    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank. All costs include contingencies
2/    Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national and intemational shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, and training.
34



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                          Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement          Prior Review
Expenditure        (US$ thousands)         Method            (US$ millions)
Category                            _
1. Works                   >400                 ICB               US$: 13.01
<400                 NCB                Post review
Prior Review for first three
contracts
2. Goods                   >100                 ICB                US$: 12.17
<100                 NCB                Post review
Prior review for first three
contracts
>30         International Shopping  Prior review
<30          National Shopping      Post review (first three
contracts)
3. Services                                                   _-
a) Firms                   >100                QCBS
<100                 QCBS               Post review
<50                LCSICQ               Post review
b) Individuals             >50                  3CVs                US$: 0.06
<50                 3CVs                Post review
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 27.38 millions
1. OVERALL PROCUREMENT RISK ASSESSMENT
High            X
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits). Post Reviews will
apply to one (1) contract out of three (3) not subject to prior review.
35



Disbursement
Credit Allocated          % of
Amount of the                (Expressed in        Expenditures
CategorY                 US$ Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works                        19,700,000            100%
(2)  Goods                         13,700,000           100%
(3)  Consultants'                  3,200,000            100%
services, and training
(4)  Operating costs                 350,000            100%
(5)  Refunding of                  1,030,000        Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation                            to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance                                        this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL                              40,000,000
36



ANNEX G: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, AUDITING AND REPORTING
Overall Project Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Arrangements and Flow of
Funds
1.    One Special Account will be established in local currency in a commercial Bank
and will be managed by the PIU according to normal procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.     Financial management, as well as disbursement of the project, will be
implemented by the PIU.
Basic Principles
3.    The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the PIU team will be entrusted with the
Project's overall financial management and reporting and will serve as the principal
contact for Bank disbursement purposes. Payments to beneficiaries will flow from the
Special Account (SA) and will be made according to predetermined disbursement
schedules, to be specified in respective proposals. Transfer payments will be effected
expeditiously when due, and fund management will follow transparent procedures that
will be standardized and detailed in the Project ][mplementation Manual.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
4.    Use of SOEs will be contingent upon a satisfactory assessment of the PIU's
financial management capacity, including the maintenance of proper accounts,
preparation of project progress reports, the ability to process and maintain SOE
documentation, and satisfactory annual auditingi arrangements. Provided these conditions
are met, SOEs will be used for all expenses. Furthermore, all expenses related to
contracts below prior-review thresholds would be claimed on the basis of SOEs and the
supporting documentation underlying all SOEs will be made available for review by
Bank supervision missions at any time. Supporting documentation will be retained by the
PIU. The primary responsibility of maintaining records rests on the CFO. The
satisfactory assessment of the financial management system will be a condition of
effectiveness.
5.    The Government would open a Special Account (SA) in the name of the PIU with
a commercial bank, to which project funds will be deposited. The objective of the
Special account is that most credit funds be disbursed through this procedure. Only
amounts exceeding 25 percent of the amount advanced to the Special Account could be
claimed through the direct payment procedure. The PIU will receive an initial advance to
commence operations. The advance will initially be kept to a limited amount while the
project activities get underway, but would be increased once full execution begins and
cumulated disbursements reach a predetermined threshold. The initial amount, the
disbursement threshold, and the maximum special account amount were agreed upon
during negotiations. For subsequent disbursements, the PIU would submit appropriate
37



justification on the use of amounts disbursed earlier (bank reconciliation statements and
other reasonable documentation) to IDA. An external auditor acceptable to IDA will
audit the Special Account annually. At the time replenishment of the SA is requested, the
PIll will indicate on their reconciliation statement the location and amounts outstanding
in any other project account.
38



ANNEX H: MONITORING AND EVALUATION; SOCIAL AND
ENVIRONM1ENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental and Social Aspects
1.    The Project is classified as environmental category B because no component is
expected to have a significant environmental impact. The only construction that is
envisaged is the reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-damaged roads, bridges, and
community infrastructure. In addition, the Project is expected to have a major positive
environmental impact through the drainage work and rehabilitation of roads and bridges.
2.    The social and environmental assessment will evaluate potential environmental
impacts associated with roads being rebuilt and potential impacts of the construction of
roads linking agricultural production areas to Brazzaville. However, given that most of
the rehabilitation and reconstruction will be on previously existing facilities, very few
people are expected to be displaced. An environmental impact assessment will be carried
out within six months of project effectiveness to evaluate any negative impact the railway
rehabilitation or other components of this project may have on the environment.
Relevant mitigation measures will be translated into implementation guidelines. The
social and environmental assessment will also be used to establish a baseline from which
to evaluate the success of the Project in reestablishing people's livelihoods.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Hierarchy of        Key performance      Monitoring and   Critical
objectives          indicators           Evaluation       Assumptions
TSS-related Goal
Support the         >    Establishment, of  Annual reports  Transparent and
consolidation of the     democratic                       inclusive political
home-grown peace        institutions                      process and timely
process and to the                                        implementation of
physical reconstruc-                                      the political
tion of the country                                       agenda
Project development
objective:
Contribute to the      Increased         Quarterly reports  Security
reestablishment of     economic          prepared by the  conditions will
basic economic and     activities:       PIU and the      continue to prevail
social services        By end-2003, 50%  CFCO             Government will
increase in                        continue to service
merchandise                        its debt with the
tonnage by railway                 Bank
line from Pointe-
Noire to
39



Brazzaville (based
on 2001 figures)
Output from each
component:
Rehabilitation of   >    Number of       Quarterly and    PIU will be
primary, secondary,      kilometers of   annual reports   effective.
tertiary and social      urban roads     prepared by the
infrastructure          rehabilitated (15) PIU            There will be
>   Number of                         qualified local
kilometers of                     contractors to
interurban and                   implement works.
rural roads                       There will be
rehabilitated                    limited
(480)                             interference from
>   Number of                         the Ministry of
kilometers of                     Public works and
urban drainage                    Equipment on the
rehabilitated (7)                 day-to-day
>   Number of                         management of
employment                        the PiU.
generated
(750,000
persons/day)
>    Amount of civil
works contracts
implemented by
local contractors
as main
contractors
(US$6 million
equivalent)
40



Annex I: Detailecl Project Costs
Foreign.          Local             Total
A. Primary Infrastructure
Works Supervision                          699,181.8         79,551.4           7-',733.3
Civil Works for Urban Roads              5,1 1,460.7       2,244,474.5        7,355,935.1
Civil Works for Interurban roads         2,756,007.1       1,210 180.C         39D6  1
Subtotal Primary Infrastructure            8,566,649.6       3,534,205 '        12,100,855.5
B. Railway
Goods and equipment                      12,178.740.8                         12.178 740.8
Civil Works                                776,945.4          _776,945.4
Subtotal Railway                          12.95;5,686.2                        12,955,686.2
C. Employment Generation
Civil Works                              6,621,042.8       2,906.66C          9,52),704.0
Works supervision                                 -         826,898.9           826,898.9
Goods                                      153,521 7         67,313.'           22C,835.6
Subtotal Employment Generation             6,774,564.5       3,800,87A.(.       10,575,438-5
D. Capacity Building
1. Operating Cost
PIU                                      :39,174.7        108,8993.           148.074 2
MTPE                                            -          99,907.8            90,907.8
HIV                                             -          25,332.9            25,332.9
Municipality of Brazzaville                     -          54,949.-            54,949.3
Subtotal Operating Cost                    :39,174.7        289,089.4           32e,264.1
2. PIU Consultants                         332,565.9        603,193.2           986,759.1
3. Training and Consultant Services
Primary Infrastructure                    48,968.4         59r944. 7m i
Employment Generation                    1 40,784.3        97,410.1           238,1 94.3
Railway                                                    22_4__  -2,479.3    22,479.3
Subtotal Training and Consultant
Services                                   139,752.7        179.834.0           369,586.7
4. Goods and Equipment
PIU                                       50,250.0         99,828.3           150,078.9
Ministry of Public Works & Equipment            -          32,724.0           .32,724.0
Munic pality of Brazzaville                     -          67,064.0            6, C064.0
Subtotal Goods and Equipment                50,250.0        199,616.3           249,866.9
Subtotal Capacity Building                   661,743.3       1,271,733.5         1,933,476.9
E. HIVIAIDS
Goods                                    1,056.231.8                           1,056,231.8
Services                                    12,443.3        2,78,467.7          290,911.0
Civil Works                                 88,660.5          38,281.3          126,942.2
Subtotal HIV/AIDS                          1,157,335.6        316,749.4          1,474,085.0
F. Project F'reparation Advance            1.030,000.0  _            _ -         1,030,000 0
Total                                       31,145,979.2       8,923,562.7       40,069,541.9
4].



MAP
42



L C N  L ,H A           CENTRAL AFRICAN REP
CONGO                                                 f''-'-''-'_j-
'tC  C.LO'S .i:--  j  _ t 
PRIMARY PAVED ROADS             1    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS        -    -             CONGO
PRIMARY GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS       OTHER AIRPORTS                  -                  S
SECONDARY ROADS                 J    PORTS                                                     DEM. REP OF)
TRACKS                               RIVERS                                          "           CONGO
RAILROADS                    - .   - -  MARSH
13   REGION CAPITALS                      REGION BOUNDARIES
0    OTHER SELECTED TOWNS         -       INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES  .        .   ,
ANGOLA
12'                           IA'             \                           - -   \18
l  --)   \  --  CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
t                                       -  X  >  _ = - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   c i-- 4t ~t  a
C  A  M;E    R 0   0   N              -       -                      2                                 ,
4O                                                                                         L I o- 2 -.IZ   Socs 
(D i  ,-.,_  . .  S A N G W A    Eppn             B
O                                                 d  rr . V l F h-~~~~~f~eooo \        /           2',t 
)         f   L,oueso       (
. d  1   1  <   '' ''''   '} \   - k-        },
G  A  B ON N'-e'' -                                  ,                                            GMOOCdOM
R      tO    D1-'C,EJT
REGION    0    LA  CU0ENt        S
L ADT EE - - rf  > n-o-.    
..                              ,.r
-4-~~~~~~~~4
Fo Frocl UL S                                       , DE MO C RATI C
.,/-.~~~S /TMud                  RE GT.ON
-2'  -' .j-.tN                 Jo                                 D # \  'tZ  '  ES  --'  ,      REPUBLIC     OF       2
1    1" '.jX              J    --      PL ATE Al'' 4                             1
s-S 2    y  -    ,/\      >                  QnneSXI                          CONGO
a J _ ~~~~Bo_ bo                s' ,     - o ie,.,t bolo.  Mpooy-)
_ v<~~,one      Nygn   9 i                           -i l t_,.  h < e Esouai >_
---~~~ -- NIARI%          L;   _}fEKQL'  111._I '1            hgelnelj_-----=?-".... 
_,   j  \Eo-,.,eoeo                 /         '''              'Igoo                ,''"V  "   '_
< Bho;' J-'{'\ f_ t! -/ 
_                 1  : L t ., -_ - ), PRh RD  t*
} }si } t1 l f ~~~ lf * ~~ ,\ | HtL I~'             PkBoe                                                    4dA--t . ig 
I   P   >  s   '   'i ...  ''>  5onghow,-'-*9' ~~~~~ -,  #  }& L *ul   '  ]   O~~   .52  1  150  200  25C
'    ,,,                 'Senhe \<*.'!1d                                            KlLOMETEh5
.~~~~~r          K.               ') Boo                      Tn,ono Vo2TWDSCponIFVOA1O bvthoaps'g betecl The W&42e: on
|      | . \ JH k| | 1                         .0':: booedono,oo;eSnodenomm':i,na end oevoo'Vrn,.,nrFe,eo"sbonnV
i T 1: fal r I ._                                          /s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o:40:dgnPe n ::c:m a nYhy sn heV- s' The Wield BoR : k GoCtDn
v:E~~~~~~~~T                            C                                e. 1~. y ( J%>nc yplonceeof nh bo:edor,eo 
|         >     1 4               ,~~~~Ii/    I0                           18-F>  



