Report No. PID10535
Project Name                     Congo, Republic of-Emergency Reconstruction,...
Rehabilitation and Living Conditions
Improvement Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Urban Development
Project ID                       CGPE74006
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF CONGO
Implementing Agency(ies)         MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS
Address: B.P. 13 310, Brazzaville,
Republic of Congo
Contact Person: Maurice Bouesso, Director
of Cooperation
Tel:   242 66 38 85
Fax:     242 81 59 07
Email: bouessomaurice@hotmail.com
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                July 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 8, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 9, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Context: The Republic of Congo is emerging from a forgotten war with three
rounds of violent conflicts between 1993 and 1999. At the height of the crisis
in late 1999, approximately one-third of the Congolese population was
displaced. Poverty, in both absolute and relative terms, is widespread. In
1994, unemployment was estimated to be close to 50 percent and remains at this
level. In 1993, i.e. before the first civil war, an estimated 30 percent of
the population of Brazzaville, which is generally better off than the rural
population, lived on less than US$1 a day. After three civil wars, the
situation has deteriorated substantially in both urban and rural areas. After
the recent conflict, approximately 70 percent of the population are estimated
to be living below the poverty line. Per capita GNP in 1999 was estimated at
US$670, disguising a skewed income distribution. For the majority of the
Congolese population, the combined effects of civil war and lack of
maintenance of existing investments have been disastrous.
The preliminary estimate of damages inflicted by the last two civil wars is
US$2.6 billion, well exceeding the size of the 1999 GDP. Non-oil GDP, a better
indicator of assessing the impact of the war on domestic productive capacity
(since oil is produced essentially offshore), declined by 19 percent between
1996 and 1999. By the time of the outbreak of the 1997 civil war, Congo's
economy had already been weakened by years of poor economic management and
governance as well as the 1993-1994 bloody conflict and social unrest. Most of
the basic infrastructure of the country has been destroyed or is in a state of
collapse due to lack of maintenance. It is estimated that 50 percent of
agricultural tools were destroyed and 75 percent of livestock lost. Many
archives were destroyed or looted. The distribution network, already weak



before the war, collapsed with most feeder roads impassable. Basic public
services, including telecommunications, water and electricity services, road
and rail transportation were severely disrupted. The railway line between
Pointe Noire and Brazzaville, the economic umbilical cord of the country, was
destroyed at several points. The war has taken its toll on schools and health
care facilities.
Youth unemployment has been a major problem because of the Marxist state
legacy which failed to prepare students for the labor market. The single
party rule has created limited space for private sector development and has
engendered a labor market dominated by the public sector. Continuous
unemployment has exacerbated their frustration and exclusion from the
economic system. This situation has attracted and encouraged them to join
different militia groups. These militias were a constant threat to personal
security in Brazzaville and in the southern regions of the country. The heavy
presence of youths in militia groups has fueled recent bloody conflicts where
they have unleashed their frustration on a defenseless population.
Sector Issues: The rehabilitation needs of the country, including basic
infrastructure (railway, roads, drainage, electricity, water, and
telecommunications) are immense. Individual needs include the reconstruction
of houses and the provision of means of production lost during the war,
including tools, seeds, and livestock. Private businesses have also been
severely affected by the upheavals caused by the unstable security situation
in the country. The banking sector was strongly affected and commercial banks
came out of the events insolvent and illiquid. Most deposits were de facto
frozen and the banks had no resources to contribute to the rebuilding of
economic activity. For communities, the needs include the rehabilitation of
every form of economic and social infrastructure as well as resources for the
proper functioning of this infrastructure. To date, the Government has
rehabilitated part of the railway line and donors, and UN agencies and NGOs
have initiated limited rehabilitation activities.
Urbanization: Congo is one of the most urbanized countries in the region with
an estimated urbanization rate of 60 percent. Brazzaville, the capital city
has a population of about one million people, representing 35 percent of the
Congolese population. This city has experienced a high annual population
growth rate of about 5.5 percent between 1974 and 1985, and about 3.1 percent
between 1985 and 1996.
Sanitation: In 1996, a survey done in Brazzaville by the Ministry of Health
found that 15 percent of households had septic tanks, 28 percent had water
closets, 42 percent had traditional latrines, and 15 percent did not have
toilet facilities and used neighbors' or nearby clearings as toilets.
Brazzaville has only three waste collection trucks, even though the need is
three to four times greater; therefore, available waste collection trucks
cannot meet the demands of the city. This has resulted in poor solid waste
collection with large quantities of solid waste being dumped into ditches,
thus blocking streams and drains. This situation is compounded by
inappropriate excreta and sludge removal arrangements and the discharge of
most of the wastewater in the drainage system. Disposal of sewage and
wastewater leads to pools of polluted water which conveys hydro fecal related
diseases, and provides breeding grounds for mosquitoes, especially in dense
neighborhoods, such as Poto Poto, Ouenze, Moungali and Talangai.
- 2 -



Drainage: The primary drainage system is made up principally of gutters,
drains and streams which join the Congo river which flows from East to West.
This drainage system was built during the colonial period and has degraded
severely. This system, according to the technical services of the
municipalities, represents about 410 kms of secondary drains and 10 km of
primary network, and is unevenly distributed in the neighborhoods of
Brazzaville. Older sections of the city barely have basic drainage
infrastructure. The little that exists is mainly concentrated in primary
roads, and most of the secondary roads networks are not drained. The primary
drainage system and streams are hampered by a high level of silt, rapidly
growing aquatic weeds, lack of maintenance, and meanders through low lying
areas, which result in frequent flooding during heavy rainfalls.
Brazzaville is crossed by many perennial streams such as Djiri, Kelekele,
Mikalu, Tsieme, Ouenze, M'Foa, M'Filou and Djoue, into the Congo river. In
some of the districts, mostly in the southern part of the city, severe soil
erosions, has destroyed many houses in the recent past. Erosions are still a
threat to other buildings, roads and potable water pipes are the consequences
of lack of drainage facilities, low cohesive soils in areas with high slopes.
Meanwhile, due to limited hydraulic capacity and the increasing soil
impermeabilization, flooding in the busiest sections of the city are more and
more frequent. Financing of drainage facilities in a rapidly growing city like
Brazzaville has become more and more costly and difficult to achieve.
Roads: The existing road network is in a poor state. Only 7 percent of the
national road network of about 17, 290 km is paved. National and secondary
roads are in disrepair as a result of years of insufficient maintenance
aggravated by years of war. Rural roads are in poor state throughout the
nation. It is not rare to spend over 7 hours on an 80 km rural road because
of its poor state. Many agricultural zones are inaccessible and their
inhabitants remain isolated, thus making it impossible for them to market
their produce and get necessary technical assistance to augment their
agricultural production, neither do they have access to health care and other
consumer needs.
2. Government Strategy
The Government's response to the crisis has been the production of Post-
conflict rehabilitation program. The Government has prepared a three-year
Interim Post-Conflict Program ("Programme Interimaire Post-Conflit") for the
period 2000-02, which aims at helping the Congo move from a humanitarian
crisis to sustainable economic and social development, and from a state-
dominated to a market-based economy. The proposed program, for which the
Government seeks donor support, has two major elements: emergency and growth.
Emergency: The Government seeks to further improve access to the country's
interior and provide basic social services. It aims at assuring the free
circulation of persons and goods through improved security. Rehabilitation of
dilapidated infrastructure is a key objective, as is the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-militias in an impartial, equitable and balanced manner.
In order to improve food security, the re-launching of agricultural and
livestock activities, including agro-Industry, is another priority.
Growth: The re-launching of the productive sector is an essential component
toward poverty reduction and economic and sustainable development. Support to
- 3 -



the private sector and diversification of the economy are central elements,
and fighting unemployment another. The program includes efforts at increasing
competitiveness through, among others, progressive elimination of non-tariff
barriers and modernization of the labor law. The Government further intends to
deepen sub-regional integration, for instance through improvements in
transport infrastructure to stimulate the exchange of goods and services.
Lastly, the reinforcement of administrative and institutional capacities of
the state as well as the strengthening of the rule of law are considered
important elements to overcoming dysfunctional economic and financial
management processes.
3. Objectives
The objectives of the Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living
Conditions Improvement Project are to:
re-establish basic economic activities and social services by rehabilitating
primary, secondary and social infrastructure;
promote employment creation through labor execution of public works; and
support institutional strengthening and capacity building to maintain
primary, secondary, economic and social infrastructure.
These objectives will begin the process of long-term reconstruction and
economic recovery. Particular attention is being paid to long-term
sustainability so that actions taken during the emergency do not have long-
term adverse consequences on institutions and programs. In addition, elements
of the Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living Conditions
Improvement Project will complement ongoing efforts to respond to immediate
humanitarian needs.
4. Rationale for the Bank's Involvement
The rationale for the Bank's involvement stems from potential benefits of
support to Congo in the form of the proposed Emergency Reconstruction,
Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project, which largely
outweigh the high level of risk. The Credit would prioritize areas (e.g.
infrastructure, such as roads, and social infrastructure), which will
eventually jump-start the economy and create the conditions for long-term
development, while at the same time tackling immediate economic and social
needs of the inhabitants who are most vulnerable.
The risks are considerable in the Congo, but the cost of no support from the
international community would exacerbate the violence, which has been clearly
under control since the end of 1999. A lack of support from the international
community would also create a lost generation of uneducated youngsters who
could be a danger to society in years to come, as the social systems further
fall in disarray. Uncontrolled violence and continued instability in the
Republic of Congo would also have severe implications for peace in the
delicate Great Lakes region and the entire Central Africa.
5. Description
The Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement
Project is designed to finance a set of complementary actions in support of
the public and private sectors that will both be responsible for restarting
the economy. One set of actions revolves around rebuilding infrastructure:
roads and bridges (which are also important for the humanitarian program),
drainage, solid waste and excreta management, schools and health centers, to
prevent a further decline in social indicators. Specifically, the Emergency
- 4 -



Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project would
support the following activities:
Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation: This will finance (a)
reconstruction of roads and bridges in the primary network damaged during the
conflict; (b) rehabilitation of primary roads in Brazzaville; (c)
rehabilitation of roads from rural agricultural producing areas to urban
centers; (d) rehabilitation and construction of drainage in the areas in
Brazzaville; and (e) construction of two solid waste depots and solid waste
collection in Brazzaville.
Railway Rehabilitation: This component will finance rehabilitation of the
railway line between Pointe Noire and Brazzaville, which was destroyed at
several points during the conflict. This rehabilitation work will include
updating the railway communication system, and other work needed to make this
railway more appealing for privatization.
Employment Generation: This will finance:
Social Infrastructure : Rehabilitation of primary schools in Brazzaville; (b)
construction of gutters for draining rain water in Brazzaville; (c)
elimination of waste disposal sites and construction of decentralized transfer
stations in all neighborhoods in Brazzaville;
Infrastructure to Protect the Environment: Protecting eroded sites in
Makelekele.
Transport Infrastructure: rehabilitation of agricultural roads in the regions
of Kouilou, Niari, Bounza, Lekoumou, Pool, Central and Eastern parts.
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: This will include:
Support to the Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure, such as (a)
computerization of the unit in charge of managing this project; (b) update
road database; (c) elaboration of a technical manual of procedures for the
ministry; and (d) training.
Support to the municipality of Brazzaville, such as (a) updating the fiscal
database; and (b) organizational and financial audit of Brazzaville and
capacity building.
HIV Prevention, Care and Support: This component will support local NGO's
working on HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support. The work programs to be
funded by this component will be agreed to with the UNAIDS focal person in
Congo and will closely follow the national strategy to fight HIV/AIDS.
Sensitization programs on work sites and condom distribution will also be
funded.
6. Financing
IDA financing will be around US$40 million and government contribution is
expected to be US$4 million and the total project cost is around US$71.0
million.
7. Implementation
In an attempt to build institutional capacity and speed up implementation,
project activities would essentially be concentrated in Brazzaville, the most
populated area to have been devastated by the war. This project will be
implemented through the Ministry of Equipments and Public Works. A project
preparation unit has already been set up, staffed with a Coordinator, a
financial and administrative specialist, a technical specialist and a
communication/participation specialist.
An inter-ministerial technical committee, headed by a high-level coordinating
- 5-



staff, and comprising senior level staff from various line ministries
(including Ministries of Finance and Budget, Transport, Youth, Education,
Health, etc.) will act as a steering committee and will be responsible for
monitoring the project, and coordinating the activities of Government agencies
involved in the implementation of the project. The inter-ministerial
technical committee will also include NGOs and civil society representatives.
The technical committee will regularly inform the Bank on implementation
progress.
8. Sustainability
This project will begin the process of long-term reconstruction and economic
recovery. The re-launching of the productive sector is an essential component
toward poverty reduction, economic and sustainable development. Therefore,
particular attention is being paid to long-term sustainability so that actions
taken during the project do not have long-term adverse consequences on
institutions and programs by following sectoral strategies very closely. In
addition, greater private sector participation will be sought in operating
sanitary and drainage facilities. Experience in other countries have shown
that programs under the full control of communities are more likely to be
sustainable. Therefore, this project will aim at getting communities involved
in building, operating and maintaining community assets (such as social
infrastructure- health centers, schools, etc.).
This project will also reinforce municipal capacity in Brazzaville through
capacity building and equipment financing. This will help to increase
financial resources at the municipal level.
9. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Previous and current Bank operations on emergency reconstruction in post-
conflict countries have provided us with valuable lessons, which have been
included in the design of this project. The main lessons learned from this
experience include:
Commitment and ownership of the borrower is essential for a successful
implementation of emergency projects.
The borrower needs early assistance and training in reviewing its procedures
to be able to handle emergency procedures, particularly on procurement.
The Bank should be flexible and ready to review its procedures for procurement
and disbursement to meet the needs for expedited implementation under such
emergency operations.
Programs under the full control of communities are more likely to be
sustainable.
10. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI). No, this project is not a poverty
targeted intervention.
11. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
This project is rated as B. There are no major environmental issues to be
considered. The project will improve the overall environmental condition of
the city. Specific construction and rehabilitation of ditches and drains will
limit flooding and drain stagnant water. Feasibility studies will assess
environmental impacts and address them through an environmental management
plan. Detailed design studies and construction works will take into account
the recommendations of the environmental management plan.
- 6 -



Issues :   A potential issue is lack of social cohesiveness in neighborhoods
and the sense of distrust which can emerge as a result of years of civil war
and demonstrations such as those witnessed between June and October 1997.
12. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eustache Ouayoro
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-8458
Fax: 202-473-8249
13. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



