Report No. 23526
Report No: I074006 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/17/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CONGO, REPUBLIC OF      Project ID: P074006
Project: EMERGENCY REHABILITATION, RECONSTRUCTION         Task Team Leader:
Eustache Ouayoro
Appraisal Date: October 11, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 16, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 62.00
Managing Unit: AFTU2     Sector: UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and
Living Conditions Improvement Project is to contribute to re-establishment
of basic economic activities and social services by rehabilitating
primary, secondary and urban roads, drainage and school facilities, using
labor-intensive methods to help create jobs.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project is being processed as an emergency operation under
OP8.50. It will finance rehabilitation of primary inter-urban and feeder
roads; urban roads, drainage facilities and schools in Brazzaville;
railway rehabilitation from Pointe-Noire to Brazzaville to increase
security conditions; and capacity building.
Components:
Component 1 - Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation: This
component will finance:
(i) Reconstruction of 650 km of roads and bridges in the primary
inter-urban road network damaged during the conflict (mostly in the
southern part of the country);
(ii) Rehabilitation of 30 km of badly damaged primary roads in the city of
Brazzaville; and
(iii) Rehabilitation and construction of the 9 km of drainage facilities,
which are in very poor condition in Brazzaville.
Component 2 - Railway Rehabilitation: Emergency railway rehabilitation,
limited in scope, is aimed at improving (in the short-term) the transport
capacity of this critical railway line, as well as the safety of train
movements. The main activities to be financed under the emergency railway
rehabilitation component are the following:
(i) Reinforcing the radio-telecommunication network between stations and
trains;
(ii) Strengthening locomotive power capacity through spare parts
acquisition (for rehabilitation of existing but presently not running
locomotives);
(iii) Acquiring railway materials (rails, sleepers, fastenings, etc.) for
emergency track repairs (after derailments), and spare parts for track
maintenance equipment (lorries, tamping machine);
(iv) Improving security conditions in the Mayombe tunnel (lighting,



ventilation, track repair.); and
(v) Acquiring essential spare parts for freight wagons and passenger
coaches.
Component 3 - Employment Generation: This component will help create
temporary employment and, in the process, develop skills to help provide
income to unemployed youths and demobilized combatants, thereby helping to
stabilize the peace process. This component will finance the following
activities:
- Social and Environmental Infrastructure: (a) Rehabilitate 12 primary
schools in Brazzaville and provide needed equipment; (b) construct 7 km of
tertiary drainage facilities in Brazzaville; and (c) eliminate waste
disposal sites in Brazzaville;
- Infrastructure to prevent further damage: Protect 20,000 m2 of eroded
sites in the Makelekele district in Brazzaville to prevent further
collapse of roads, houses, water lines and, in general, public and
economic activity disruptions;
- Transport Infrastructure: (a) Rehabilitate 500 km of rural roads from
rural agricultural producing areas to secondary urban centers in the
Kouilou, Niari, Bounza, Lekoumou, Pool, Central and Eastern Cuvette
regions; and (b) construct 12 km of tertiary paved roads in Brazzaville.
Component 4 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: This
component aims at giving limited institutional support to certain
ministries and municipalities by providing technical assistance and
training. It will finance restoration and upgrading of destroyed
equipment and databases to ensure that rehabilitated infrastructure and
services are being properly managed and maintained. Consistent with that
approach, the project will finance the following activities:
In the Ministry of Public Works and Equipment
(a) Computerize the Project Implementation Unit and units in charge of
planning and maintaining primary and rural roads;
(b) Update road database; and
(c) Provide training;
In the municipality of Brazzaville
(a) Restore and update the fiscal database and birth registries;
(b) Computerize the technical and financial units; and
(c) Build capacity
Component 5 - HIV Sensitization: This component will support the fight
against the spread of HIV/AIDS by complementing existing programs and
assist local NGOs working on HIV/AIDS sensitization strengthen ability of
the Municipality of Brazzaville and the Mayor to focus on HIV/AIDS
sensitization and support to orphans. Work programs to be funded by this
component will be agreed upon with the UNAIDS focal person in the Republic
of Congo and will closely follow the national strategy for HIV/AIDS
prevention. Sensitization programs on work sites and condom distribution
will also be funded.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
- 2 -



natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project activities would essentially be concentrated in Brazzaville, the
capital city and the most populated area. However, some roads connecting
agriculture producing areas to urban centers will be rehabilitated in the
Kouilou, Niari, Bounza, Lekoumou, Pool, Central and Eastern Cuvette
regions. The railway rehabilitation component will involve activities on
the existing rail line connecting Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project is being processed as an emergency
operation under OP8.50 and is classified as B. Most of the works will
involve rehabilitating existing roads and drainage facilities. We do not
expect any land acquisition. However, where land acquisition cannot be
avoided, Government will be required to implement appropriate compensation
and resettlement measures. The railway component will not require land
acquisition, as most of the activities will consist of replacing
radio-telecommunication equipment, sleepers and fasteners, and acquiring
spare parts for track maintenance equipment. Existing transportation
capacity will be more secured and no additional railway capacity is
foreseen. Increased logging (because of the railway) will therefore not
materialize as a result of this component. In addition, the new forestry
law and strengthening of Government's capacity to monitor logging, which
will be provided through other projects, will reduce that risk. The
project will improve Brazzaville's overall environmental condition, and
construction and rehabilitation of ditches and drains will limit flooding
and drain stagnant water. An environmental impact study for the entire
project will be prepared six months after credit effectiveness.    In
addition, detailed technical studies will be conducted to assess specific
environmental impacts and recommend ways to address them through an
environmental management plan.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is not expected to have any safeguard issues as no new
construction is envisaged. Reconstruction and rehabilitation of social
-3 -



and basic infrastructure will mainly be on existing facilities. Works on
the railway rehabilitation will be done on an existing line, which is
currently operational, and will mainly involve upgrading the communication
system. However, any potential impacts will be assessed during
preparation of the impact study six months after credit effectiveness.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
To be completed after credit effectiveness.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
To be completed after credit effectiveness.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
To be completed after credit effectiveness.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
4.01. EIA will be prepared.
4.12. A resettlement framework will be prepared as part of the EIA and
will be applied if triggered.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
To be completed after credit effectiveness.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/31/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/31/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 12/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/31/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
- 4 -



Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Eustache Ouayoro         1/9/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         serigne omar fye         1/9/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         obeng Letitia A.         1/9/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 25, 2002\I074006.txt
January 17, 2002 4:19 PM
-5-



