                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR0000364




                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-36380)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.2 MILLION
                          (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                     FOR AN

                EMERGENCY INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
                    LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                  July 25, 2007




Water and Urban 2
Central Africa 2
Africa Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            Exchange Rate Effective January 17, 2007

                                       Currency Unit = FCFA
                                     FCFA 1.00 = US$ 0.00197
                                     US$ 1.00 = FCFA 506.45

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                           July 1 ­ June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     Agence française de développement ­ French Development Agency
AfDB    African Development Bank
CFCO    Chemin de fer Congo-Océan ­ Congo-Ocean Railway
EU      European Union
FCFA    Franc de la Coopération financière en Afrique centrale ­ Franc of the Central African Financial
        Cooperation
GNP     Gross National Product
HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR     Implementation and Completion Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
ILO     International Labor Organization
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPCP    Interim Post-Conflict Program
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MEPW    Ministry of Equipment and Public Works
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPFA    National Program to Fight AIDS
OP      Operational Policy
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR     Project Status Report
PTA     Parent Teacher Association
PURICV  Projet d'urgence de réhabilitation des infrastructures et du cadre de vie
        ­ Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project
ROC     Republic of Congo
SC      Steering Committee
TSS     Transitional Support Strategy


                            Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                         Country Director: Elena Kastlerova (Acting)
                          Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
                     Project Team Leader: Mahine Diop
                        ICR Team Leader: Mahine Diop

                                          REPUBLIC OF CONGO



                        Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
                             Living Conditions Improvement Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...........................................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.........................................................................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................15
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................................17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................................19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..............................................................................................20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..........................26
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ......................................30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................44
Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex): Photo Documentation .........................................................45
MAPS

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Emergency
                                                                      Infrastructure
Country:               Congo                   Project Name:          Rehabilitation and
                                                                      Living Conditions
                                                                      Improvement Project
Project ID:            P074006                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-36380
ICR Date:              07/25/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                      CONGO
Original Total
                       XDR 32.2M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 30.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Project Implementing Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/11/2001    Effectiveness:        12/09/2002          12/09/2002
Appraisal:             10/17/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/02/2002    Mid-term Review:      05/30/2005          05/24/2005
                                     Closing:              01/31/2007          01/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately              Implementing
                       Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank           Moderately              Overall Borrower
Performance:           Unsatisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                 5                6
Health                                                               5                3
Other social services                                              27                26
Railways                                                           33                29
Roads and highways                                                 30                36


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                              Primary          Primary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction              Primary          Primary
HIV/AIDS                                                         Secondary        Secondary
Improving labor markets                                          Secondary        Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Elena Kastlerova                    Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Eustache Ouayoro                    Letitia A. Obeng
Project Team Leader:       Mahine Diop                         Eustache Ouayoro
ICR Team Leader:           Mahine Diop
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Vang Eghoff




                                                 ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO of the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions
Improvement Project was to assist the Borrower to re-establish basic economic activities
and social services through the rehabilitation of the railway system, primary, secondary
and urban roads, drainage systems, and school facilities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO and indictors were not formally revised. However, an additional financing and
project restructuring was prepared and ready to address funding gaps that arose during
implementation but it could not be implemented, as the financing was ultimately not
granted.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                                documents)        Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   At end of 2003, 50 percent increase in tonnage of merchandise transported by the
                railway line from Pointe-Noire to Brazzaville, compared to 2001.
Value
quantitative or 548,000                      50%              N/A            13%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2003        12/31/2003     12/31/2006
Comments        5% achieved by the end of 2003, 13% achieved by the end of 2006. The indicator
(incl. %        was to be achieved in a short time to monitor support to a speedy economic
achievement)    revival, but the component suffered from weak capacity of the railway company.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)    Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of kilometers of urban roads rehabilitated.
Value
(quantitative   0                           15                N/A            0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/17/2001                    01/31/2007        01/31/2007     01/31/2007
Comments        0 percent achievement. The program was reduced after the mid-term review due
(incl. %        to cost increases. Part of the program was to be implemented using additional
achievement)    financing, which did not materialize.
Indicator 2 :   Number of kilometers of inter-urban and rural roads rehabilitated.
Value                                       470 (180 km inter-               277.5 km (180 km
(quantitative   0                           urban; 290 km     N/A            inter-urban; 97.5
or Qualitative)                             rural)                           km rural)


                                                 iii

Date achieved 10/17/2001                  01/31/2007          01/31/2007      01/31/2007
Comments       59% total. Inter-urban: 100 percent; Rural: 34 percent. The program was reduced
(incl. %       due to continued security concerns and cost increases. Component restructuring
achievement)   was to be part of an additional financing, which did not materialize.

Indicator 3 :  Number of kilometers of urban drainage rehabilitated.

Value
(quantitative  0                          7                   N/A            4.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/17/2001                  01/31/2007          01/31/2007      01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       60% achievement. Part of the program (2.5 kilometers) was dropped after the

achievement)   mid-term review due to cost increases. The remaining program was completed.

Indicator 4 :  Number of person-days of employment generated.
Value
(quantitative  0                          750,000 person-     N/A            400,000
or Qualitative)                           days

Date achieved 10/17/2001                  01/31/2007          01/31/2007      01/31/2007

Comments       54% achievement. Lack of achievement of the target is mainly due to necessary

(incl. %       design changes to rural roads, cost increase, and lack of additional financing.

achievement)   Revision of the indicator was to be part of an additional financing, which did not
               materialize.

Indicator 5 :  Amount of civil works contracts implemented with local contractors as main
               contractors.
Value
(quantitative  0                           US$6 million       N/A            US$25.9 million

or Qualitative)                           equivalent                         equivalent

Date achieved 10/17/2001                  01/31/2007          01/31/2007      01/31/2007

Comments       367% achievement. Many local contractors won contracts because major

(incl. %       international contractors were still concerned with the security situation in the

achievement)   country and considered the Republic of Congo to be a high risk environment for
               doing business.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     11/21/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/12/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     03/10/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.33
  4     04/21/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.33
  5     07/28/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.13
  6     10/05/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.59
  7     04/07/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      13.56
  8     10/25/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      23.33
  9     04/28/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      32.23



                                               iv

  10  11/21/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    38.52
  11  05/17/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    41.98
  12  11/17/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    44.98



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project appraisal in 2001, the Republic of Congo (ROC) was emerging from three
rounds of violent conflicts between 1993 and 1999. The security situation in parts of the country
remained precarious and visiting many parts of the country entailed life threatening risks. At the
height of the crisis in late 1999, approximately 800,000 people, almost one third of the population,
were displaced.

Life expectancy was reduced from 53 years in 1993 to 48.6 years in 1999 due to the combination of
the spread of HIV/AIDS (prevalence estimated at 7 percent), violent deaths, and deteriorating health
services. Unemployment was estimated at close to 50 percent and approximately 70 percent of the
population was estimated to be living below the poverty line. GNP per capita declined from
US$1,300 in 1982 to US$630 in 2000.

Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire are home to more that half of the country's population and the railway
line between these two cities (Chemin de fer Congo-Océan ­ CFCO) is the only effective means of
goods transport and the economic lifeline of the country. It was severely damaged during the
conflicts and traffic sometimes halted for several days, severely impeding economic activities and
the flow of much needed goods to Brazzaville.

Other physical infrastructure had suffered equally, either as a direct result of the conflicts or due to
lack of maintenance. Many inter-urban and rural roads were almost completely impassable,
practically isolating large parts of the population, strangling the rural sector, and endangering the
social cohesion of the country. In Brazzaville, the drainage system and most asphalted roads were
severely degraded, isolating many neighborhoods and with the southern districts of the city
experiencing severe soil erosion, threatening to collapse buildings, roads, and the water distribution
network.

The reconstruction efforts were critically hampered by the severe disruption of the country's
administrative and technical capacities and institutional assets, caused by loss of administrative
professionals, databases, equipment, and buildings. The technical ministries had no means of
evaluating the level of destruction and planning and managing the reconstruction effort, leaving a
vacuum in the areas of service delivery and infrastructure rehabilitation.

Government Response
The Government prepared an Interim Post-Conflict Program (IPCP) for the period 2000-2002 with
two major elements: emergency and growth, aiming at moving the ROC to some level of sustainable
economic and social development.

Among other measures, the Government financed a partial rehabilitation of the CFCO and service
resumed in July 2000. However, a lot remained to be done to bring infrastructure and social services
back to pre-war levels and growing demands from the population and resumption of economic
activities were far from being satisfied.

International Response
Support from donors was limited and scarcely able to address the basic needs of the country,
concentrating on humanitarian needs and reintegration, while leaving much of the burden of
rehabilitating infrastructure and rebuilding the economy to the Government. The European Union
(EU) was mostly engaged in the institutional framework of the road sector, and the French
Development Agency (Agence française de développement - AFD) cofinanced, with IDA, limited
studies on roads, drainage, and capacity building in Brazzaville, while the French Ministry of
Cooperation was supporting programs in education and health.


                                                1

World Bank Response
The Bank prepared a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for the ROC to guide operations over the
2001-2003 period. The principal objective of the TSS was to support the Government through: (i)
strengthening economic stability and equitable growth; supporting the transition to a market-based
economy; (ii) re-establishing basic economic and social services; (iii) building the capacity of
Government and civil society; (iv) fighting the growing threat of HIV/AIDS; and (v) providing
assistance to war-affected and vulnerable population groups.

The Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project (Projet
d'urgence de réhabilitation des infrastructures et du cadre de vie ­ PURICV) was approved on May
2, 2002 for a total amount of US$40 million and became effective on December 9, 2002. It was an
integral part of the TSS and complemented the other major IDA operations of the TSS, a
demobilization project and an HIV/AIDS project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO of the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement
Project was to assist the Borrower to re-establish basic economic activities and social services
through the rehabilitation of the railway system, primary, secondary and urban roads, drainage
systems, and school facilities.1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and indictors were not formally revised. However, a project restructuring was prepared and
ready to address funding gaps that arose during implementation but it could not be implemented, as
the additional financing was ultimately not granted (see Section 2.5).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project aimed at jump-starting the economy and creating conditions for long-term development,
while at the same time tackling immediate economic and social needs of some of the most vulnerable
groups.

Re-establishing a well functioning railway system between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville was
paramount to reviving economic and industrial activity in Brazzaville and in the country. The general
population of the country would benefit from this through increased access to a reasonable range of
goods and more opportunities for employment due to the re-launching of some economic activities.
Industry would benefit from regular supply of primary commodities at reasonable prices with some
impact on limiting inflation.

Youth and ex-combatants would benefit from short-term employment through the use of labor-
intensive construction methods which would reduce the likelihood of their engagement in further
conflicts. Benefits encompassing the entire ROC (and spread over the region) were expected from
the project due to greater stability and peace in the country.

In Brazzaville, people would get better access roads, drainage, protection from soil erosion, and
better schooling conditions. Residents of isolated rural areas benefiting from road works would
escape quasi-isolation from the rest of the country and get access to markets to sell their produce and
to health services and education.




1The PDO as stated in the Project Memorandum does not specifically include the railway system; it is,
however, included in the PDO as stated in the Credit Agreement.

                                                    2

The population of Brazzaville would benefit from HIV test centers and HIV/AIDS awareness
campaigns. People living near project construction sites (both rural and urban) would also benefit
from HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns, in particular the rural population that would experience an
increased interaction with the rest of society.

1.5 Original Components
The project had five components:2

Component 1 - Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation
(Appraisal: US$12.1 million. Actual: US$12.3 million)

This component would finance the rehabilitation of: (i) 180 kilometers of roads in the primary inter-
urban road network3; and (ii) 15 kilometers of badly damaged primary roads in Brazzaville.

Component 2 - Employment Generation
(Appraisal: US$10.6 million. Actual: US$18.0 million)

This component would help create temporary employment and, in the process, develop skills to help
provide income to unemployed youth and demobilized combatants through: (i) rehabilitating and
constructing social and environmental infrastructure (124 classrooms and 7 kilometers of tertiary
drainage in Brazzaville); (ii) construction of infrastructure to protect 12,000 square meters of eroded
sites in Brazzaville to prevent further collapse of roads, houses, and water lines; and (iii)
rehabilitating transport Infrastructure (290 kilometers of rural roads connecting agricultural areas to
secondary urban centers and construction of 10 kilometers of tertiary roads in Brazzaville).

Component 3 - Railway Rehabilitation
(Appraisal: US$13.0 million. Actual: US$14.5 million)

Emergency railway rehabilitation aimed at improving the transport capacity of the railway line and
the safety of train movements by: (i) reinforcing the radio-telecommunication network between
stations and trains; (ii) strengthening engine power capacity through spare parts acquisition; (iii)
acquiring materials for emergency track repairs and spare parts for maintenance equipment, freight
wagons, and passenger coaches; and (iv) improving security conditions in the Mayombe tunnel.

Component 4 - HIV Awareness
(Appraisal: US$1.5 million. Actual: US$1.5 million)

This component would support the fight against HIV/AIDS via: (i) awareness programs at the
national level and in primary and high schools, in Brazzaville, and in areas neighboring project
construction sites (e.g. roads and railway) as well as condom distribution, treatment of infected
workers and sexual workers for sexually transmitted diseases; and (ii) constructing and equipping
two HIV test centers in Brazzaville.

Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
(Appraisal: US$1.9 million. Actual: US$2.8 million)

This component aimed at giving limited institutional support and developing awareness on how the
population could participate in the maintenance of rehabilitated infrastructure by assistance to: (i) the
MEPW for computerization of road units and computerization and updating of the road database,



2See project maps at the end of this report showing the geographical distribution of project interventions.
3The figure in the DCA and Project Memorandum is 190 kilometers, but the sum of the length of all planned
road sections is 180 kilometers.


                                                     3

development of and training in procedures to contract out maintenance activities to the private sector
and to monitor employment creation in labor intensive public works and project implementation
progress; and (ii) the municipality of Brazzaville for computerization of technical and financial units
and development of procedures to contract out operations and maintenance of drainage and roads to
the local private sector as well as capacity building in maintenance planning, procurement,
monitoring of maintenance activities and performance of private sector contractors. Training of local
consultants and contractors in implementing labor-intensive public works.

1.6 Revised Components

After appraisal and just before negotiations, the Credit amount was reduced from US$57 million to
US$40 million due to lack of IDA resources for the ROC. This resulted in a reduction of the works
program; from 510 to 180 kilometers of inter-urban roads and from 500 to 290 kilometers of rural
roads. As recorded in the minutes of negotiations, the Congolese delegation was informed that
additional resources could be made available at a future date, if the implementation of the project
was satisfactory and if the disbursement rate justified such additional resources.

The PURICV was an emergency project, and the security situation in the country had prevented site
visits and preparation of technical studies in advance of project approval. Following credit
effectiveness and with the gradually improving security situation, it became possible to carry out
technical design studies, showing that road conditions were very different from what was anticipated
during preparation. During the mid-term review it was realized that the road components had to be
reduced because of higher unit costs and cost increases due to:

(i) The needed changes to the design of inter-urban and rural roads to include drainage works,
     culverts and bridges to ensure sustainability of works resulted in a cost increase of 54 percent
     over appraisal estimates.
(ii) Changes to the conditions of the rural roads that experienced heavy degradation as a result of
     rainfall.
(iii)Insufficient information on unit costs due to the destruction of all databases and the many years
     without any contract being awarded in the sector.
(iv) Limited competition in the construction industry combined with a high risk perception of a post-
     conflict country by international contractors and high financial bids.
(v) Depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the FCFA.

The actual average price for inter-urban and rural roads was US$63,000 per kilometer, versus a
forecast of US$28,000 per kilometer. It was further realized that it would not be possible to carry out
rehabilitation of roads in the Pool Region due to the continued precarious security situation in that
Region. Consequently, it was decided after effectiveness to reduce Components 1 and 2, while
keeping a geographical distribution of interventions. These revisions were not formally approved,
but were to be included in a formal restructuring to be carried out in connection with an expected
additional financing (see Section 2.2 below). The following not formally approved revisions were
made:

Component 1: Reduction of the primary roads in Brazzaville from 15 to 7.9 kilometers, retaining the
coherency with tertiary roads and drainage under Component 2.

Component 2: Reduction of drainage works from 7 to 4.5 kilometers and of tertiary roads from 10 to
4.5 kilometers. Reduction of rural roads from 290 to 206 kilometers, as 84 kilometers of rural roads
in the Pool Region were dropped due to the security situation in this region.




                                                 4

1.7 Other significant changes

Restructuring of the project was considered at mid-term. However, Bank management wanted a
restructuring to take place along with an additional financing, which was ultimately not granted, as
described under Section 2.2 below.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The preparation of the project was carried out in a very weak institutional environment, as the
country was just coming out of a major conflict. Costing and technical design of the road program
was difficult because the road databases were destroyed and there was no information on the
condition of the road network, the construction industry was crippled, and unit costs benchmarking
had too be carried out with data collected in West Africa due to lack of procurement activities for
many years in the ROC and in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Taking into account these
challenging conditions and learning from earlier operations, implementation arrangements and
components were kept as simple as possible. Activities related to water supply, electricity, and
telecommunications were not included in the project, although they were part of the IPCP.

Showing quick and visible results on the ground by addressing critical infrastructure deficiencies
with a direct impact on the lives of the population and re-launching economic activities was critical
in the design of the project. It was clear that long term sustainability of the investments could be at
risk but it was felt that these issues could be tackled by involving the entities in charge of the
respective sectors fully in the design of the project. Activities included in the project were prepared
by the implementing agencies (supported by the Bank task team), i.e. roads, drainage, and capacity
building respectively by the Ministry of Equipment and Public Works (MEPW) and the municipality
of Brazzaville; activities associated with the rehabilitation of schools by the Ministry of Education
together with the local leaders and Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs); the railway component was
prepared by the CFCO, and the HIV/AIDS component by the National Program to Fight Aids
(NPFA) under the Ministry of Health.

In order to bypass existing, cumbersome and opaque procurement procedures and to speed up
implementation in order to show quick results on the ground, the Government entrusted overall
project responsibility to a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with competitively hired staff. The PIU
would assure project management and involve the implementing agencies in the execution of
relevant components. Coordination of activities was also an important element of the design of the
project. To that effect, the Government established a project Steering Committee (SC), including
relevant ministries, the municipality of Brazzaville, representatives of private sector construction
associations, and NGOs.

To increase the likelihood of maintenance of project works after project completion, the municipality
of Brazzaville agreed to contract out operation and maintenance (O&M) of urban roads and drainage
facilities to the local private sector and earmark appropriate funds for maintenance purposes. The
project would further finance a road database in the MEPW to serve as a tool in programming
maintenance of roads. The railway component was developed at the same time as the Government
was preparing a privatization of the CFCO. While privatization was not part of the project, the
technical rehabilitation of the company was thought to facilitate the privatization, which would
increase the likelihood of sustainability of project outcomes.

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented in four years and 98.9 percent of the credit amount was disbursed.
Implementation of works suffered from a number of difficulties beyond the control of the project.
Most importantly, increase in unit costs and deterioration of the U.S. dollar against the FCFA


                                                  5

resulted in less resources being available to the project. At the end of the project, the depreciation of
the U.S. dollar amounted to FCFA 6.1 billion, equal to US$12.0 million, compared to appraisal
exchange rates. The price of construction materials increased, e.g. with the cost of cement in
Brazzaville going up by over 80 percent between 2002 and 2004 and periodical diesel shortage
sending the price soaring from the official price of FCFA 295 to FCFA 1,000.

The mid-term review, carried out in May 2005, highlighted the cost increases and funding gap. In
order to assure completion of critical parts of the program, the client requested, on July 11, 2005, an
additional financing for primary roads in Brazzaville and a bridge over the Niari River, which had
proven necessary to improve the flow of traffic on the Madingou-Sibiti road financed by the project.
On August 4, 2005, Bank management officially informed the Government that it would consider the
request favorably, consistent with the outcome of negotiations, and asked the task team to start the
preparation of the additional financing.4

By August 2005, the task team had prepared the draft additional financing memo, including the
needed project restructuring to ensure coherency of project interventions. The processing was
delayed due to IDA funding constraints, and the Board presentation date was pushed to FY07.
However, on September 8, 2006, before presentation to the Board, Bank management informed the
Government of its decision not to grant the additional financing, the reason being that the country
was benefiting from more favorable economic conditions, especially due to increased oil prices. It
was also agreed that further support to the sectors supported through the PURICV would be explored
as part of the preparation of the Interim Strategy Note (ISN, FY08-09).

The announcement of the rejection of the additional financing four months before the closing of the
project left the task team with no time to implement a restructuring of the project.

In general, the PIU performed well during implementation, assuming overall implementation
responsibility for all components. Components 1 and 2 (Primary and Secondary Infrastructure;
Employment Generation) did not experience other problems than the ones related to the lack of
funding to carry out all component activities. Implementation of Component 3 (Railway
Rehabilitation) was affected by the weak capacity of the railway company (the CFCO). The Bank
mission of June 2002 and subsequent missions highlighted the weak capacity of the CFCO. The
company was unable to prepare the technical specifications for the bidding documents, delaying
implementation of the component. Management of spare parts also turned out to have a significant
negative impact on project outcome, as described under Section 3.2 below.

The NPFA implemented awareness-raising activities under Component 4 (HIV Awareness) and the
HIV test centers were constructed as planned. However, condoms procured by the project were
distributed at a very slow rate in the beginning as the awareness raising activities were slow to start
and to pick up due to limited implementation capacity. Only two of four blood screening equipment
procured by the project were put into service in Brazzaville as planned while the other two were
finally installed in Dolisie and Pointe-Noire as they were not needed in Brazzaville after all due to
miscalculation of screening needs. Further, management of the reactants needed for the blood test
was very poor, with many reactants passing the expiration date.




4The letter signed by the acting Country Director states that: "Nous vous informons que votre requête a été
examinée et que nous sommes favorables à l'octroi de l'enveloppe supplémentaire requise." This translates as:
"We inform you that your request has been considered and we look favorably on the granting of the required
additional amount." While this does not constitute a legally binding Credit Agreement, it can easily be
interpreted as a firm promise.

                                                  6

Under Component 5 (Institutional Strengthening) capacity strengthening activities were implemented
as planned, except for the road database. In spite of repeated recommendations by Bank supervision
missions, the General Directorate of Public Works in the MEPW was not given the human resources
necessary for the establishment of the road database, which was intended to have played a key role in
the programming of maintenance of roads.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E framework was simple and directly related to the reconstruction of the country and the
generation of employment. One single indicator was used to capture the main aspect of the PDO: the
increase in level of goods transported by railway as a proxy of economic recovery. In retrospect,
more than one outcome indicator should have been included in the results framework to report on the
multifaceted nature of the project.

The goal of achieving a 50 percent increase in transport of goods by the end of 2003 was considered
to be relatively easily achievable based on CFCO estimates and the understanding that the
rehabilitation of the locomotives, tracks, and other railway facilities would rapidly increase the
effectiveness of the railway company and therefore the transported tonnage. According to CFCO
data, despite the delay in procurement of the spare parts by the CFCO, an 8 percent increase was
achieved at the end of 2004 and a 57 percent increase was noted at the end of 2005, following the
delivery of most of the spare parts procured through the project. However, site visits of the CFCO
workshops by the task team revealed poor management practices of the spare parts and the loss of a
number of spare parts procured, and triggered the task team to request an audit of the CFCO.

The audit was carried out under difficult circumstances due to the poor spare parts bookkeeping, but
revealed that indicator values for transport of goods had not been properly calculated and
communicated by the CFCO. The CFCO recognized this error and it became clear that instead of 57
percent increase in tonnage reported in 2005, the actual increase was 25 percent. This led to the main
indicator erroneously being rated as achieved for some time. The 50 percent target was probably
overly optimistic in retrospect, given a very precarious organizational and financial situation of the
CFCO at appraisal.

It has to be noted that although not formally revised, the task team informally revised the output-
oriented indicators in the ISRs, along the findings of the mid-term review and to reflect the updated
indicators as discussed with the borrower during the mid-term review.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was rated Category B because it did not entail major adverse environmental impacts. In
accordance with emergency lending policies (OP 8.50 - Emergency Recovery Assistance), the
safeguard documentation was to be prepared during implementation, and no later than six months
after credit effectiveness. A safeguards mission was carried out in May 2003, but the Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment was delayed until March 2005 as a result of a poor understanding of
the consultant selection process. At this time, most works had been launched. The Assessment was
followed by an Environmental Evaluation Report in June 2005. For the ongoing works, corrective
measures were implemented during site meetings to take into account the recommendations of the
Evaluation. Other recommendations mostly concerned the works that had to be dropped due to the
funding gap, and so the recommendations lost relevance. Certain recommendations concerning
institutional aspects and training of involved organizational structures were to be implemented with
the cooperation of the Environmental Department of the Ministry of Water and Forests, but this
Ministry prioritized issues of forestry higher and could not provide the necessary technical assistance
to the PIU for the implementation of the recommendations.




                                                 7

The technical audit concluded that no major negative environmental and social impacts were
triggered as a result of project implementation. In fact, implementation of the project has improved
the environmental conditions of the areas where it was carried out. In general, the implemented
activities conformed to the various safeguard politics of the Bank. The activities did not result in
resettlement or loss of important economic activities; they were not implemented in natural habitats
and did not affect indigenous peoples or cultural property.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Steps have been taken to assure the transition to post-completion operation of project achievements.
However, post-completion operation of project outputs is largely compromised by the lack of
maintenance funds and planning capacity. Management of the CFCO continues to remain
problematic (e.g. productivity is one quarter of that of Camrail in Cameroon) and the financial
situation of the company is precarious. A major restructuring of the CFCO is long overdue to avoid a
collapse of the company in the near future. Previous attempts at privatization of the CFCO did not
succeed, and it would be crucial for the government to be more proactive in restructuring the
operations of the CFCO.

Although the Government has shown its commitment to fund road maintenance by allocating an
amount equal to 2 percent of the cost of the PURICV road works in the 2007 budget for the Road
Fund, this Fund still lacks resources to address the O&M needs of the country's road networks. For
example, only 52 percent of the collected taxes targeted for the Road Fund were transferred from the
Treasury to the Fund in 2005. The likelihood of proper O&M of the roads remains limited with the
Road Fund focusing on construction of new roads rather than on maintenance and the absence of a
road database. This situation is of great concern to the Government. The Government's National
Transport Plan is currently addressing these problems and aims to strengthen the role of the Road
Fund, with assistance from the EU, the major donor involved in the road sector.

The implementing agencies participated in the procurement process and field visits and learned from
PIU technical competencies. Overall, the national construction sector is now better equipped to bid
for and execute contracts than before the project and the labor-intensive construction methods have
been widely disseminated and are being adopted. However, at project closure, no arrangements had
been made to assure the systematic transfer of competences acquired by the PIU to other public
entities (e.g. training sessions, workshops). The lack of exit strategy for transfer of competencies of
the PIU represents a missed opportunity for capacity building.

In terms of follow-up, all technical studies for works that could not be financed under the project
have been transferred to the relevant administrations. A follow-up operation is under preparation
under the current ISN and this project will address some of the key issues facing the sustainability of
some of the achievements of this operation including the capacity of local governments to finance
and manage the delivery of services.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the project accurately reflect the current development priorities of the ROC. The
draft PRSP of January 2007 has three pillars, all supported by the PURICV: (i) consolidation of
peace, security and good governance was promoted via the reintegration of previously isolated areas
and the creation of temporary jobs to prevent ex-combatants from becoming involved in continued
conflicts; (ii) advancement of strong, sustainable and equitable growth was supported by the railway
component and the rural and inter-urban roads, which facilitate economic development in rural areas;
and (iii) advancement of sustainable human development and living conditions was assured through
road rehabilitation in rural areas and social and basic infrastructure rehabilitation in Brazzaville. This


                                                  8

work remains relevant in light of the ISN (to be presented to the Board on July 31, 2007), which will
continue to support improved implementation of poverty alleviation programs, with special emphasis
on health, underserved communities in urban areas, and the rural sector to foster economic
diversification and address poverty issues.

In terms of project design, the focus on key infrastructure and social services remains relevant. A
more precise diagnosis of the institutional environment of the CFCO could have revealed the
difficulties that prevented privatization, and pointed to the need for a more concerted effort at the
organizational level. Given the emergency nature of the project, this was not carried out, but in
hindsight could have benefited the project immensely.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the PDO is primarily evaluated against the target values of the project's
indicators and secondarily by taking into account some of the project's impacts on the lives of the
population benefiting from the project. The evaluation is primarily based on an audit of the CFCO, a
technical audit, and four impact evaluations5 carried out by national consultants at the end of the
project.

The project did not achieve its PDO as measured by the outcome indicator. The transport of goods
on the railway between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville had increased by 5 percent at the end of 2003
against a target of 50 percent and by only 13 percent at the end of the project. The target for contracts
awarded to national contractors was largely surpassed with US$25.9 million of contracts won by
local contractors against a target of US$6 million. Other outputs directly related to the reconstruction
of the country were not achieved as no primary roads were rehabilitated in Brazzaville compared to a
target of 15 kilometers; 277.5 kilometers of inter-urban and rural roads were rehabilitated against a
target of 470 kilometers; and 400,000 person-days of employment were generated out of a target of
750,000. Despite these shortcomings, project impact evaluations have concluded that the project had
positive economic and social impacts on the lives of many people, as noted below.

Rail transport ­ the CFCO
Even though the target of transport of goods was not achieved, the rehabilitation of the railway had
positive impacts on the economy. The IMF has estimated that a decline in the level of railway
disruptions was accountable for a moderation of inflation to 2.5 percent in 2005, down from 3.5
percent in 2004.6

However, even though the service is now generally more regular on the railway and the number of
kilometers traveled by the trains increased by 78 percent between 2000 and 2006, the technical
improvements have been offset by an increase in engine incapacity. Some sections of tracks are so
steep that the wagons have to be transported past these sections in several trips, and hence the
locomotives travel longer, but without increasing the quantity of goods transported. According to the
CFCO, this engine incapacity results from the lack of spare parts to carry out a general overhaul of
the locomotives, as needed. The difficulties experienced by the CFCO in determining the technical
specifications of what was required to fully address the needs of the locomotives and the poor
management of procured spare parts are to be blamed for this situation, as it was not possible to carry




5Evaluations of: (i) the school and HIV/AIDS component in Brazzaville; (ii) the roads, drainage and erosion
protection works in Brazzaville; (iii) the roads rehabilitated in the Bouenza and Lekoumou Regions; and (iv)
the roads rehabilitated in the Plateaux Region.
6IMF Country Report No. 06/262. July, 2006.

                                                     9

out the needed overhaul of the locomotives.7 The figure of 13 percent increase in goods transported
by the end of 2006 is actually down from 25 percent in 2005, as revealed by the audit of the CFCO,
showing how the CFCO is struggling to maintain service levels.

Despite not achieving the 50 percent target, it is highly likely that the project has contributed to the
continued functioning of the CFCO. There is a general agreement that the CFCO would have almost
stopped its operations without the support of the project, negatively impacting the economic
activities in the country. The privatization of the CFCO (not part of the project) was eventually
abandoned, as the Government did not commit to the prerequisite reorganization of the CFCO,
despite a concerted dialogue between the Government and the Bank. This privatization would have
introduced more competent management of the CFCO and improved the operation of the railway
company.

Inter-urban and rural roads
The rehabilitation of 277.5 kilometers of inter-urban and rural roads has impacted more than 63,000
persons in 59 villages who have gained easier access to nearby larger cities. A further 150,000
inhabitants of these larger cities now benefit from greater food security and reduced travel times.
After having been closed to motorized transport for up to 30 years in some cases, these roads are
now regularly served by various forms of transportation, facilitating the flow of people and of
agricultural goods, the major source of income of the rural population. As a result, revenues
generated by the marketing of agricultural production has increased by more than US$1.8 million per
year since before the rehabilitation of the roads, equivalent to an increase in annual revenue of over
US$28 per inhabitant of the 59 villages.

According to project impact evaluations, privately managed commercial transportation made
possible by the rehabilitation of the roads has generated additional revenue to the transportation
operators, estimated to be over US$1 million per year. Average travel time to the nearest city for
some of the people living along the rehabilitated roads has been reduced by over 80 percent (from
17.9 hours to 2.3 hours). Transportation costs are an important factor in determining the usage of
roads, but no conclusion can be drawn from the figures available, since costs have gone up in some
areas while they have decreased in others. Over time, as supply and demand stabilize, it is expected
that prices will decrease.

The opening of the roads has contributed to the reunification of the country by reducing the seclusion
of the rural population and has triggered the development of economic activities. Women-led credit
associations have been established and money transfer bureaus have opened in the urban centers of
Abala and Mpouya where they did not exist before, thus opening up for a complete restructuring of
the local economy.

Roads and drainage in Brazzaville
The roads and drainage facilities rehabilitated in Brazzaville have resulted in a better flow of traffic
and have facilitated the reintegration of 43,000 inhabitants of previously isolated neighborhoods in
the Moungali District with the rest of the city. Rainwater no longer stagnates in the streets to the
same extent, the number of periodically flooded houses has decreased by 50 percent in the District,
and sewage is no longer emptied directly onto the streets. Cases of malaria reported at the local
health clinic have dropped by 17 percent and typhoid fever has dropped by 38 percent8. Because




7See Annex 2 for details on usage of spare parts. As an example, only 28 percent of spare parts procured for a
specific engine type were used.
8Comparison of a three month period before the implementation of works to a three month period after
completion of works.

                                                  10

roads are now passable, solid waste collection has begun, with a private enterprise ensuring door-to-
door collection for US$2 per household per month.

Living and environmental conditions have improved and land prices have increased fourfold on
average, from US$10-US$15 per square meter before the PURICV to about US$50 after. Small-scale
commercial activities are picking up along the streets in the area, with a quasi-doubling of informal
trading from 70 shops to 134 shops. It has been estimated that the increase in turnover as a result of
the works is over US$1 million per year. However, the incomplete nature of the road and drainage
network, due to the lack of rehabilitation of roads and drainage originally included in the project, has
prevented the full impact of implemented works from materializing.

Employment generation
The project generated 400,000 person-days of work and about US$2 million were paid in salaries to
youth, who also received training. This is equivalent to over 400 full time jobs for the duration of
project implementation. The shortfall of the target of 750,000 person-days can be attributed to: (i) the
fact that the original project works program was not completed due to funding constraints; (ii)
changes to the construction methods for some rural roads; and (iii) the lack of specification of a ratio
of unskilled labor in bidding documents.

There was a disbursement of US$25.9 million to local companies, clearly contributing to the revival
of the economy and an otherwise moribund local constructing industry. This result far exceeds the
target of US$6 million. Many local contractors won contracts as international contractors were still
concerned with the security situation in the country.

School rehabilitation
The rehabilitation and construction of 129 classrooms benefited about 15,000 pupils, corresponding
to about 13 percent of the total number of pupils in Brazzaville. The construction of new latrines has
also helped attendance and better learning opportunities for the children. The number of teachers in
the rehabilitated schools has almost doubled from 113 in 2003 to 200 in 2006. However, most of the
teachers are unpaid, but they seem to have been partially motivated by the improved quality of the
school facilities. The graduation rate (pupils moving up one grade) increased from 61 percent in
2004 to 72 percent in 2006 and this may be attributable to the improved schooling conditions.
Electricity is now available in the classrooms with evening literacy classes taking place, so far
attended by 466 students.

Of the 15,000 pupils in the schools rehabilitated by the PURICV, about 4,250 have transferred from
private schools or other public schools located further away from where they live, allowing average
monthly savings by families of up to US$10 on schooling fees and US$15 on transportation costs.

Protection from erosion
The protection of 14,714 square meters against erosion (compared to a target of 12,000 square
meters) has benefited a population of 25,000 persons living in the affected areas and 52 plots have
been directly safeguarded from collapse.

HIV Awareness
In terms of social services, the project has had highly positive impacts through the awareness-raising
campaigns and the two HIV test centers constructed by the project. The cost of testing in the centers
financed by the project is US$1, compared to a minimum of US$2 in other centers. The centers have
tested 12,823 persons (44 percent women and 56 percent men), with an average HIV sero-prevalence
rate of 12 percent over the entire period. HIV positive persons are referred to local hospitals for anti-
retroviral treatment. According to the doctors, the capacity of the centers is used to about 60 percent.
For the period of January to May 2006, for which the statistics are reliable, the two centers carried


                                                 11

out 71 percent of all HIV tests in Brazzaville. The percentage of persons tested positive has declined
from 16 percent in 2004 to 15 percent in 2005 and 10 percent in 2006, suggesting that the people
from the most exposed groups have benefited from testing when the centers were new.

Twenty NGOs have been trained in carrying out HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns and 42 awareness
campaigns under the project have reached more than 80,000 persons along the rehabilitated roads
and other project sites, in markets, and in schools. 180 "clubs of friends" to fight AIDS have been
created and 210 pairs of trainers have been trained.

Capacity building
The Brazzaville municipal administration received training in programming of infrastructure
maintenance and control of technical quality, procurement, and contract management. IT was widely
introduced and used in the technical services of the municipality.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was prepared under OP 8.50 - Emergency Recovery Assistance and no economic
evaluation was carried out at appraisal.

A full cost-benefit evaluation for inter-urban and rural roads and roads in Brazzaville was not
conducted because of the rural nature of some of these roads and the logistical difficulties in carrying
out traffic counting. For the inter-urban and rural roads there were no alternatives to the chosen
project activities and no other way to assure the reuniting of the country. Benefits accruing only from
incremental agricultural production, transportation revenues generated by the reopening of the roads,
and additional sales from the small shops in the Moungali District have been estimated to be at least
US$3.8 million per year for a total investment of US$19.3 million for these project activities.

For comparison, the Democratic Republic of Congo Emergency Economic and Social Reunification
Support Project, appraised in 2003, has experienced more significant cost increases than the
PURICV. With appraisal figures of US$20,000 per kilometer of road, the final costs have ended up
in the range US$70,000 to US$100,000 for this project, higher than the actual average of US$63,000
for the PURICV roads against the appraisal average of US$28,000 per kilometer.

Rehabilitation of tertiary roads using cobblestones for the first time in Brazzaville is assessed as cost
effective with an average cost of US$24 per square meter, slightly below the average of US$24.7 for
road reconstruction in Africa,9 and probably much less than what could have been obtained by using
traditional construction techniques, given the otherwise high unit costs obtained for road activities in
the project.

The efficiency of the railway rehabilitation is not easy to evaluate due to the lack of a counterfactual
situation for the CFCO without the project. However, efficiency is potentially very high, under the
hypothesis that the railway would have stopped functioning without the PURICV. On the other hand,
efficiency could be evaluated as low, given that the activities did not achieve the desired results,
while a more precise diagnosis of the CFCO needs might have resulted in better returns to
investments. The efficiency of the school rehabilitation, erosion protection works, HIV awareness
component and institutional strengthening activities of the project cannot be evaluated due to the
many unquantifiable benefits from these activities.




9Road Costs Knowledge System (ROCKS). World Bank road software tool.

                                                12

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

Summing up the evaluation above, the major factors that combine to give the project rating are:

Relevance
The project had a highly relevant development objective for the reconstruction of the country after
periods of civil wars. This objective remains relevant today.

Achievement of PDO
(i) The project did not achieve its major relevant objective as measured through the outcome
     indicator of increasing the tonnage of goods transported by rail. In addition, four out of five
     output indicators were not achieved. Although these output indicators do not relate directly to
     impact on people they are highly relevant to measure the reconstruction of the country.
(ii) Although the 50 percent target of increase in tonnages was not achieved, the rehabilitation of
     railway equipment and facilities was a factor in limiting inflation and contributing to the
     revitalization of the economy. Furthermore, social services clearly improved through the
     rehabilitation of schools and HIV/AIDS activities of the project. The project was implemented
     on time with no extension, which is quite remarkable in the ROC and for an emergency
     operation.
(iii)The impact at the institutional level was mixed. Dramatically changing the procurement
     practices by moving away from the generalized use of single sourcing was a major achievement
     as well as introduction of new construction techniques in the rehabilitation of tertiary roads with
     local materials. However, the lack of development of the road database is a drawback.

Efficiency
The overall efficiency of the project is not easy to evaluate due to the multifaceted nature of the
project. Cost-efficiency is evaluated as moderately satisfactory, given the unit cost for road works in
the ROC benchmarked against other countries in the region (e.g. higher unit costs for rural roads in
the Democratic Republic of Congo). Further, there were no alternatives to the chosen activities in
order to promote the reuniting of the country. The efficiency of the railway rehabilitation cannot be
evaluated, while economic benefits generated for the project beneficiaries are high. A detailed
evaluation of financial or economic rate of return has not been carried out due to lack of complete
and reliable data.

Overall rating
The relevance of the project was high. The PDO was not achieved nor were the targets for four out
of five output indicators, although at project closure the project had brought about some
improvements in the social conditions and the economic prospects for a great number of people and
had contributed to the economic revitalization and the reunification of the country. However, there
are no indicators available to measure the degree of achievement of these impacts against. For this
reason, the evaluation of achievement of PDO is primarily based on the achievement of the
indicators set up by the project. The efficiency of the project cannot be evaluated accurately.

By combining the relevance, achievement of PDO, and efficiency the project is rated moderately
unsatisfactory in spite of the many positive project achievements.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
(Nothing to add to the above)




                                                 13

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Lack of transparency of procurement was a major problem in Congo following the years of conflict,
and sole sourcing was the only method used. The introduction of open bidding has resulted in
improved transparency of the procurement process and is slowly being generalized in Congo with
the support of the donor community. Contracts were enforced for the first time in the country and
contractors were penalized US$372,000 due to delays in delivering works on some of the roads.

Local capacity was built on a limited scale by using local consultants for the impact evaluations as
opposed to international consultants. This was an explicit choice and in spite of methodological
difficulties encountered at the beginning of these studies the quality of the data in the final studies is
satisfactory.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Paving of roads by cobblestones was introduced for the first time in Congo and resulted in the
creation of more jobs, especially for youth. The adoption of this technology in the future will be
beneficial for the ROC as it will improve the balance of payments and will allow for the
rehabilitation of more urban roads because of lower unit costs compared to asphalted roads.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Not applicable)
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The risk to development outcome is rated as high due to the general lack of funds for maintenance of
infrastructure in the country in general and for the activities financed by the project in particular.

The situation of the CFCO poses a high risk. While it is unlikely that the Government will let the
CFCO collapse completely, it is difficult to envisage that the CFCO can assure the longer term
sustainability of its operations under the current institutional and organizational arrangement.

Operating and maintaining the rehabilitated inter-urban and rural roads also poses a high risk. It is
likely that funding to maintain the rehabilitated roads will not be available, be limited or not be
provided on time (see Section 2.5) and that road conditions will quickly deteriorate. Dirt roads in the
climatic environment of Congo, characterized by heavy rainfalls, have a short lifespan if they are not
properly built and maintained on a regular basis. As a mitigation measure, the project has financed
barriers that can be lowered to block the roads during rains to prevent premature degradation of the
road surface.

Normal operation of infrastructure facilities in Brazzaville is at risk because the financial means at
the disposal of the municipality of Brazzaville remain limited and depend on transfers from the
Government. In 2006, only US$620,000 was devoted to maintenance according to the Brazzaville
technical services, corresponding to 2.8 percent of the municipal budget, which is quite low. While
the neighborhood organizations have been engaged in ensuring maintenance of the drainage and
erosion works, it appears that this arrangement will not be sustainable in the longer run.

As part of the project preparation dialogue, one of the areas identified for improving efficiency of
maintenance was the contracting out by the municipality of Brazzaville of O&M of urban roads and
drainage facilities to the local private sector. This process has to be completed by earmarking
appropriate funds for maintenance purposes. However, this has so far not taken place at the required
scale.




                                                 14

The prospects for the rehabilitated schools to continue to have teachers are more positive despite the
fact that there is a general lack of teachers in the country. The decision of the Government to recruit
1,000 teachers per year to address this deficiency through a World Bank financed Support to Basic
Education Project should be noted. In 2006, 650 teachers were recruited and this effort will have a
positive impact on the learning outcomes of the pupils in the longer term. A key achievement of the
project has been the implication of the PTAs in the financing of the maintenance of school facilities
on the basis of contracts signed between the PTAs, the Directorate of Primary Education in the
Ministry of Education and each headmaster. These arrangements have been working for some years
now.

Despite sustained efforts by the project team to have the HIV test centers totally integrated into the
public health system, they continue to suffer from low levels of resources to cover their operating
costs and they are already starting to suffer from lack of maintenance.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank engaged actively in donor coordination after the conflicts, and provided much needed
technical assistance for project preparation. It was also on the insistence of the Bank that transparent
and efficient project management procedures were set in place. The technical expertise of the Bank
was indispensable for project preparation in the post-conflict environment with extremely low client
capacity on the technical and organizational level. The task team reacted quickly during project
preparation at the late request of the Government to include a railway component and the Bank team
was therefore reinforced by a railway specialist. The task team engaged the Government and the
municipality of Brazzaville on the contracting out of activities, which would help assure
sustainability of investments.

The difficulties to adequately estimate the costing of the works at appraisal were due to reasons
beyond the control of the team, as described under Section 2.1. The project was appraised with 11.5
percent unallocated funds. The reduction in project amount between appraisal and negotiations
forced a reduction of the project activities, while unallocated funds were reduced to 5 percent. This
was too low given the high uncertainty around the technical design of works and exchange rate risks
and the project should have been downsized more. Costing turned out to be a major factor in project
performance, since cost increases caused a reduction in the works program, negatively impacting
project evaluation.

The preparation of the project took 9 months because some work had to be carried out by the Bank
and the IMF to restructure debt owed by the ROC and because it took time to establish the PIU,
which the Bank and the Government discussed at some length.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

Supervision missions were carried out regularly and were adequately staffed. Technical assistance by
the task team was essential for the implementation of the project, and supervision missions were
used to train PIU personnel. Technical and financial audits were conducted regularly and assured
implementation quality.

The task team knew after the mid-term review that the funds would not be sufficient and was ready
to prepare a restructuring. Bank management wanted this restructuring to take place along with an
additional financing and this was the main reason that the project was not restructured early on. The

                                                  15

Bank was not consistent in the response to the Government regarding the provision of an additional
financing. In spite of commitments made during negotiations and repeated in August 2005 the Bank
did not grant this additional financing. This decision, taken late in the project, precluded the required
corrective restructuring of the project. A clear position of the Bank, rejecting the request for
additional financing, would have permitted a restructuring immediately following the mid-term
review. This inconsistency concerning additional financing is a major factor in rating Quality of
Supervision.

Furthermore, the task team did not make use of M&E to flag the low performance of the CFCO in
PSRs / ISRs, and the project retained a satisfactory rating based on figures provided by the CFCO,
which were ultimately discovered to be erroneous. In fact, poor performance of the CFCO could not
have been reversed by the project as the emergency operation had limited impact on the management
of the CFCO.

Given the emergency nature of this operation and in the absence of deeper policy dialogue, the task
team could not make any more progress concerning the contracting out of maintenance activities,
which would help assure sustainability of investments. This type of dialogue was also premature and
difficult to conduct in a post-conflict environment while the country was engaged in reestablishing
some organizational and operational normalcy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The task team worked under difficult circumstances during appraisal but were able to prepare a well-
targeted, coherent, and relatively limited (given the needs) number of interventions. The reduction of
the credit amount prior to negotiations resulted in a too tightly budgeted program of interventions,
negatively impacting the quality at entry, and the quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

The performance of the task team during supervision was moderately unsatisfactory for the reasons
mentioned above. The needed restructuring was linked to the additional financing and the
inconsistency in the Bank position on additional financing prevented a timely corrective
restructuring of the project. Since the lack of restructuring is a principal cause for the moderately
unsatisfactory outcomes rating, the overall Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government agreed to use effective and transparent procurement procedures in a country that
was unaccustomed to this, and to establish an independently working PIU. Establishing the Steering
Committee including all the stakeholders greatly facilitated project preparation and guided project
supervision. The Government has made efforts to assure sustainability by establishing the Road Fund
and funding this Road Fund with some difficulties but the Government failed to implement the road
database. Teachers are being recruited but more teachers should be recruited to address the needs of
the schools. Further, the performance of the CFCO was weak and the project would have benefited
from the Government being more proactive in restructuring the operations of the CFCO, particularly
when the privatization of the CFCO did not materialize.

The Government produced an ICR listing project achievements and shortcomings, included in Annex
7. However, the Government has not capitalized fully on the experience and expertise of the PIU by
making a coordinated effort to transfer their competencies and build much needed capacity in the
administration.



                                                16

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

 Implementing                                             Performance
    Agency
1. PIU          Efficiency and efficacy of the PIU was high, with an operating cost of 4.4 percent of total
                project cost compared to the normal range of 5 ­ 10 percent, and an average turnaround time
                in effecting payment of invoices of 7 days, a best practice in the country. This short period
                was crucial to a construction industry that was still re-establishing itself after the conflicts.
                The PIU further assisted other project units executing Bank financed projects; including
                managing the PPF for the now active Bank financed HIV/AIDS and Health project.
2. CFCO         The CFCO received almost all materials foreseen during appraisal, based on their own
                analysis. In spite of this, the CFCO was unable to assure improved transport of goods since
                the ordered spare parts were not fully consistent with some of the most urgent needs of the
                fleet. The incorrect figures provided by the CFCO on transport of goods was a major factor in
                the project rating not reflecting actual project progress.
3. Municipality The municipality has so far not been able to assure sufficient resources for maintenance of
of Brazzaville project works, partly because of low and erratic transfers from the Government.
4. NPFA         The system is overall working well, but the Program under the Ministry of Health was not
                able to fully integrate the new HIV test centers, failing to provide them with the necessary
                resources to maintain and operate the facilities

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Government has made efforts to assure sustainability of project impacts, but there were
shortcomings in Government performance concerning the institutional environment of the CFCO and
in the performance of the CFCO itself. The PIU performed satisfactorily; the NPFA performed
moderately satisfactorily; and the municipality of Brazzaville did not perform satisfactorily.

6. Lessons Learned

A multi-faceted approach to mitigating capacity constraints is necessary in a post-conflict
environment. The PURCIV showed that a Project Implementation Unit was able to address the
almost complete lack of capacity and motivation prevailing in the administration at appraisal. The
PIU assured sound organization and timely project implementation and it is unlikely that the project
could have been implemented without the creation of a PIU with operational autonomy. Unlike most
emergency operations, the project was not extended, but disbursed almost 100 percent. However, a
clear exit strategy for the transfer of PIU competencies has to be defined at appraisal and
implemented diligently to ensure capitalization of experiences. A transparent and simple project
oversight and control environment further helped implementation and capacity building for private
contractors and quick payment of invoices was critical for the recovery of the construction sector and
to mitigate the shortcomings in terms of organizational capacities and mobilizing the necessary
construction equipment.

Cost overruns are common features of emergency operations dealing with infrastructure
activities and higher levels of unallocated resources are needed to address the higher level of
uncertainty. Dilapidated infrastructure is the norm in most countries before they dive into conflicts
and their conditions worsen during the years of conflict. Inability to visit isolated parts of the country
and the emergency nature of the projects will rarely allow for detailed technical studies to be carried
out before implementation, increasing the level of uncertainty in relation to costing of works. This
high level of uncertainty can be partially mitigated if a sizable amount of resources is posted as
unallocated in the financing of these projects.


                                                     17

Expectations in achieving results in emergency operations should remain low, particularly in
the absence of information on indicators and baselines. Baseline information is difficult to obtain
during preparation of emergency operations due to the speed in preparation and the lack of data in
the country. The tendency is to address the most pressing issues for the country to jump-start its
recovery but poor capacity, weak institutional arrangements, and limited financial means are real
constraints to achieving substantive progress in the relatively short implementation time of Bank
projects. Target-setting should be cognizant of these constraints and be less ambitious.

Balancing long term sustainability and short term impacts is a difficult exercise and normal
Bank operations should immediately follow the completion of emergency operations to address
long term sustainability. Achievement of immediate impacts remains the primary objective of an
emergency project. A challenging post-conflict institutional environment cannot be changed during
implementation because of poor capacity and inability to address the policy constraints that are
impeding sustainable delivery of services. The ability of emergency operations to address the most
pressing needs and showing some results on the ground offers opportunities to engage in policy
dialogue to address constraints to sustainability in a more traditional follow-up operation, as
countries and stakeholders become more ready to embrace these reforms.

Project performance is at risk when project restructuring is not carried out timely. After the
mid-term review, it was clear that unallocated resources were too limited to address the financing
gap and assure coherency of interventions. In hindsight it is clear that a project restructuring would
have been the best solution. Given the difficulties the project encountered with the additional
financing, combining the restructuring of the project and the search for additional financing
increased the risk of poor performance of the project. This is why it is advisable to opt for a fast
restructuring of the project in this type of circumstance and not to link restructuring and additional
financing.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In its comments on the draft Bank ICR, the borrower expresses satisfaction with the results achieved
by the project with the available resources but strongly regrets the change of position by the Bank
concerning the additional financing and the lack of restructuring of the project.

The response to this is that the Bank wanted to prepare a coherent set of interventions, combining the
additional financing and the restructuring of the project. However, the Bank has not been consistent
in its message to the client concerning additional financing. Had the Bank taken steps to restructure
the project, including a revision of project indicators, or honored commitments for an additional
financing, the project would have formed a more coherent set of interventions and the outcome
might well have been rated more positively.

(b) Cofinanciers

There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The task team has followed up with the EU and the AFD, which received the French translation of
the draft ICR, but they have not provided comments.




                                                 18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Project costs were verified by the project Financial Management Specialist using actual exchange
rates.

             Components             Appraisal Estimate      Actual /Latest     Percentage of
                                      (US$ million)           Estimate           Appraisal
                                                            (US$ million)

1. Primary and Secondary                   12.10               12.27               101.4
Infrastructure Rehabilitation

2. Employment Generation                   10.58               17.99               170.0

3. Railway Rehabilitation                  12.96               14.47               111.7

4. HIV Awareness                           1.47                 1.46                99.3

5. Institutional Strengthening and         1.93               2.77 (*)             143.5
Capacity Building

                 Total Baseline Cost       39.04               48.97               125.4

Physical Contingencies (**)                 0

Price Contingencies (**)                    0

                 Total Project Costs       39.04               48.97

Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         1.03                0.00                125.4

          Total Financing Required         40.00               48.97               122.4
(*) Including PPF.
(**) Unallocated 5 percent of project cost contained in component costs.

(b) Financing
 Source of Funds Type of Cofinancing Appraisal Estimate           Actual        Percentage of
                                           (US$ millions)     (US$ millions)      Appraisal
Borrower                       N/A              0.00               0.00               --
IDA                            N/A             40.00               48.97            122.4




                                               19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Primary and Secondary Infrastructure Rehabilitation

Cost:    Appraisal: US$12.1 million. Actual: US$12.3 million.
         25.1 percent of actual total project cost.

(i) Rehabilitation of 180 kilometers of roads in the primary inter-urban road network

The 180 kilometers of inter-urban roads were constructed as foreseen, including construction of
hydraulic works, refurbishing of the road surface and drainage works. The figure in the DCA and
Project Memorandum is 190 kilometers, but the sum of the length of all planned road sections is 180
kilometers.

The technical quality of the works was assessed as follows:

      (a)    Madingou-Sibiti (79 km) and Ngo-Mpouya (58 km):
             - Satisfactory for the hydraulic works.
             - Moderately satisfactory for the road surface.
      (b)    Kimandou-Moukoukoulou (43 km):
             - Unsatisfactory due to lack of terracing and profiling, badly constructed trenches and
             water underpasses, unremoved excavated earth and deforestation products, and quarried
             areas that have not yet been rehabilitated.

The bridge over the Niari River, which was included in the works program at mid-term, was not
constructed as foreseen due to lack of additional financing.

Unit costs of the rehabilitation vary between US$20,000 and US$125,000, depending on the
importance of collateral works (bridges, drainage and opening up of dense forests). The average cost
of inter-urban roads is US$68,333 per kilometer.

Nine construction companies submitted bids for the 4 lots of works. Three Congolese companies
won the contracts. Two international consultants undertook the works supervision.

(ii) Rehabilitation of 15 kilometers of badly damaged primary roads in Brazzaville

The primary roads planned for Brazzaville (15 km) have not been constructed due to increased unit
costs and budget constraints. Technical design studies were prepared for all road sections.

Component 2: Employment Generation

Cost:    Appraisal: US$10.6 million. Actual: US$18.0 million.
         36.7 percent of actual total project cost.

(i)  Social and Environmental Infrastructure

     - Rehabilitation of 124 classrooms in Brazzaville, including equipment.
     - Construction of 7 kilometers of tertiary drainage in Brazzaville.

129 classrooms have been constructed or reconstructed in 14 schools compared to a target of 124
classrooms; 11 administration buildings have been constructed; all works were judged technically
satisfactory by the technical audit.

4,264 meters of walls have been constructed to protect the schools, 65 latrines have been constructed
and 13 schools have been connected to the electricity grid.



                                                  20

The schools have been entirely supplied with furniture: 2,224 tables with chairs, 124 teacher tables,
and 13 tables for the school management as well as other furniture (tables and chairs for the
administration, and tables for pre-schools).

Forty-two construction companies submitted bids and the 13 lots were awarded to 4 Congolese
construction companies. The technical audit assessed the quality of the works as highly satisfactory.

(ii) Infrastructure to prevent further damage from erosion

Three sites were protected from erosion covering an area of 14,714 square meters against a target of
12,000 square meters.

Six companies submitted bids and the contracts were awarded to Congolese firms. The technical
quality of the works was assessed as satisfactory by the audit.

(iii) Transport Infrastructure

Only 97.5 kilometers of rural roads were constructed out of a target of 290 kilometers, at a total cost
of US$5.19 million or a unit cost of US$53,262 per kilometer. The difference between target and
actual achievement is due to budget constraints and unit cost increases.

13 construction companies submitted bids and two contracts were awarded to Congolese firms.

The technical quality of the works was assessed as follows:

      (a)    Abala-Impini (68 km):
             - Satisfactory for the hydraulic works.
             - Moderately satisfactory for the road surface.

      (b)    Bouansa-Ngouédi (12 km):
             - Unsatisfactory due to lack of terracing and profiling, badly constructed trenches and
             water underpasses, unremoved excavated earth and deforestation products, and quarried
             areas that have not yet been rehabilitated.

      (c)    Sonel-Kikongo (17 km):
             - Not evaluated by the technical audit.

Out of an objective of rehabilitation of 10 kilometers or tertiary roads and 7 kilometers of tertiary
drainage, 4.5 kilometers of both roads and drainage have been constructed. The difference is due to
budget constraints.

The works actually constructed were concentrated in the Moungali District due to the drainage
problems of the area and the integration with primary roads included in the original works package
(but not constructed due to budget constraints).

The paving technique used for the surface of the roads was innovative for Congo. The roads were
constructed with cobblestones manufactured by hand, which facilitated the creation of more work for
youth.

The technical quality of the road works was assessed as satisfactory by the technical audit.

The technical quality of the drainage works was assessed as partially satisfactory as they are not
completely straight, they slope the wrong way in places, and there are a number of spallings (broken
bricks).




                                                 21

Component 3: Railway Rehabilitation

Cost:    Appraisal: US$13.0 million. Actual: US$14.5 million
         29.5 percent of actual total project cost.

(i)  Reinforcing the radio-telecommunication network between stations and trains

The telecommunications equipment was not procured due to budget constraints.

(ii) Strengthening engine power capacity through spare parts acquisition

Spare parts have been delivered to the CFCO for the CC500, CC600 and BB700 engines, as well as
rails, sleepers and various spare parts for railway track maintenance. The audit on the usage of the
stock revealed that spare parts had been used as follows: 57 percent usage for the CC600 engines and
28 percent for the CC500 engines. The low level of usage for the CC500 engines was because three
engines are waiting for a general renovation and the available spare parts do not suffice for this due
to faulty diagnostics of needed spare parts.

The spare parts delivered have made possible the implementation of 38 limited repairs, 52 general
repairs and four complete repairs of engines. A total of 16 locomotives have been rehabilitated.

Locomotive availability has gone up from 47 percent to 52 percent.

(iii) Acquiring materials for emergency track repairs and spare parts for maintenance equipment,
       freight wagons, and passenger coaches

Sixty-three percent of the 36 kg rails have been used to upgrade 69,820 meters of railway compared
to a target of 109,990 meters. Only 3 percent of the 46 kg rails have been used on a total of 330
meters out of a target of 10,995 meters.

41,000 metal sleepers have been delivered to the CFCO and used on the railway. For the wooden
sleepers, only 3,853 have been delivered out of 17,500 procured. The sleepers actually delivered are
presently drying before being saturated with tar. The difference in the number of sleepers procured
and delivered is due to the failure of the supplier to deliver on time, and the contract was terminated
due to the short remaining duration of the project. 480 barrels of 200 liters of tar have been delivered,
of which only 60 (corresponding to 11 percent) are needed to treat the number of sleepers actually
delivered.

The spare parts delivered have made possible the rehabilitation of 214 commercial wagons.

The project further financed the construction of a weigh station in Brazzaville and the training of
eight staff of the CFCO in the management of the equipment.

(iv) Improving security conditions in the Mayombe tunnel

The rehabilitation of the Mayombe tunnel has not been carried out, because the sleepers were
delivered late and are currently drying so they can be impregnated with tar and used to upgrade the
tracks in the tunnel.




                                                  22

Component 4: HIV Awareness

Cost:   Appraisal: US$1.5 million. Actual: US$1.5 million.
        3.0 percent of total actual project cost.

(i)  Awareness programs at the national level and in primary and high schools, in Brazzaville, and
     in areas neighboring project construction sites (e.g. roads and railway) as well as condom
     distribution, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases of infected workers and sexual workers

Twenty NGOs have been trained in HIV/AIDS awareness raising and participated in the
implementation of the awareness campaigns.

Forty-two awareness campaigns have been carried out in the seven largest markets of Brazzaville, 14
schools, and in connection with all works carried out by the project.

The awareness campaigns have reached 80,000 persons, 180 clubs of friends fighting AIDS have
been formed, and 210 educator pairs have been trained.

(ii) Constructing and equipping two HIV test centers in Brazzaville

Two centers for anonymous HIV testing and a storage facility for contraceptives have been
constructed as planned. The works were judged satisfactory by the technical audit.

The two test centers have been entirely equipped by the project, including medical equipment,
furniture, IT and power generators. Four Elisa test systems (for blood transfusion) were purchased by
the project and reactants and products for testing were purchased for the centers. 2,052,000 male
condoms and 17,000 female condoms were purchased by the project.

12,823 persons have been tested in the centers, and 12 percent were found to be HIV positive. These
persons are referred to local hospitals for antiretroviral treatment.

The two centers have carried out 71 percent of all testing in Brazzaville.

Nationwide, 17.5 percent of all blood packages have been tested by the equipment delivered by the
project.

Component 5: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building

Cost:   Appraisal: US$1.9 million. Actual: US$2.8 million.
        5.7 percent of total actual project cost (including PPF).

(i) In the Ministry of Equipment and Public Works

      - Computerization of the road units. Development of and training in procedures to contract out
        maintenance activities to the private sector and to monitor employment creation in labor
        intensive public works and project implementation progress.
      - Computerization and updating of the road database.

MEPW has benefited from technical assistance for creation of a road database. Two civil servants
were trained as trainers of labor intensive construction methods and the General Directorate of
Public Works and the General Directorate of Equipment in the Ministry have been equipped with IT.

A civil servant of the General Directorate of Public Works and two members of the PIU have were
trained in the technique of paving roads using hand manufactured rocks.




                                                  23

(ii) In the municipality of Brazzaville

      - Computerization of the technical and financial units and development of procedures to
        contract out operations and maintenance of drainage and roads to the local private sector.
      - Capacity building in maintenance planning, procurement, monitoring of maintenance
        activities and performance of private sector contractors. Training of local consultants and
        contractors in implementing labor-intensive public works.

The municipality of Brazzaville has been equipped with IT and staff has undergone training in labor
intensive construction methods. A staff of the technical department of the municipality of
Brazzaville was trained in the technique of paving roads using hand manufactured rocks.

Further, training programs were carried out for the staff of MEPW and the municipality of
Brazzaville in the areas of planning and control of maintenance of roads and drainage, procurement,
management of labor intensive works and control of performance of construction companies. The
PIU organized this training, which was carried out by the International Labor Organization (ILO)
and reached more than 70 persons of the MEPW, the municipality of Brazzaville, private
construction companies, consultancy firms, and NGOs.




                                               24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The full text of the economic analysis can be found in the main text.




                                               25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                         Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Eustache Ouayoro        Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist AFTU2      TTL
Solange Alliali         Senior Counsel                      LEGOP
Jainaba Kah             Urban Specialist                    AFTU2
Renée Desclaux          Disbursement Officer                LOAAF
Abdul Haji              Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Samo          Lead Procurement Specialist         AFTQK
Ernestina Attafuah      Senior Program Assistant            AFTU2
Armele Vilceus          Program Assistant                   AFTU2
Alassane Diawara        Resident Representative for the     AF09
                        Republic of Congo
Karim Jacques Budin     Lead Railway Specialist             TUDTR
Mamadou Sevedé          Consultant                          Consultant
Dossou Yovo             Road Engineer                       Consultant
Supervision/ICR
Mahine Diop             Municipal Engineer                  AFTU2      TTL
Ernestina Attafuah      Senior Program Assistant            AFTU2
Monthe Bienvenu Biyoudi Economist                           AFTP3
Josyane E. Carmen Costa Team Assistant                      AFMCG
Mbaye Mbengue Faye      Consultant                          AFTU2
Jean Charles Amon Kra   Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Eustache Ouayoro        Sector Manager                      AFTU2
Christian Eghoff        Urban Development Specialist        Consultant ICR primary
                                                                       author




                                         26

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of Staff Weeks      US$ Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                   6                          42.51
  FY02                                  24                         166.23
  FY03                                   2                           5.41
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
                         Total:         32                         214.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                               0.00
  FY02                                                               0.00
  FY03                                  19                          76.11
  FY04                                  19                         100.61
  FY05                                  21                          46.14
  FY06                                  26                          30.62
  FY07                                   9                          31.94
                         Total:         94                         285.42




                                   27

Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results

(Not applicable)




                                     28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(Not applicable)




                                      29

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

Below are:

     1. The borrower's summary of the borrower's ICR.
     2. A translation of the borrower's summary of the borrower's ICR.
     3. The comments received from the borrower on the draft Bank ICR.
     4. A translation of the comments received from the borrower on the draft Bank ICR.

1. The borrower's summary of the borrower's ICR

RESUME

La République du Congo et l'association internationale de développement (IDA) ont conclu en date
du 10 septembre 2002 l'accord de crédit de développement Cr.3638-COB en vue de financer à cent
pour cent le coût raisonnable des travaux, fournitures et services de consultants nécessaires pour
réaliser les activités éligibles du projet d'urgence de réhabilitation des infrastructures et
d'amélioration des conditions de vie des populations (PURICV).

Le PURICV a pour objectifs d'aider le gouvernement du Congo à rétablir les activités économiques
et services sociaux de base par la remise en état des routes primaires et secondaires et des voies
urbaines, du Chemin de Fer Congo-Océan, des systèmes de drainage et des installations scolaires
ainsi que l'appui à la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA.

Le Projet s'articule autour de cinq composantes :

    · Composante A : Remise en état de l'infrastructure de routes primaires (15 km) à Brazzaville
         et secondaires (190 km) dans les départements de la Lékoumou, la Bouenza et des Plateaux ;
    · Composante B : Création d'emplois : Création de possibilités d'emploi pour les segments
         défavorisés de la population de l'Emprunteur, notamment les jeunes et les combattants
         démobilisés, par la conception, la préparation, l'exécution et le suivi de travaux de génie
         civil dans les départements de la Bouenza, des Plateaux et du Pool ;
    · Composante C : Remise en état partielle du Chemin de Fer Congo-Océan par le
         renforcement de la sécurité des liaisons ferroviaires, l'amélioration du transport ferroviaire et
         le développement des capacités de transport ;
    · Composante D : Sensibilisation au VIH/SIDA appui à la mise en oeuvre du programme
         national de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA ;
    · Composante E : Renforcement des institutions et des capacités : renforcement et
         optimisation des opérations du METP et de la municipalité de Brazzaville aux fins de
         l'exécution du projet.

Aux fins du Projet, le Gouvernement du Congo a ouvert des comptes spéciaux de dépôt libellés en
FCFA pour la gestion des ressources du projet. Tous ces comptes ont été ouverts, à des conditions
jugées satisfaisantes par l'IDA, y compris des protections appropriées contre toute compensation ou
saisie, ou tout blocage.

Pour l'exécution du projet, le gouvernement a créé le 1er février 2002 et maintenu par la suite,
pendant toute la durée de l'exécution du Projet, une unité de gestion du projet (UGP) dotée d'un
personnel qui possède des qualifications, une expérience, des performances au travail et des règles
déontologiques jugées satisfaisantes par l'IDA.

L'UGP/PURICV est responsable de la gestion et de l'exécution des activités du Projet, y compris la
gestion financière dudit Projet. Elle est placée sous l'autorité administrative du ministre de




                                                30

l'équipement et des travaux publics et sous le contrôle du comité de pilotage du projet, auxquels elle
fait rapport tous les trimestres.

Le gouvernement du Congo a maintenu pendant toute la durée de l'exécution du Projet le Comité de
Pilotage du Projet, lequel comprend des représentants des ministères des travaux publics et de
l'équipement, du plan de l'aménagement du territoire de l'intégration économique et du NEPAD, de
l'économie et des finances, de l'agriculture de l'élevage et de la pêche, de la santé et de la population,
de l'enseignement primaire et secondaire chargé de l'alphabétisation, des transports et de l'aviation
civile, de la Municipalité de Brazzaville ; des syndicats patronaux du secteur privé du bâtiment et des
travaux publics, des ONGs.

L'érosion monétaire du dollar par rapport à la monnaie de la République Française, combinée aux
dépassements des coûts des activités engagées, dus à une évaluation initiale trop faible a rendu
improbable l'exécution d'une partie substantielle du programme d'exécution du projet. Au 30 mai
2007, l'érosion monétaire est de 5.451.183.818 FCFA. Le gouvernement du Congo a introduit à
l'IDA, le 11 juillet 2005, une requête de ressources additionnelles de 14,6 millions USD à l'effet de
financer les activités des routes primaires de Brazzaville et du pont sur la rivière Loudima à Kikongo.
L'IDA, en date du 8 septembre 2006, a reconsidéré l'opportunité d'accorder au gouvernement du
Congo le crédit supplémentaire.

Au 31 janvier 2007, date de clôture du projet, l'exécution du programme détaillé des 136 activités
éligibles du PURICV se présente ainsi qu'il suit :

     · Activités terminées et réceptionnées sans réserve (travaux, fournitures, services de
         consultants)     126
     · Activités en cours (travaux et services de consultants) Réception partielle des travaux       02
     · Activités non engagées faute de ressources au projet (travaux, fournitures, services de
         consultants)     07
     · Activités abandonnées pour insécurité dans la zone d'implantation (services de consultants)
                 01

Le taux de décaissements au 30 avril 2006 est de 98,78% et s'élèvent à la somme de 25.344.643.197
FCFA dont :

     · Travaux                    13.364.620.865 FCFA
     · Fournitures                8.028.457.252 FCFA
     · Services de consultants 2.867.135.363 FCFA
     · Charges d'exploitation 1.084.429.717 FCFA

Au 31 janvier 2007, toutes les routes du projet ont fait l'objet d'études techniques et de dossiers
d'appel d'offres, à l'exception des routes rurales dans le Pool dont les études n'ont pas été réalisées
pour des raisons d'insécurité dans cette partie du pays.

180 km de routes interurbaines et de 97,5 km de routes rurales ont été réhabilités. La remise en état
de ces routes, a permis à 63.621 habitants de 59 villages d'avoir un meilleur accès aux centres
urbains. Le sentiment d'exclusion que certaines zones enclavées depuis plus de quinze ans avaient a
été effacé, contribuant ainsi à la réunification du pays. Ces axes desservent des secteurs à forte
potentialité agricole. La réhabilitation de ces axes a permis de désenclaver ces zones agricoles et
favorisé l'évacuation certaine de diverses spéculations. Les campagnes de sensibilisation sur le
VIH/SIDA menées pendant les travaux ont eu des impacts positifs dans le comportement des
populations et ont permis une meilleure connaissance de la maladie.




                                                 31

L'érosion monétaire du dollar par rapport à la monnaie de la République Française, combinée aux
dépassements des coûts des activités engagées, a rendu impossible l'exécution de 192,5 km de routes
rurales dont les études et dossiers de consultation des entreprises sont disponibles ainsi que la
construction du pont à structure métallique sur la rivière Niari à Mpassa / Madingou. Il convient de
souligner que la route Madingou Kimandou Sibiti réhabilitée par le projet pour un coût global de
4.084.970.219 FCFA (y compris les études et la supervision des travaux) ne peut être réellement
fonctionnelle que si le pont sur le Niari à Mpassa est réalisé. Actuellement la traversée de la rivière
sur le Niari se fait par un Bac vétuste qui ne fonctionne que trois à quatre mois dans l'année.

La reconsidération par l'IDA de l'octroi des ressources additionnelles au projet pour financer entre
autres ledit pont est forte de conséquences négatives sur la pérennité de la route Madingou
Kimandou Sibiti et la fonctionnalité de la boucle allant jusqu'à Moukoukoulou. Le gouvernement a
retenu de financer ces activités dans le cadre de son budget d'investissement.

Le projet a réalisé l'aménagement et la protection de 14.714 m2 de sites en proie à l'érosion à
Brazzaville pour un coût global de 1.251.271.827 FCFA (y compris études et supervision des
travaux) contre une prévision initiale de 1.245.083.485 FCFA. Ces travaux ont permis de nettoyer les
foyers d'ordures, de valoriser le bâti foncier dans les zones touchées par le projet, de redonner
confiance à de nombreuses familles qui avaient quitté le quartier pour de raison de risque trop élevé
d'éboulements.

Le projet a réalisé le pavage des routes tertiaires de Brazzaville. Ces activités ont permis de
réhabiliter près de 22.737.000 habitants de Brazzaville dans leur statut de citoyens de Brazzaville et
d'éradiquer entre autres les déversements des eaux vannes directement sur les rues, les gîtes larvaires
rendant par conséquence à cette zone son caractère viable, accessible et urbain. Au plan technique, le
fait que les routes primaires du projet ne soient pas réalisées, aura un impact négatif sur la gestion et
l'entretien des routes tertiaires remises en état au titre du projet. En effet, le très bon niveau de
service offert par ces routes induit un détournement de trafic lourd de la voirie primaire actuelle
(dégradée) sur ce réseau tertiaire. L'usure précoce de ces ouvrages est à prévoir faute d'alternative
immédiate.

Le projet a réhabilité et ou construit 129 salles de classes, 11 blocs administratifs, 4 264 mètres de
murs de clôture et 65 latrines et électrifié 13 écoles. Les écoles retenues au titre du projet ont été
équipées de mobilier scolaire. La réhabilitation des salles de classes dans 14 écoles primaires et
centres préscolaires (y compris l'équipement en mobilier scolaire) a eu un impact social et
environnemental très positif. L'environnement scolaire est devenu plus sûr (réduction du vandalisme
à l'intérieur des écoles, tranquillité) et plus sain, améliorant les conditions de travail des enseignants
et d'études pour les élèves qui étaient assis à même le sol. Cette activité a permis de ramener 15.443
enfants sur le chemin de l'école et 250 adultes dans le cadre de l'alphabétisation (cours du soir).

Le Chemin de fer Congo-Océan (CFCO), épine dorsale de l'économie du Congo a bénéficié de
l'appui du projet. Sur la base de la demande élaborée par les services compétents du CFCO, le projet
a acquis au nom et pour le compte du CFCO, des pièces de rechanges pour locomotives CC600 et
BB700, des fournitures à savoir rails, traverses métalliques, selles en fonte pour rail, attaches rigides
et accessoires (crapauds), éclisses. Le coût des activités ferroviaires est de 7.436.028.196 FCFA
contre une prévision initiale de 9.921.492.158 FCFA. Les acquisitions du PURICV au titre de la
composante ferroviaire ont permis au CFCO notamment de réaliser des interventions sur la ligne de
chemin de fer (voie) par le traitement de points critiques, la réhabilitation des locomotives et deux
cent quatorze (214) wagons, fourgons et voitures, trois grandes visites générales sur les locomotives
CC600, l'amélioration du taux de disponibilité des locomotives et des wagons ainsi que la
modernisation du système d'exploitation du trafic de marchandises par la construction et la mise en
service du pesage au défilé à la gare de Brazzaville. Malgré ces améliorations au niveau de
l'exploitation (disponibilité et une rotation assez régulière de trains entre Brazzaville et Pointe Noire),


                                                   32

l'objectif commercial d'augmenter le tonnage transporté de 50% entre 2002 et 2006 n'a pas été
atteint. Le tonnage de marchandises transportées au 31 décembre 2005 de 664.865 T ; ce qui
correspond à une progression de 7,7% par rapport à l'année de base 2002 où le tonnage transporté
était de 617.056 T.

Sur le plan de l'appui à la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et tenant compte de la situation post-conflit, le
projet a permis, d'une part construire et équiper deux centres de dépistage anonyme et gratuit et un
site de stockage des préservatifs à Brazzaville et d'autre part réaliser des campagnes nationales
d'information éducation communication (IEC) sur le VIH /SIDA, particulièrement axées dans les
établissements scolaires réhabilitées et les principaux marchés à Brazzaville, et sur les zones
attenantes aux routes et aux infrastructures et installations ferroviaires remises en état au titre du
projet. Une vingtaine d'ONGs ont été formées et mises à contribution pour ces activités de
sensibilisation au VIH/SIDA. Le taux de fréquentation des centres de dépistage est de 60%, ce qui
correspond à un impact important sur le changement de comportement des populations. Le projet a
permis de sensibiliser directement près de 80.000 personnes, créer 180 clubs d'amis de lutte contre le
SIDA et former 210 pairs éducateurs.

Les activités du bâtiment et des travaux publics au titre du PURICV ont induit la création de près de
400.000 hommes jours d'emplois à durée déterminée et permis de distribuer en deux ans près de
1.000.000.000 FCFA aux jeunes.

Le projet a généré 57 contrats de services de consultants, 18 marchés de travaux et 40 marchés de
fournitures pour un montant global de 25.656.565.824 FCFA. Les entreprises nationales ont exécuté
13.985.267.134 FCFA équivalent à 25.898.642,84 USD ce qui représente près de 55% des contrats et
marchés.

Les objectifs du projet sont pertinents et concordent avec les priorités du gouvernement de la
République du Congo en matière de lutte contre la pauvreté. L'approche d'intervention adoptée dans
le cadre du PURICV met l'homme au centre du développement. Cette approche a révélé une
dimension de renforcement des capacités et de la lutte contre la pauvreté des populations,
caractérisée par l'appropriation par les populations des investissements consentis.

Cette approche participative constitue une garantie importante pour la pérennisation des ouvrages
réalisés.

La Banque Mondiale, unique partenaire financier du projet, a régulièrement mobilisé et mis à la
disposition du gouvernement les fonds nécessaires. Le gouvernement en a assuré le suivi de
l'utilisation par l'unité de gestion du projet.

Les différentes missions de supervision de l'IDA, les audits techniques et financiers par des auditeurs
indépendants ont conclu d'une exécution satisfaisante du projet.

La transparence dans la procédure de consultation et de sélection des opérateurs a induit un
engagement et un intérêt de plus en plus croissant du secteur privé, de la société civile, des ONGs
dans les activités éligibles du projet.

Dans l'exécution des activités opérationnelles, les services de l'Etat ont collaboré de manière
appréciable dans la concrétisation des activités éligibles engagées. Ils ont pris part activement à la
procédure de passation des marchés, au suivi des activités sur le terrain. Le projet a été conduit par
un comité de pilotage dont le rôle a été de s'assurer de l'avancement harmonieux des activités
éligibles. Les demandes de remboursement de fonds transmises aux services de décaissement de la
Banque Mondiale ont été traitées dans des délais raisonnables.




                                                 33

La difficulté majeure durant le projet est la gestion de l'érosion monétaire du dollar par rapport à la
monnaie de la République Française, combinée aux dépassements des coûts des activités engagées,
dus à une évaluation initiale. Cette situation a rendu improbable l'exécution d'une partie
substantielle du programme d'exécution du projet. Le recours introduit par le gouvernement du
Congo le 11 juillet 2005 à cet effet n'a pas abouti du fait que l'IDA a reconsidéré par lettre du 8
septembre 2006 son accord du 5 août 2005 sur l'opportunité d'accorder au gouvernement du Congo
des ressources additionnelles pour financer lesdites activités. A la clôture du projet, de nombreuses
activités éligibles sont non engagées pour insuffisance de ressources au crédit. Pour une meilleure
évaluation des performances du projet, l'IDA aurait pu redéfinir les indicateurs du projet.

En vue de la pérennisation des activités, et sur la base des exigences en la matière (2%), pour un
investissement global de 13.382.947.022 FCFA au titre du PURICV pour les routes rurales et
urbaines, le gouvernement a inscrit au budget d'investissement exercice 2007 pour l'entretien des
routes par les ressources du Fonds routier, la somme de 270.000.000 FCFA soit 2,02% de
l'investissement du PURICV.

2. Translation of the borrower's summary of the borrower's ICR

The Republic of Congo and the International Development Association (IDA) signed a Development
Credit Agreement (Cr.3638-COB) on September 10, 2002, to finance at 100 percent the reasonable
costs for works, goods and services necessary to carry out activities eligible under the Emergency
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project (PURICV).

The objective of the PURICV was to assist the Government of Congo in re-establishing economic
activities and basic social services by the rehabilitation of primary, secondary and urban roads, the
Congo-Océan railway line, drainage networks and school facilities, as well as supporting the fight
against HIV/AIDS.

The project comprised five components:

    · Component A: Rehabilitate 15 kilometers of primary roads in Brazzaville and 190
         kilometers of secondary roads in the Lékoumou, Bouenza and Plateaux Departments.
    · Component B: Employment generation: Generating job opportunities for the deprived parts
         of the borrower's population, especially youth and demobilized combatants, through
         designing, preparing, implementing and monitoring of public works in the Bouenza,
         Plateaux and Pool Departments.
    · Component C: Partial rehabilitation of the Congo-Océan railway through increasing security
         of the railway line, improving railway transport and developing the transport capacity.
    · Component D: HIV/AIDS awareness-raising and support to the implementation of the
         National Program to Fight HIV/AIDS.
    · Component E: Institutional strengthening and capacity building: Strengthening and
         improving the functioning of the MEPW and the municipality of Brazzaville with a view to
         project implementation.

The Government of Congo opened special deposit accounts maintained in FCFA for the management
of project resources. All these accounts were opened under conditions being satisfactory to IDA,
including adequate safeguards against inappropriate use or access, or any blocking.

For the implementation of the project, the Government created a Project Implementation Unit on
February 1, 2002. This PIU was maintained during the implantation of the project and was provided
with staff with qualifications, experience, work performance and ethical standards satisfactory to
IDA.



                                                34

The PIU is responsible for the management and implementation of project activities, including the
financial management of the project. The PIU is under the administrative authority of the Ministry of
Equipment and Public Works and works under supervision of the Project Steering Committee, to
which it reports every quarter.

The Government of Congo has maintained the Steering Committee during the entire period of
project implementation. This Committee includes representatives from the ministries responsible for
public works and equipment, for planning and territorial administration, for economic integration
and NEPAD, for economy and finances, for agriculture, farming and fishery, for health, for primary
and secondary education in charge of literacy, for transport and civil aviation; from the municipality
of Brazzaville; from associations of private sector construction companies; and NGOs.

The depreciation of the dollar compared to the currency of the French Republic and the increase of
the cost of the launched activities due to a too low initial evaluation has made the implementation of
a substantial part of the project program unlikely. As of May 30, 2007, the depreciation amounts to
FCFA 5,451,183,818. On July 11, 2005, the Government of Congo submitted to IDA a request for
additional resources of USD 14.6 [sic] million to finance activities on primary roads in Brazzaville
and the bridge over the Niari River at Kikongo. On September 8, 2006, IDA reconsidered its
decision to grant a supplementary credit to the Republic of Congo.

As of January 31, 2007, the closure date of the project, the detailed program of implementation of
136 activities breaks down as follows:

    · Activities completed and received without qualification (works, goods and consultant
        services): 126.
    · Ongoing activities (works and consultant services). Partial reception of works: 02.
    · Activities not engaged due to lack of project resources (works, goods and consultant
        services): 07.
    · Activities abandoned due to insecurity in the area of implementation (consultant services):
        01.

On April 30, 2006 [sic], the disbursement rate was 98.78 percent, equal to FCFA 25,344,643,197, of
which:

    · Works:                      FCFA 13,364,620,865
    · Goods:                      FCFA 8,028,457,252
    · Consultant services:        FCFA 2,867,135,363
    · Operating expenses:         FCFA 1.084.429.717

As of January 31, 2007, all roads of the project have been the subject of detailed technical studies
and bidding documents, with the exception of roads in the Pool Department, for which studies have
not been carried out due to the lack of security in this part of the country.

180 kilometers of inter-urban roads and 97.5 kilometers of rural roads have been rehabilitated. The
rehabilitation of these roads has given 63,621 inhabitants of 59 villages better access to urban centers.
The feeling of isolation in some areas that had been cut off from the rest of the country for more than
15 years has been brought to an end, thus contributing to the reunification of the country. These
roads connect areas with strong agricultural potential and the rehabilitation of these roads has opened
up these agricultural areas and facilitated secure export of various assets. The awareness campaigns
on HIV/AIDS carried out concurrently with the works have had a positive impact on the behavior of
the population and have ensured a better knowledge of the disease.




                                                 35

The depreciation of the dollar relative to the currency of the French Republic and the increase of the
cost of the launched activities has prevented the rehabilitation of 192.5 kilometers of rural roads, for
which the technical studies and bidding documents are available, and the construction of the steel
bridge over the Niari River at Mpassa/Madingou. It should be noted that the road Madingou-
Kimandou-Sibiti rehabilitated by the project at cost of FCFA 4,084,970,219 (including studies and
supervision of works) will only be fully functional if the bridge over the Niari at Mpassa is
constructed. At present, the crossing of the Niari River is assured by a dilapidated ferryboat, which
only operates three to four months per year. The reconsideration by IDA of the granting of additional
resources for the project to finance, among others, the above mentioned bridge has strong negative
implications for the sustainability of the road Madingou-Kimandou-Sibiti and the functioning of the
road section going to Moukoukoulou. The Government has decided to finance these activities within
the framework of its own investment budget.

The project has assured the improvement and protection of 14,714 square meters of land in
Brazzaville threatened by erosion, at a cost of FCFA 1,251,271,827 (including studies and
supervision of works) compared to an initial provision of FCFA 1,245,083,485. These works have
facilitated the removal of waste from living spaces, increased the value of built-up land in the areas
affected by the project, given back confidence to a number of families that had left the area due to
the high risk of landslides.

The project has paved tertiary roads in Brazzaville, thus restoring the status of citizens to 22,737,000
[sic] inhabitants of Brazzaville and eliminating, among others, the emptying of black water directly
into the street and the breeding grounds for mosquitoes, thus making this part of the city livable,
accessible, and urban once more. On a technical level, the fact that the primary roads of the project
were not completed will have a negative impact on the operation and maintenance of the tertiary
roads rehabilitated by the project. In fact, the high level of service provided by these roads
encourages heavy traffic to take an alternative route to the primary, degraded road network and use
this tertiary road network in stead. An intensified use of the roads is foreseeable, due to the lack of
direct alternative.

The project has rehabilitated or constructed 129 classrooms, 11 administration buildings, 4,264
meters of enclosure walls and 65 latrines and connected 13 schools to the electricity grid. The
schools chosen for the project have been equipped with furniture. The rehabilitation of these
classrooms in 14 primary schools and preschools (including the provision of school furniture) has
had a very positive social and environmental impact. The school environment has become safer
(reduction of vandalism in the interior of schools, quiet) and healthier, thus improving the working
conditions of the teachers as well as learning conditions for pupils, who previously had to sit on the
floor. This activity has brought 15,443 children to school while 250 adults have benefited from
evening literacy classes.

The Congo-Océan railway (CFCO), the spine of the economy, has benefited from support from the
project. On the basis of requests prepared by the relevant units of the CFCO, the project has procured
spare parts on behalf of the CFCO for the CC600 and BB700 locomotives and goods such as rails,
metal sleepers, rail bearing plates, rigid brackets and accessories (adjusting clips), and splices. The
cost of the railway activities amount to FCFA 7,436,028,196 compared to an initial estimate of
FCFA 9,921,492,158. The acquisitions of the PURICV for the railway component has enabled the
CFCO to carry out activities on the rails in terms of dealing with critical points, rehabilitating
locomotives and 214 wagons, vans, and cars, three general overhauls of the CC600 locomotives,
improving the availability of locomotives and wagons, as well as modernizing the goods transport
system by the construction and putting into service of a weigh station at the Brazzaville railway
station. In spite of these improvements in terms of functioning (availability and a regular movement
of trains between Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire), the objective of increasing the tonnage of


                                                36

transported goods by 50 percent between 2002 and 2006 has not been achieved. The tonnage of
goods transported by December 31, 2005, was 664,865 tons, which corresponds to an increase of 7.7
percent compared to the baseline year 2002, when the tonnage transported amounted to 617,056 tons.

Concerning the fight against HIV/AIDS, and taking into account the difficult post conflict
environment of the country, the project has made the construction and equipping of two anonymous
and free HIV test centers possible and the construction of a contraceptive storage facility in
Brazzaville. The project has further implemented national information, education and
communication (IEC) campaigns on HIV/AIDS, specifically targeted towards the rehabilitated
schools, the main markets of Brazzaville, and towards areas bordering roads, infrastructures and
railway rehabilitated by the project. About 20 NGOs have been trained and participated in the
HIV/AIDS awareness-raising activities. The usage of the test centers is 60 percent, which
corresponds to a significant impact on behavior change of the population. The project has directly
raised awareness for 80,000 persons, created 180 clubs of friends fighting AIDS and trained 210
educator pairs.

The construction and public works activities of the PURICV have resulted in the creation of almost
400,000 person-days of short-term employment and over two years distributed close to FCFA 1
billion to youth.

The project has generated 57 contracts for consultant services, 18 lots of works, and 40 lots of goods
for a total amount of FCFA 25,656,565,824. National enterprises have carried out contracts for
FCFA 13,985,267,134, equivalent to USD 25,898,642.84 and representing 55 percent of contracts
and lots.

The objectives of the project are relevant and correspond to the priorities of the Government of the
Republic of Congo in relation to poverty reduction. The intervention approach used in the PURICV
puts the human at the center of development. This approach has revealed a dimension of capacity
strengthening and poverty reduction characterized by the adoption of the proposed investments by
the population. This participative approach constitutes an important guarantee for the sustainability
of the constructed works.

The World Bank, the only financial partner of the project, has regularly mobilized and made the
necessary funds available to the Government. The Government has assured the monitoring of the
expenditures through the Project Implementation Unit.

The various supervision missions by IDA and the technical and financial audits carried out by
independent auditors have considered the implementation of the project satisfactory.

The transparency in the process of consultation and selection of bid winners has induced a certain
level of engagement and a growing interest from the private sector, the civil society and NGOs
concerning activities eligible under the project.

In the carrying out of operational activities, the Government departments have collaborated in an
appreciable manner concerning the eligible activities engaged. They have actively taken part in the
procurement process and in the monitoring of activities in the field. The project has been guided by a
Steering Committee, charged with the harmonious progression of the eligible activities. The requests
for reimbursement transmitted to the loan department of the World Bank have been processed within
reasonable time limits.

The major difficulty during the project concerns the depreciation of the dollar compared to the
currency of the French Republic, combined with the increase of the cost of the launched activities
due to the initial evaluation. This situation has made the implementation of a substantial part of the
program unlikely. The remedy to this situation proposed by the Government of Congo on July 11,


                                                 37

2005, did not succeed, as IDA reconsidered, by letter dated September 8, 2006, its agreement of
August 5, 2005, concerning the possibility of granting the Government of Congo additional
resources to finance the aforementioned activities. At the time of project closure, numerous eligible
activities have not been launched due to insufficient credit resources. To get a better evaluation of
project performances, IDA could have redefined the project indicators.

To assure sustainability of activities, and on the basis of generally accepted norms (2 percent), the
Government has allocated FCFA 270,000,000 in its investment budget for 2007 for the maintenance
of roads by resources from the Road Fund, equal to 2.02 percent of the investment of FCFA
13,382,947,022 in rural and urban roads.




                                                38

3. Comments received from the borrower on the Bank's draft ICR




                                         39

40

4. Translation of comments received from the borrower on the Bank's draft ICR

The borrower's comments mention the amount of the credit, the level of disbursement and the loss of
money due to the depreciation of the FCFA.

The comments state that: "On the question of revision of the components and the performance
indicators of the project, the aide-mémoire of the mid-term review from May 24 to June 10 states
that:

            · Paragraph 9: The mission has reviewed the performance indicators of the project.
                For certain components, the indicators have shown to be too ambitious. This is the
                case for the number of kilometers of roads rehabilitated, of number of person-days
                of employment generated, etc. This situation is essentially caused by the lack of
                resources to implement the program as initially planned but also to too optimistic
                forecasts (in the case of employment generation). The mission has proposed an
                updating of these indicators, which will be submitted to the department of quality
                assurance of the Bank.
            · Paragraph 80: In conclusion, the mission recommends a revision of the project
                performance indicators as follows:
                    o Increase of the amount of goods transported on the Pointe-Noire-Brazzaville
                        railway by 50 percent by December 31, 2003 compared to 2001 ­ to be
                        revised to 50 percent by June 30, 2006 compared to 2001.
                    o Rehabilitation of 15 kilometers of urban roads by June 30, 2006 ­ to be
                        revised to 4 kilometers.



                                               41

                      o Rehabilitation of 480 kilometers of inter-urban and rural roads by December
                          31, 2006 ­ revise to 270 kilometers.
                      o Rehabilitation of 7 kilometers of urban drainage ­ retain 4 kilometers and
                          merge with the indicator with the rehabilitated roads.
                      o Generation of 750,000 person-days of employment ­ retain 560,000 person-
                          days.
                      o The equivalent of US$6 million of contracts to be implemented by national
                          firms ­ to be retained.

The favorable response initially given by the Bank concerning the additional financing, given as
reason [in the Bank ICR], does not justify that the project was not formally restructured. The
additional financing in question concerned partially the construction of a bridge over the Niari and
partially the construction of urban roads in Brazzaville, as incorporated in the new indicator for
urban roads. The rest of the activities were not related to the additional financing and the internal
formalities of the Bank concerning the involvement of the quality assurance department in the
revision of the performance indicators should not impact the evaluation of the project.

Concerning the safeguard aspects and the fiduciary obligations, it should be noted that pertaining to
the implementation of the recommendations of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment:

    · The works on the Bouansa-Ngouedi road did not entail any expropriations along the road.
    · The other project areas identified by the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment as
         necessitating compensation to affected persons were not included in the works program due
         to lack of funds.

Despite the positive impacts of the project, the Bank indicates two ratings for the project:

    · Insufficient (point 3.4, paragraph 1).
    · Unsatisfactory (point 3.4, last paragraph).

The justification of these ratings rests on the lack of achievement of the objective of transported
tonnage of goods on the railway. The multi-sectorial character of the project and the weight of each
sector (railway 33 percent, roads 30 percent, health 5 percent, others 27 percent) should be
remembered. The railway component has achieved 13 percent against 50 percent expected. The road
component has achieved 282 kilometers against 278 kilometers as revised or 502 kilometers
originally. Concerning the other indicators, the share of national firms has been largely surpassed
and the generation of employment is 400,000 person-days against 560,000 revised or 750,000
originally.

The sustainability of investments and management and maintenance of infrastructure and
installations constitute important aspects of the project. In this connection, permanent maintenance
contracts for the roads of PURICV for which the resources have been inscribed in the budget of the
Road Fund for the fiscal year 2007 (first year of the operation of the roads). [sic.]"




                                                 42

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The draft Bank ICR was shared with the AFD and EU but no comments were received despite
follow-up by the task team.




                                        43

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

· Project Memorandum (Project Document).
· Development Credit Agreement.
· Project aide-mémoires.
· Impact studies:
        1. Schools and HIV test centers.
        2. Road and erosion protection works in Brazzaville.
        3. Roads in the Bouenza and Lekoumou Regions.
        4. Roads in the Plateaux Region.
· Technical audit.
· Audit of the CFCO.
· Project Status Reports (PSRs).
· Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs).
· Government Implementation Completion Report.
· Official correspondence concerning additional financing, restructuring, and extension of project
  closing date.
· Transitional Support Strategy (2000).
· Transitional Support Strategy (2003).
· Interim Support Strategy (draft dated March 7, 2007).
· Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (draft dated January 2007).




                                            44

Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex): Photo Documentation

Component 1 (i): Rehabilitation of 180 kilometers of inter-urban roads

                ROAD MADINGOU-KIMANDOU: ROAD SECTION WITH BRIDGE




                    BEFORE                                      AFTER

           ROAD MADINGOU-KIMANDOU: THE CROSSING OF THE NIARI RIVER




   WHEN THE FERRYBOAT IS NOT OPERATING             WHEN THE FERRYBOAT IS OPERATING

                  ROAD KIMANDOU-SIBITI: ROAD SECTION WITH BRIDGE




                 BEFORE                                            AFTER




                                           45

        ROAD KIMANDOU-SIBITI: ROAD SECTION




  BEFORE                                    AFTER

ROAD KIMANDOU-SIBITI: INCREASED USE OF SOCIAL SERVICES




HEALTH CENTER           SCHOOL (BEHIND THE CHILDREN)


         ROAD NGO-MPOUYA: ROAD SECTION




  BEFORE                     AFTER, WITH BARRIER TO STOP TRAFFIC
                                        DURING RAINS




                        46

                    ROAD KIMANDOU-MOUKOULOU: RIVER CROSSING




    BEFORE: IMPERMANENT LOG BRIDGE               AFTER: PERMANENT DOUBLE CULVERT

Component 2(i): Social and Environmental Infrastructure (Schools)

                  MAKÉLÉKÉLÉ : POTO-POTO DJOUÉ PRIMARY SCHOOL




                   BEFORE                                       AFTER

                         MOUNGALI: DE LA PAIX PRIMARY SCHOOL




                   BEFORE                                       AFTER




                                         47

                       TALANGAÏ: GASTON LENDA PRIMARY SCHOOL




                   BEFORE                                      AFTER


                      TALANGAÏ: MARCEL IBALIKO PRIMARY SCHOOL




                   BEFORE                                      AFTER
Component 2(ii): Infrastructure to Prevent Further Damage Caused by Soil Erosion


                          PROJECT EROSION PROTECTION WORKS




                    BEFORE                                    AFTER




                                           48

              TREATED EROSION AND COMPARATIVE NON-TREATED EROSION




UNTREATED EROSION BY RUE BALIMALOU (FOR              EROSION TREATED BY THE PURICV
                COMPARISON)


              TREATED EROSION AND COMPARATIVE NON-TREATED EROSION




       ATTEMPT AT STABILIZATION BY                EROSION TREATED BY THE PURICV
   AVENUE DISPENSAIRE (FOR COMPARISON)

Component 2(iii): Transport Infrastructure (Rural Roads)

             REOPENING OF THE ROAD ABALA-EPOUNOU-ANGOULOU-IMPINI




     DURING ROAD CONSTRUCTION                       CONSTRUCTING THE CROSSING OF THE
                                                              FOBO RIVER



                                           49

                    ABALA-IMPINI: THE CROSSING OF THE KOMO RIVER




           NEW METAL BRIDGE                           APPROACH TO THE BRIDGE

Component 2(iii): Transport Infrastructure (Tertiary Roads in Brazzaville)

                        MOUNGALI NEIGHBORHOOD: RUE DJOUE




               NON-REHABILITATED SECTION           REHABILITATED SECTION

                     MOUNGALI NEIGHBORHOOD: AVENUE DE BRAZZA




            DURING CONSTRUCTION                    STABILIZING THE COBBLESTONES
                                                             WITH SAND




                                           50

              MOUNGALI NEIGHBORHOOD: DRAINAGE AND WASTE (AFTER)




                   WASTE COLLECTION ON A          DRAINAGE WITH
                 REHABILITATED ROAD SECTION     BUILD-UP OF WASTE


Component 3: Railway Rehabilitation

                 REHABILITATION OF TRANSPORT MATERIAL: WAGONS




               WAGON BEFORE                        WAGON AFTER

                 REHABILITATION OF TRANSPORT MATERIAL: WHEELS




                 USED WHEELS                      NEW WHEELS




                                      51

                          MATERIAL FOR TRACK REPAIRS




   METAL SLEEPERS PUT TO USE         WOODEN SLEEPERS DESTINED FOR THE MAYOMBE
                                              TUNNEL BUT NOT YET USED


Component 4: HIV/AIDS Awareness


                      HIV TEST AND COUNSELING CENTER




            HIV TEST CENTER                       DOCTOR'S OFFICE


                            CONTRACEPTIVE STORAGE




            STORAGE FACILITY                       MALE CONDOMS




                                    52

                          AWARENESS RAISING




PRESENTING HIV TESTING STATISTICS         PARTICIPANTS AT AN
                                       AWARENESS-RAISING EVENT




                                 53

