                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 30876


                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-34510)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION (US$ 3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                           FOR THE

             THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (FRDP III TA)




                                      December 27, 2004




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 3
Africa Regional Office

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 27, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                                        MK1 = US$ 0.00921
                                       US$ 1 = MK108.05

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1   June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGS      Central Government Store
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DHRMD    Department of Human Resources Management and Development
FIMTAP   Financial Management, Transparency and Accountability Project
FY       Fiscal Year
GCU      Government Contracting-Out Unit
GoM      Government of Malawi
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
IFMIS    Integrated Financial Management Information System
INTOSAI  International Organization of Supreme Audit Institution
MoF      Ministry of Finance
MTEF     Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NAO      National Audit Office
NORAD    Norwegian Aid
OoDPP    Office of the Director of Public Procurement
PAC      Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly
PFM      Public Financial Management
PS       Permanent Secretary
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency

                              Vice President:   Gobind Nankani
                            Country Director    Hartwig Schafer
                             Sector Manager     Helga Muller
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Yongmei Zhou

                                           MALAWI
       THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
                          TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Government ICR                                                          28

Project ID: P073832                                                  Project Name: TA - ADJUSTMENT (FRDP III)
Team Leader: Yongmei Zhou                                            TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TA - ADJUSTMENT (FRDP III)                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-34510
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); General education sector
                            (19%); Health (13%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                            (12%); Telecommunications (6%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Standards and financial reporting (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (S); Education for all (S); Health system performance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/21/1999                                     Effective: 04/11/2001                01/23/2001
     Appraisal: 09/20/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/21/2000                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Malawi/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                 Helga W. Muller                                Brian Levy
Team Leader at ICR:             Patricia Palale                                Sudhir Chitale
ICR Primary Author:             Yongmei Zhou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Original objectives of FRDP III TA. The Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Technical
Assistance Project (FRDP III TA) was a companion operation for the Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation
Program (FRDP III) adjustment credit presented to the Board in November 2000. The FRDP III adjustment credit
was designed to reduce the deficit through a complex set of reforms to improve public sector expenditure
management, to privatize or increase the efficiency of key parastatals, to target the social safety net so as to reduce
its cost, and to increase revenue collections. The objectives of the FRDP III TA operation included 1) assisting in
implementing the policy measures under FRDP III; 2) assisting in evaluating the impact of FRDP III; 3)
developing an agenda for the next macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms. (See Schedule 2 of the
Development Credit Agreement).

Despite the broad objectives, the actual focus of the project was on improving public financial management, in
particular through strengthening external audit and improving public procurement (see Annex 2 of President's
Report for the FRDP III adjustment credit and the TA credit). Prior to Board Presentation, two key policy decisions
had been taken by GoM and paved the way for further reform in public financial management and procurement.
One is the Cabinet decision to separate the accounting and auditing functions and establish an independent and
well resourced National Audit Office consistent with the international best practice; and the other is the Cabinet
decision to decentralize public procurement responsibilities to the spending entities. This project was to finance the
consultancy, training and equipment necessary for establishing a strong legal and regulatory framework for
financial management (in particular an independent Supreme Audit Institution) and procurement as well as
establishing a strong institutional capacity to carry out these functions. Supporting government reform in this area
was clearly in line with IDA's focus on improving the country public expenditure management system and
reducing fiduciary risks of our lending.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components as outlined in the DCA include:
Component 1. Financial Management (US$ 400,000): strengthening the financial management framework to
ensure that public funds are used efficiently and for the purpose for which they are intended, through the provision
of technical advisory services for the separation of the public finance and public audit functions and the enactment
of new legislations; and strengthening the capacity and authority of the office of the Auditor General through
training and the provision of technical advisory services.
Component 2. Procurement reform (US$ 2,400,000): establishment and strengthening of a Procurement
Authority through the provision of training, technical advisory services and acquisition of new office equipment.
Component 3. Other Reform Activities (US$ 200,000): carrying out of further studies to improve public sector
management, through the provision of technical advisory services.
The first two components are directly related to achieving the objectives. They were well focused and avoided
complex design, which was consistent with the lessons learned in public sector reform experience in Malawi and
other countries on the continent. The third component was included to allow for flexible support to the
implementation of the other policy objectives of FRDP III. The current practice of having a separate component on
project coordination and management was not part of the design. The lack of attention to project management
arrangement later turned out to be a major deficiency in implementation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

The project did not adequately assess the GoM readiness for the procurement reform program, which was to be
financed by eighty percent of the Credit. Procurement reform had been on the agenda of policy dialogue between



                                                          - 2 -

the GoM and IDA since at least mid 1990's but made little progress beyond a comprehensive diagnostic study and
a reform proposal prepared in 1996. While it was welcome news when GoM requested support to pursue
procurement reform under FRDP III and FRDP III TA, it would have been prudent for IDA to critically assess the
government readiness for reform by examining whether there was a robust implementation and oversight
arrangement that would generate and sustain the momentum for reform. Experience shows that for a major
institution reform such as procurement reform, it is critical to have a reform champion, a clearly communicated
vision, a steering committee consisting of stakeholders genuinely interested in generating and sustaining a
momentum for reform, a management structure with the technical capacity to perform, a realistic implementation
plan, a rigorous monitoring and evaluation plan, and a careful risk assessment and proposals for mitigating risks.
While GoM provided a budget and timetable for implementation of the procurement reform component at
Negotiations, the other elements of readiness were missing. These design elements were standard requirement for a
Project Appraisal Document, but the Project, presented as a companion credit for the FRDP III adjustment credit,
did not go through the regular project design and quality assurance cycle. No Project Appraisal Document was
prepared. A five-page Annex 2 of the President's Report on FRDP III was the only description of the Project at the
time of Board Presentation.

In retrospect, although there was a mutual agreement on the need for procurement reform, there was limited
government buy-in of the solution proposed by IDA. Government officials interviewed during the ICR indicated
that the Bank team at the time insisted on a fully decentralized system and an independent Procurement Authority
as the only acceptable solution and did not pay adequate attention to government's genuine concerns about capacity
in the procuring entities and the division of responsibilities between the proposed new authority and the other
institutions. To ensure the full buy-in of the reform model, it would have been worthwhile for the Bank team to
engage in extensive dialogues with the GoM on a full range of options, e.g., a fully centralized system, a fully
decentralized system, and intermediate options whereby a subset of procurement functions are performed by
decentralized units and other functions are performed by a central authority. Debates on the pros and cons of the
various options would have led to mutual understandings of the concerns of both sides. Insisting on a model that
was not fully appreciated by GoM may have generated commitment by GoM on paper (see the Letter of
Development Policy for FRDP III) but the unresolved concerns of key decision-makers led to two more years of
back-and-forth before the Cabinet finally accepted the proposal in Sep. 2002, apparently under a great deal of
pressure from IDA. It was not until Sep. 2003 that the new Public Procurement Act was passed by Parliament, two
years after the expected date of enactment.

Another major weakness of the project design was the inconsistency between the development objectives, the actual
focus of the project and the agreed performance indicators. While the development objectives were to support the
implementation of the broad set of the reforms supported by the adjustment credit, the actual focus of the project
was to improve the public financial management by a) strengthening the legal framework for auditing and public
procurement; b) strengthening the capacity of the National Audit Office to perform audit; c) establish a public
procurement authority and establish its capacity to regulate and monitor public procurement; d) establish
procurement capacity in procuring entities; e) reform the central government stores. The agreed performance
indicators reflected only a subset of these expectations. The lack of clarity on what exactly are success indicators
has complicated the task of monitoring during the implementation and ICR stages.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As mentioned above, the development objective of the project was broader than the actual focus of the project and
neither was reflected by the performance indicators agreed to in the DCA. The ICR assesses the achievement of
objective by first documenting the actual achievement of the DCA performance indicators (see Annex 1) and then
assesses whether the project has contributed to an improvement in the capacity of auditing and public procurement.

Annex 1 documents the agreed indicators, appraisal targets and the actual performance. Since these indicators
would be more appropriately called (an incomplete set of) implementation milestones rather than outcome
indicators, Annex 1 merely documents whether the project progressed at an expected pace and is not an accurate
representation of the actual achievement of the project. Annex 1 shows that on average the actual implementation



                                                          - 3 -

of the first component had a lag of one and half year and several activities were not undertaken; and the actual
implementation of the Procurement Reform Component had a lag of more than two years. As a result, even though
the project was extended for six months, the substantive achievement of the project includes mainly new legislation
in public finance management, audit and public procurement and proposals for institutional reform and capacity
building. Actual implementation of the institutional reform and capacity building proposals falls short of
expectation due to the delays in establishing an improved legal and regulatory foundation.

Considering that the project was designed to support the implementation of the reform agenda agreed to under the
FRDP III adjustment credit, the ICR also documents below whether the targets agreed to in the FRDP III Policy
Matrix (Annex 1 of the President's Report) regarding auditing and procurement reforms have been achieved.

l   Expected result #1. A new legislation to separate the financial management and auditing functions: achieved.
    Public Finance Management Act 2003 enacted holding Controlling Officers accountable for proper financial
    management. Public Audit Act 2003 enacted, vesting the auditing function in the National Audit Office.
l   Expected result #2. A fully independent Auditor-General's Office, with adequate staffing and budgetary
    provision: not achieved. According to the Public Audit Act 2003, "the Auditor General shall have
    independence of office in accordance with subsection (7) and (8) of section 184 of the Constitution," i.e., the
    Auditor General is appointed by the President and can only be fired by the President. This is in contrast with
    other countries where the appointment of the Auditor General is a prerogative of the legislature rather than the
    executive. Section 17 of the Public Audit Act requires that "the National Assembly shall appropriate sufficient
    moneys, on a timely basis, to enable the effective and efficient operation of the Auditor General and the
    National Audit Office." Budget appropriated for NAO in Fiscal Year 2003/2004 was K62 m and actual
    allocation was K50 m. As the reduction of K12m was in Other Recurrent Transactions, the operational
    implication was that NAO was unable to audit most of the local assemblies and embassies. A staffing strategy
    for NAO has been developed but is yet to be implemented. In the Fiscal Year 2004/2005 budget submission,
    NAO has requested to increase filled posts from 148 to 218. The authorized establishment is 381. New
    Conditions of service for the audit service have been proposed and are yet to be approved. In addition to the
    challenge of rapidly building up a skill base in NAO to carry out its mandate, the NAO has an additional
    challenge to deal with the transition issues, where considerations of allowing the existing staff to join the new
    NAO may compromise the quality of staff required and may cause cultural clashes between new recruits of
    professional staff and inherited under-qualified staff. Experience elsewhere shows that a transformation of an
    old organization into a new organization is often difficult, because it involves the additional change
    management challenge and requires a determined leadership.
l   Expected result #3. The audit coverage of ministries increases from 45% in 1999 to 75% in 2002: not
    achieved. According to the ICR for the FRDP III Adjustment Credit, the audit coverage in 2002 was
    approximately 60%.
l   Expected result #4. A new legal framework for the procurement authority: achieved. New Public Procurement
    Act 2003 enacted. It establishes an Office of the Director of Public Procurement (OoDPP) to regulate and
    monitor public procurement.
l   Expected result #5. A well staffed procurement authority: not achieved. OoDPP has been established with the
    appointment in Feb 2004 of the Director and temporary appointment of the Deputy Director and three senior
    staff. The rest of the OoDPP is yet to be staffed. After Project Closing, Conditions of Service for OoDPP staff
    have been proposed but are yet to be approved by DHRMD and the Treasury. Recruitment is pending. As a
    champion for procurement reform, OoDPP needs to broaden support for reform, management resistance from
    those who stand to lose from the changes and gradually build up the procurement capacity within procuring
    entities. Without strong institutional capacity within OoDPP, the procurement reform is unlikely to progress.
l   Expected result #6. A transparent procurement process: not achieved.

Although the achievement of the project falls short of the expectation at the time of Board Presentation, the project
has prepared solid ground for further reform in financial management. The new government that came into power
in May 2004 has made public its determination to fight corruption and to jimprove transparency and accountability
of government. The new legislations and regulations prepared under the Project will provide a strong starting point
as the new GoM strengthens its implementation capacity for further reform. IDA is providing continued support to




                                                         - 4 -

GoM's PFM reform program under the FIMTAP operation. Considering also the overly ambitious expectations of
the pace of reform (see Section 3 on Quality at Entry), the ICR rates the overall achievement of the project outcome
as moderately unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project does not have a central record of all the outputs or inputs by components. While the Reserve Bank of
Malawi has a record of all the expenditures on consultancy, equipment and training activities, the expenditures
were not assigned to the three project components. The ICR had to make a judgment based on the intended purpose
of the expenditures. While it is easy with respect to most consultancies and equipment, it was not straightforward
to assign training expenditures by component, especially with regard to the large amount of training benefiting the
MoF staff. The Credit financed scholarships for master degrees (in development economics, financial economics,
international development studies, computer science, economic policy analysis, international finance) and short
courses in project management, external debt management, information system, trade policy, optimization of
government funding, etc. For the ICR purpose, training of MoF staff in the areas of public finance and budget
management has been classified as training under Component 1. The other training activities have been classified
as training under Component 3. The following table presents a summary of project expenditures by component and
by expenditure category.

                                         Component 2.
                         Component 1. Procurement Component 3.               Total Actual       Appraisal % actual/
                          PFM reform         reform       Other reforms         Spending         Estimate appraisal
Consultancy                      396,088        518,560           179,393      1,094,042    1,000,000.00       109%
Equipment                         67,894        311,769            23,391        403,054      440,000.00        92%
Training                         192,407        149,264           349,908        691,579          880,000       79%
Unallocated                                                                                       680,000
   Total actual spending         656,389        979,593           552,693      2,188,675
      Appraisal estimate         400,000       2,400,000          200,000      3,000,000
       % actual/appraisal          164%             41%              276%           73%

Component 1. Public finance management reform. While the achievement of this component fell significantly
short of expectation (see Section 4.1 discussions on Results #1-3), the project contributed to a significant
improvement in the legal framework for public financial management. The Public Finance Act 2003 and Public
Audit Act 2003 replaced the old Finance and Audit Act as the new legal framework for financial management and
audit. Both laws are judged to be good quality. The Public Audit Act is generally in line with the International
Organization of Supreme Audit Institution (INTOSAI) requirements and reflects modern financial management
and international practice. Some notable features of the Act include: 1) allowing the NAO to contract out audit; 2)
requiring external audit of the NAO itself; 3) emphasizing reporting and providing a statutory basis for the Public
Accounts Committee, which is responsible for handling NAO reports in Parliament.

The project also financed some preparatory work on institutional development strategies for the key agencies that
are to lead the PFM reform process. A functional review of the Ministry of Finance has been undertaken and is
currently being reviewed by the Ministry. A report on National Audit Office Institutional Strengthening
Implementation has been prepared. It describes the core functions of NAO consistent with the new Public Audit
Act 2003 and recommends an organization structure for NAO. It also proposes a new Establishment Schedule, a
grading structure, new conditions of service, a career structure for audit professionals and technicians, as well as
an implementation plan detailing the transition from the existing organization to the new setup.

Both NAO and MoF benefited from the office equipment purchased under this technical assistance. Most of the
training expenditures under this component benefited the MoF Staff. With the exception of an executive secretary,
no NAO staff benefited from training financed by the project. In FY03/04, NAO supported fourteen officers to
attend AAT ACCA courses at various levels at the Malawi College of Accountancy. Four officers attended courses
in Value for Money Audit. None of them were supported by the Project.




                                                         - 5 -

The ICR rates this component as moderately unsatisfactory.

Component 2. Public Procurement Reform. This component supported the development of the Public
Procurement Act 2003, which provides a strong legal framework for a decentralized, transparent and accountable
procurement process. The legislation requires the adoption of procedures for transparent, efficient and economic
procurement and helps prevent fraud and corruption in procurement. It also provides a fair opportunity to all
prospective suppliers of goods, works and services. In addition, the legislation provides for a professional
procurement cadre. The legislation establishes an Office of the Director of Public Procurement (OoDPP) to regulate
and monitor public procurement. At Project Closing, the Director had been appointed and four staff from the GCU
had been temporarily assigned to OoDPP. The rest of the OoDPP is yet to be staffed. Since the Project Closing
date, Conditions of Service for OoDPP staff have been proposed but are yet to be approved by DHRMD and the
Treasury. Recruitment is pending. The Project financed some equipment to help OoDPP start operation. Some
training of the OoDPP management was supported by the Project. Considering the immediate needs to develop
procurement capacity in the procuring entities (the Internal Procurement Committees and the Special Procurement
Units), a comprehensive capacity building strategy has been developed, including a detailed strategy to develop a
procurement cadre. A limited amount of training was provided to some Internal Procurement Committees. The full
capacity building strategy is yet to be implemented. No progress has been made to rationalize and modernize the
Central Government Stores.
The implementation of this component lagged behind the expected timetable by more than two years. As a result,
significant implementation activities envisaged at Negotiations were not carried out. The disbursement ratio was
41%. It is worth noting, however, that the benchmark against which the ICR judged the achievement of this
component might have been overly ambitious. The recent procurement reform experience in various African
countries has demonstrated that procurement reform generally meets strong resistance among political and
bureaucratic elites as it reduces their rent-seeking opportunities. Even with a genuinely committed political
leadership, the reform process involves balancing many interests and creating a strong alliance. The general lack
of technical capacity in procurement that persists in African countries poses additional challenges to improving the
efficiency and accountability of the procurement system. With the benefit of hindsight, the agreed implementation
timetable for the procurement reform component was overly optimistic. For the legal/regulatory reform as well as
major institutional development and capacity building to complete in three years seems to be a significant
underestimate of the challenges involved in effecting procurement reform. Therefore this component is rated as
moderately unsatisfactory.

Component 3. Other activities to prepare the next phase of structural and sector reforms. This component
was designed to be a flexible funding window to finance activities that are necessary for the identification of the
next phase of structural and sector reforms. The actual expenditure was US$ 552,693, 276 percent of the appraisal
estimate. Almost $350,000 worth of training was undertaken and the main beneficiaries were Ministry of Finance
staff. Some staff have returned to serve in the Ministry and others are expected to return upon completion of study.
There was no documentation of the outcome of the training activities nor evaluation of their effectiveness in
improving capacity.

Just under one third of the expenditure under this Component financed consultancies, including a Tax Reform
Study; an Energy and Power Policy Study; a Quantitative Model for Macroeconomic and Poverty Scenarios;
Costing for Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; Food Availability and Accessibility Assessment; and the design of a
Medium-term pay reform strategy. These studies provided critical inputs for GoM in the design of PRSP as well as
the subsequent phase of structural reforms.

This component is therefore rated as moderately satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.




                                                         - 6 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project helped establish the legal foundation for PFM reform and procurement reform. Institutional
development strategies and implementation plans for a few key implementing agencies for the PFM reform and
procurement -- the National Audit Office, and the Office of the Director of Public Procurement -- have also been
prepared and are ready for implementation. But since implementation was not undertaken under the Project, the
institutional development impact is rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
According to the ICR of the FRDP III adjustment credit, the pressure in late 2000 to move quickly with FRDP III
so as to help GoM qualify for HIPC debt relief led to the design of a single-tranche FRDP III. This design has less
leverage for further reform than a traditional two-tranche operation. The TA operation lacked a critical assessment
of the political commitment for difficult reforms and a careful design of the implementation arrangement. Frequent
changes of World Bank Team Leaders (five during the project duration) resulted in a loss of continuity in project
supervision.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Ministry of Finance was mainly interested in obtaining the FRDP III adjustment credit. Once the
single-tranche credit was disbursed, GoM showed little interest in ensuring that the two reforms supported by this
Project were rigorously pursued. Neither was there sufficient effort to ensure that the resources under the Project
was utilized effectively to achieve the original objective. GoM did not set up a proper coordination and
management structure for this project. The procurement reform component was left to the Government
Contracting-Out Unit (GCU), a unit subject to reform, rather than a stakeholder group that would be interested in
pushing forward the reform. The only task force that worked well was the one working on the new Public Finance
Management Act and the new Public Audit Act. It involved stakeholders from various agencies who were
genuinely interested in improving financial management.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ministry of Finance, the Implementing Agency for the Project, does not have a dedicated staff to perform the basic
project management functions (coordination, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation).
There was a frequent change of coordinators, who at the same time were full time MoF staff performing other
functions. The accounting function was performed by the Reserve Bank of Malawi, which seemed to have done a
reasonable job of keeping records of commitment and spending. There was very limited monitoring of project
implementation and no evaluation.

The implementation arrangement was not participatory. MoF was perceived not to have fully informed the other
beneficiaries of the project about the funding they can access for training purposes until there was pressure for
disbursement towards the end of the project. As a result, the Treasury staff benefited disproportionately from the
project resource while the NAO and the Accountant General's Department benefited little from the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total estimated cost of the project was US $3 million financed through an IDA credit. There was no estimate of
counterpart funding at Appraisal. At the end of the project (June 30, 2004), a total of US $2.19 million was utilized
from the IDA credit indicating a disbursement rate of 73 percent. The implementing agency could not provide data
on the counterpart funding provided by GoM. Since only locally procured equipment required 10% of counterpart
funding, it is estimated that up to US $25,500 was provided by GoM to local suppliers of equipment.

There was significant delays in disbursement, esp. during the first two and half years of implementation. In fact,
half of total disbursement occurred during the last year of implementation. The legal reforms lagged far behind the
projected schedule. Since substantial training and institutional building would only make sense after the new
legislations and regulations were promulgated, the delay in legal reforms caused the delay in disbursement.




                                                         - 7 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The main achievement of the project was the three new legislations, the Public Finance Management Act,
the Public Audit Act, and the Public Procurement Act. The consultation process before the laws were
enacted helped establish a greater awareness among stakeholders of the need for accountable financial
management and support for the principles embodied in these legislations. These legislations are unlikely to
be reversed and therefore the ICR rates sustainability as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project has helped establish two main implementing agencies to continue the reforms in auditing and
procurement. The National Audit Office and the Office of Director of Public Procurement are being established at
the time of the ICR. Budget provision for the staffing and minimum operating costs of the two offices have been
proposed and are likely to be catered for under the GoM budget. Norway and Sweden are providing technical
assistance to NAO and may be persuaded to provide additional funding to support the auditing reform. Institutional
and capacity building in procurement reform, however, requires significant funding from donors. At this time,
IDA-financed FIMTAP seems to be the most likely source of funding. FIMTAP is also financing other expenditure
management reform activities, e.g., implementing an Integrated Financial Management Information System.

While IDA continues to support reform in this area, it is critical to work with GOM and other donors to improve
the likelihood of success. The ICR suggests that IDA consider the following changes in the way the PFM reform
agenda is being managed by GoM and supported by donors.

1. Focus on improving transparency in public expenditure management and procurement. Transparency is the
prerequisite for effective external oversight by NAO, Parliament, civil society advocacy groups and media and for
creating a sustainable domestic demand for reform. It is also the best indicator for government commitment.

2. Better prioritize, coordinate and monitor the PFM reform initiatives. Currently, many initiatives (MTEF,
IFMIS, procurement reform, auditing reform, strengthening oversight institutions) are ongoing but coordination is
poor and political oversight is nonexistent. A comprehensive diagnosis of public sector financial management has
been undertaken and documented in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA, Sep 2003). It
includes recommendations on the actions to be taken: 28 actions in the first year, 27 actions in the second and third
years, and 5 actions after the first three years. With a single action often being a substantial program of work on its
own, to implement all the recommendations is clearly an overwhelming task. What is much needed at this time is
for GoM (with donor support) to further prioritize the PFM reform program, identify monitorable outcome level
indicators and establish an explicit linkage between the proposed reform activities and the expected improvement
in PFM outcome indicators. This explicit linkage will enable the oversight body to monitor the progress and also
motivate proactive thinking about how to address a weakness in the system without waiting for the completion of
IFMIS. Project teams working on various work streams need to be organized and managed by a PFM reform
program manager with strong management skills. This applies to the Accountant General's Department in addition
to the two agencies supported by this Project.

3. Improve effectiveness of donor support to PFM reform in the context of a multi-donor budget support
framework. The basis for such a framework has been initiated by the four donors in the Common Approach to
Budget Support -- EU, DfID, Norway, Sweden. There seems to be a strong expectation for proactive engagement of
the World Bank in this process. A multi-donor budgetary support process in other countries has proven to be an
effective way of collectively demanding and supporting the PFM reform agenda and has the potential to propel the
pace of PFM reform in Malawi.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory, due to the poor project design (as explained in the section on



                                                           - 8 -

Quality at Entry). In addition, interviews with the stakeholders during the ICR revealed frustration and resentment
with the Bank imposing a particular solution -- a fully decentralized procurement model and an independent
procurement authority in this case. Failure on the part of the Bank team to thoroughly debate the pros and cons of
the options and obtain real buy-in from the decision-makers meant that the FRDP III adjustment credit might have
enough leverage to seal an agreement from the government at the time, but it was not enough to lead to substantial
buy-in of the proposed radical changes.

7.2 Supervision:
Five staff from three units within the Bank served as TTLs of this project within its three and half years of
duration. As the performance indicators did not reflect the original development objective or the actual intent of
the project components, monitoring project implementation becomes a challenge for the last four TTLs, who were
not involved in the project design. There was an attempt during the second year of implementation to restructure
the project so its performance indicators would be better defined, but the restructuring process did not complete.
The frequent changes of TTLs, across three operational units in the Africa Region, the result is loss of institutional
memory and poor documentation.

To help speed up implementation, there were proactive engagements by TTLs with GoM. To address the impasse
on the issues of a fully decentralized procurement system and an independent procurement authority, intensive
Bank-GoM dialogues took place as part of the CPAR process. The new procurement specialist on the Bank team
demonstrated substantial flexibility and willingness to listen. The Bank provided comprehensive comments on the
draft public procurement bill and the regulations and contributed to significant improvements in the final products.
This process was instrumental in establishing the Bank's credibility and mutual trust between the Bank and the
Government.

On balance supervision is rated as marginally satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. The GoM request for
support in auditing reform and procurement reform was based on a solid diagnosis of the weakness of the system.
The implementation timetable reflected an understanding of a sequence of legal reform, institutional
strengthening, and capacity building activities to be undertaken. But the design did not have a robust
implementation arrangement (see discussion under Quality at Entry), which subsequently contributed to poor
implementation.

Even though after the project was made effective, government officials expressed reservations to the procurement
reform model, such concerns were not expressed in the formal communication to the Bank. In fact, before Board
presentation of the project along with the FRDP III adjustment credit, GoM confirmed the political commitment to
the two major areas of reform supported by the operation. In particular, it was confirmed that a Cabinet meeting on
Apr. 13, 2000 approved the legal and institutional reform measures proposed by the International Procurement
Consultant, including the proposal to fully decentralize procurement responsibilities to ministries, agencies,
departments and local governments. The Cabinet approved the following work program in the area of procurement
reform: a) establishment of an appropriate new legal and institutional framework for public sector procurement
system; b) setting up a central procurement authority; c) re-definition of the role of the Central Tender Board; d)
adoption of the national tender and contract documents for goods, works, medical supplies including equipment,
prequalification services that are based on simplified versions of the documents for international tenders; e)
reorganization of the Government Stores facilities; f) establishment of a formal training program on procurement
and stores management. This in retrospect did not seem to be the case, as for the next two years the Cabinet
remained unconvinced of the proposed model of decentralized procurement and the need for an independent
procurement authority and refused to endorse the draft Procurement Bill. It is difficult to explain this policy
reversal but to attribute to the GoM's desire to present reform packages acceptable to the Bank in order to secure



                                                          - 9 -

funding under the adjustment credit.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoM did not have a dedicated staff for project implementation. Although the DCA specified that "the project shall
be coordinated by the Task Force which has been appointed by the Secretary to the Treasury," this task force never
took up the coordination responsibility. The Secretary to the Treasury assumed responsibility for the project and
assigned individual staff as coordinators for day-to-day project activities and interaction with the Bank team. There
was a high turnover of the project coordinators, resulting in a loss of institutional memory and poor records. The
ICR process experienced difficulties in accessing basic project documents, such as Project Implementation Manual,
Annual Work Plan, Procurement Plan, Financial Management Reports. Overall, there was no explicit project
monitoring and evaluation framework and hence limited oversight of this project.

The project was managed by the Treasury without a transparent process of deciding resource allocation among
beneficiary agencies. Training, in particular, was managed in an ad hoc manner, with many Treasury staff getting
scholarships for long-term training abroad. In contrast, there was limited training for the National Audit Office or
the Accountant General's Department.

The Reserve Bank of Malawi was tasked to perform the accounting function for the project and the performance
was adequate. There was no procurement specialist responsible for the project, despite the suggestion by the Bank
team to engage one.

The overall government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory, as explained above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1. A Technical Assistance project which accompanies an adjustment credit should not be prepared as an
after-thought. It should be properly designed and be subject to the standard quality assurance requirements. It is
particularly important to make an adequate risk assessment and include risk mitigation measures in the project
design. A rigorous design is required to fully exploit the complementarity between an adjustment credit, which sets
realistic and enforceable goals, and a TA operation, which supports the implementation of reform with clear
champions and robust project management arrangement. While it is desirable for a TA operation to provide
flexible funding for analytical work, operational support and training required for successful achievement of reform
goals set under an adjustment credit, it is critical that explicit rules of access to funds are defined in project design.
Otherwise, the TA credit risks becoming a slush fund supporting activities which may or may not be directly linked
to the project objectives.

2. Substituting conditionality for government commitment or weak institutional capacity does not accelerate the
reform process. Sustainable buy-in of a controversial change proposal can only be secured through extensive
debates where all options are explored and the stakeholders are convinced of the relative pros and cons of each
option. A critical appraisal of implementation readiness should be also done by examining whether there is a
robust implementation and oversight mechanism in place, including involving the stakeholders who have a
genuine interest to pursue and sustain reform, putting in place strong technical capacity to manage the reform
process and a rigorous monitoring and evaluation framework. Specifically for accountability reforms, a
government's willingness to be transparent and open to external scrutiny may be the best indicator for political will
for reform.

3. Expectation of the pace of accountability reform should be realistic. In many young democracies in Africa,
where elected leaders struggle to balance competing interests and face constraints in pursuing accountability



                                                           - 10 -

reform, it will not be realistic to expect radical improvement in a short period of time. For example, the recent
procurement reform experience in various African countries (including Malawi) has demonstrated that
procurement reform generally meets strong resistance among political and bureaucratic elites as it reduces their
rent-seeking opportunities. Even with a genuinely committed political leadership, the reform process will involve
balancing many interests and creating a strong alliance. The general lack of technical capacity in procurement that
persists in African countries poses additional challenges to improving the efficiency and accountability of the
procurement system.

4. Continuity of Task Team Leaders and management attention to problem projects is key to success.

5. Financial management reform and procurement reform are often part of an overall public sector reform program
of a country, so effective support to the country requires a Bank team with a broad based multi-sector expertise.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government ICR is attached in Annex 8. It lists the main achievement of the project: the enactment of Public
Finance Management Act, Public Audit Act and the Public Procurement Act; establishment of Medium Term
Wage Policy; preparatory studies for the PRSP; and short-term and long-term training of Government officials. It
pointed out a few factors that affected project implementation: ineffective coordination by MoF and weak
implementation capacity; fragmented government procurement arrangements that caused delays and arrears of
payment from counterpart fund; long IDA procurement procedure; frequent changes of IDA Task Team Leaders.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

None




                                                         - 11 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Hiring of consultants for legal separation  Apr 30, 2001                       Jan 16, 2002
and institutional development

2. Preparation of draft report outlining legal Jul 15, 2001                       Sep 18, 2002
legislation for the two Acts to be drafted by
Law Commissioner/Parliamentary Draftsman
3. Study tour                                  Jun 30, 2001                       Feb 2002; Sep 2003; Mar 2004

4. Stakeholder conference                      Sep 15, 2001

5. Institutional development analysis          Jul 15, 2001                       Nov 7, 2002

6. Report outlining programs that will         Jul 15, 2001                       Not done.
increase capacity of Public Accounts
Committee of the National Assembly (PAC)
and other supporting organs

7. Management Information Systems report       Mar 31, 2002                       Not done.
outlining its design and computer equipment
needed, specifications, advertisement for
tender, receipt of equipment, installation

8. Development of training programs for PAC Sep 30, 2002                          Not done.
and staff of the Auditor General's Department

9. Enact new Public Procurement Act            Aug 2001                           Sep 2003

10. Set up Procurement Authority               Oct 2001                           Ongoing. Director appointed in Feb 2004.
11. Launch first training program after        Jun 2001                           Proposal for National Training Policy for
finalization of plan for Capacity Building                                        Procurement finalized by consultant in Mar
                                                                                  2004. Work remains to be done on a
                                                                                  sequenced and costed Training Plan.
                                                                                  Training of trainers was undertaken in Oct
                                                                                  2003. Some training of Internal Procurement
                                                                                  Committees was provided in Mar 2004.

12. Begin implementation of Stores reform      Dec 2001                           Not done.

See section 4 for discussions on the lack of appropriate outcome indicators in project design.
Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                 Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1. Amend the Finance and Audit Act to                                           Achieved.
separate the two functions (audit and fiscal                                      Public Finance Management Act 2003
management) under a new Finance Act and                                           enacted holding Controlling Officers
a new Audit Act.                                                                  accountable for proper financial
                                                                                  management. In addition, Treasury
                                                                                  Instructions have been prepared and
                                                                                  circulated to all Controlling Officers in Oct
                                                                                  2004. Public Audit Act 2003 enacted.
                                                                                  Auditing function vested in the National Audit
                                                                                  Office.
1.2. Review of existing auditing
methodologies, prepare audit manuals,
develop and test value for money audit
guides.


1.3. Review of the current organizational                                         Achieved.
structure, grades, salary structure, conditions                                   Institutional reform program for National Audit
of service in the SAI.                                                            Office designed and ready for




                                                               - 12 -

                                                                    implementation.


1.4. Review of the current planning structure                       Not achieved.
in the SAI and a management information
system.


1.5. Assess strategic training needs in the                         Not achieved.
SAI and set up a training department.                               Training in progress despite a lack of
                                                                    strategic training needs assessment and a
                                                                    training department within NAO. With the
                                                                    exception of an executive secretary, no NAO
                                                                    staff benefited from training under this
                                                                    project. Independent of this project, NAO did
                                                                    support fourteen officers to attend AAT
                                                                    ACCA courses at various levels at the Malawi
                                                                    College of Accountancy and four officers
                                                                    attended courses in Value for Money Audit.


2.1. New procurement code approved by          Achieved.            2.1. Achieved.
Cabinet and Parliament.                                             New Public Procurement Act 2003 enacted.


2.2. Assist with setting up the new National                        2.2. Partially achieved.
Procurement Authority including staff                               The Office of Director of Public Procurement
appointment and training.                                           established. An institutional development plan
                                                                    for the Office of the Director of Public
                                                                    Procurement (including organizational
                                                                    structure, staffing, job descriptions,
                                                                    conditions of service, training plan) proposed
                                                                    but is yet to be approved and implemented.
                                                                    The Director, Deputy Director, and three
                                                                    senior staff are at post in the Office of the
                                                                    Director of Public Procurement as of Nov
                                                                    2004. Additional recruitment is yet to start.

                                                                    The Project purchased vehicles, computers
                                                                    and other office equipment for OoDPP

                                                                    Treasury authority has been obtained to fill
                                                                    the establishment in OoDPP and recruitment
                                                                    will commence as soon as the terms of
                                                                    conditions are approved by government.


2.3. Prepare the details of stores reform                           Not achieved.
program overseen by the new procurement                             A study on Central Government Stores
authority.                                                          completed. Detailed reform program not
                                                                    prepared.


2.4. Assist with implementation of the new                          i) Not achieved. No progress in rationalizing
procurement process including i)                                    CGS.
reorganizing of the Government Stores,                              ii) Achieved. OoDPP created as the
including definition of the roles of the                            procurement authority.
remaining agencies; ii) redefine the role of                        iii) Not achieved.
CTB and its replacement with the                                    iv) Partially achieved. Staffing requirement for
procurement authority; iii) arranging                               the Special Procurement Units in procuring
documentation and operational manuals; iv)                          entities estimated. A phased training strategy
identifying training needs and designing                            for the procurement cadre developed but is
training programs, and assist in hiring a                           yet to be approved and implemented.
training consultant; v) designing rules and                         Training for some Internal Procurement
regulations as well as policies; vi)                                Committee carried out.
operationalize the system; vii)                                     v) Achieved. Procurement Regulations
computerization of government stores.                               promulgated.
                                                                    vi) Not achieved.
                                                                    vii) Not achieved.


3.1. Analysis of the role of donors in project                      Not achieved.




                                                          - 13 -

selection and the link between the
development budget with the SIPs and
SWAPs. Further work to improve the
implementation of the development budget by
streamlining project execution.


3.2. Survey of service quality and options to                                Not achieved.
improve effectiveness of public expenditures.


3.3. Assessment of leakage in public                                         Done, but not supported by this Project.
expenditures (PETS)


3.4. Studies on targeting of the Starter Pack                                Not done.
Program and the social safety nets.


3.5. Other studies to prepare for the next                                   A Medium-term pay reform strategy was
phase of structural and sector reforms.                                      prepared. A Pay Policy Advisor for GoM was
                                                                             engaged.

                                                                             A tax reform study, which was initiated under
                                                                             FRDP II was completed under FRDP III TA.
                                                                             A surtax was implemented as a result.

                                                                             A consultancy on costing the Malawi Poverty
                                                                             Reduction Strategy was completed.

                                                                             An assessment of food availability and
                                                                             accessibility in Malawi during the 2000/01
                                                                             cropping season was done.

1End of project
In absence of a Project Appraisal Document, the indicators used above were taken from what substituted for the
PAD, i.e., the Annex 2 of the President's Report on FRDP III Adjustment Credit and the TA Credit, as well as the
Minutes of Negotiations.




                                                      - 14 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal         Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                            Component                                   US$ million        US$ million
   Public Finance Management Reform                                          0.40                0.66                  142
   Public Procurement Reform                                                 2.40                0.98                   32
   Other Reform Activities                                                   0.20                0.55                  317

   Total Baseline Cost                                                       3.00                2.19
    Physical Contingencies                                                                                              65
                               Total Project Costs                           3.00                2.19
                       Total Financing Required                              3.00                2.19




  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.44              0.00             0.44
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.41)           (0.00)            (0.41)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.00              0.00             1.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.09)           (0.00)            (1.09)
  4. Training                              0.00               0.00              0.88              0.00             0.88
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.69)           (0.00)            (0.69)
  5. Unallocated                           0.00               0.00              0.68              0.00             0.68
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              3.00              0.00             3.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.19)           (0.00)            (2.19)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, contracted staff services
      for the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Other Reforms                  0.20                                  0.55                               275.0
Auditing                       0.40                                  0.66                               165.0
Procurement Reform             2.26                                  0.98                                43.4
Unallocated                    0.24                                  0.00                                0.0

                                                          - 15 -

- 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count             Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/14/1999 to                  23     1 Sector Manager
               10/19/2000                            9 Economists
                                                     2 FMS
                                                     1 Health Specialist
                                                     1 Agriculture Specialist
                                                     4 Consultants
                                                     2 RAs
                                                     2 ACS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               08/28/2000 to                  14     7 Economists
               12/21/2000                            2 Agricultural Specialists
                                                     1 Procurement Specialist
                                                     1 Financial Specialist
                                                     1 RA
                                                     1 Consultant
                                                     1 ACS

 Supervision
               10/04/2001                       3    Procurement Specialist (2);           S               U
                                                     Sr. Operations Officer (1)
               06/25/2003                       1    Public Sector Management              S               S
                                                     Specialist (1)
               09/26/2003                       1    Team Leader (1)                       S               S
               02/27/2004                       3    Team Leader (1);                      S               S
                                                     Consultant (1);
                                                     Team member (1)

 ICR
               11/14/2004                      1     Senior Economist                      U               U

The TA operation was identified, appraised and negotiated along with the FRDP III Adjustment Credit. All
costs of identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation were combined costs for both operations.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     61.9                           237.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          34.3                           117.4
  Supervision                                       10                          396.0
  ICR                                                3                            15.0
  Total                                         107.2                           665.8
The TA operation was identified, appraised and negotiated along with the FRDP III Adjustment Credit. All
staff time for identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation were combined inputs for both
operations.



                                                     - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. President's Report on the Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program (FRDP III) and the
    Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Technical Assistance Project (FRDP III TA)
    (Nov 27, 2000)
 2. Development Credit Agreement for the Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Technical
    Assistance Project
 3. Minutes of Negotiations
 4. Malawi Public Finance Management Act 2003
 5. Malawi Public Audit Act 2003
 6. Malawi Public Procurement Act 2003
 7. National Audit Office Institutional Strengthening Implementation Final Report (June 2004),
    commissioned by National Audit Office, prepared by Management International, Malawi
 8. Report on the Development of the Office of the Director of Public Procurement (Nov 2003),
    commissioned by the Government Contracting Out Unit in the Office of the President and Cabinet,
    prepared by Deloitte & Touche, Malawi
 9. Formulating a New National Training Policy for Procurement (June 2004), commissioned by the
    Office of the Director of Public Procurement, prepared by PROMPT, Malawi
10. Malawi Country Financial Accountability Assessment (Sep. 15, 2003), World Bank
11. Implementation Completion Report on FRDP III Adjustment Credit (June 2003)
12. World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Malawi (Aug. 1998, May 2003)
13. Malawi Country Procurement Assessment Report (Feb 2004), World Bank
14. Project Status Reports
15. Aide Memoire of Supervision Missions




                                                   - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Government ICR

                               MINISTRY OF FINANCE




                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (MW-PE-50294)


                                      ON A


                                  LOAN/CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION (US$3.0 MILLION) AS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                       TO

                            THE MALAWI GOVERNMENT

                                    FOR THE

THIRD FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                   (FRDP III TA)

                                     November 2004




                                      - 22 -

                                               SUMMARY OF PROJECT DATA


Country:                                       Malawi

Project Name:                                  Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program Technical

                                               Assistance (FRDP III TA Credit)

Loan No.                                       3451-MAI

Borrower:                                      The Government of Malawi

Executing Agency:                              The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning

Date of Appraisal (Neg.):                      November 10, 2000

Date of Approval (Signed):                     January 11, 2001

Date of Com (Initial Dist.):                            May 11, 2001

Date of Project Completion:                    June 30, 2002

Original Closing Date:                         December 31, 2003

Revised Closing Date                           June 30, 2004

1.0.     Introduction

      Soon after 1994, the democratically elected government embarked on a large and complex agenda of policy
reforms and institutional change to uplift the economy from deteriorating due to external shocks and poor
economic management. The government introduced a pro-poor policy reform by eliminating primary school fees.
In addition, the government began to bring the economic situation under control by introducing the cash budget
and flexible exchange rate. Consequently, the fiscal deficit before grant declined from 42 percent of GDP in
1994/95 to 9 percent of GDP in 1996/97. Being satisfied with the prospects of improving macroeconomic
management, the IMF approved the ESAF arrangement in October 1995 and the Bank moved ahead with the
preparation of Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Programs (FRDP) See table 1, for a summary of bank loans
under FRDP..

      In 2000, the Government got a credit of SDR43.1 million from the International Development Association
(IDA) in support of the continuation of structural reform program under the proposed Third Fiscal Restructuring
and Deregulation Program (FRDP III). The FRDP III credit included the Technical Assistance (TA) amounting to
SDR 2.4 million, which was designed to support the implementation of the reforms being carried out under the
FRDP III adjustment credit. The technical assistance focused on a few areas where the policy reforms enacted
under the adjustment operation by building institutions and training. The TA supported activities such as the
preparation of legislation to lay the basis for the next phase of the reform effort.

      The FRDP III TA loan agreement was signed on 11th January 2001. and was scheduled to close on
December 31, 2003. Given the time constraint and the delay in the approval of the procurement code, the entire
amount meant for other activities under the procurement reforms was seen not to be utilized as initially budgeted.
Instead, the Government was advised to revise the budget including resource allocations for other activities in line
with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). In view of this, the closure of the project was extended to June 30,
2004.

1.1.     OBJECTIVES OF FRDP III TA

      The FRDP III TA was designed to strengthen effective management and oversight of public sector
expenditure. More specifically the project aimed at strengthening public sector procurement, strengthen public
sector financial management and preparing the next phase of structural and sectoral reform program. The TA


                                                          - 23 -

credit supported the following activities: consultancies, training, workshops, study tours and conferences and
purchase of office equipment.


2.0.     Project Components

       The project consisted of the following three major components: procurement, financial management, macro
and sectoral reforms.

2.1.     Procurement Reform

       The program involved the legislation of the new public procurement Act. The new law intended to establish
a new procurement code and a new procurement authority, which would decentralize procurement to the
purchasing agencies. The procurement authority would also be responsible for providing training, technical
advisory services and acquisition of new office equipment.

2.2.     Financial Management

       The reforms in this area involved strengthening the financial management framework to ensure that public
funds are used efficiently and for the purpose for which they were intended. In this part public finance and public
audit functions would be separated and new legislation would be enacted. The reform was also concerned with
strengthening the capacity and authority of the Auditor-General's office through training and provision of
technical advisory services.

2.3.     Other Reform Activities

       This involved carrying out further studies to improve public sector management through the provision of
technical advisory services. This part also involved the preparation of the next phase of structural and sectoral
reform program.

3.0.     Achievement of Development Objective and Output

3.1.     Objectives

       The development objective of supporting the Malawi Government to implement the FRDP III TA has been
achieved to some varied degree. Some studies such as `Quantitative Model for Macroeconomic and Poverty
Scenario' and `Costing for Poverty Reduction Strategy' have already filtered out in the preparation of Malawi
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (MPRSP) approved in 2002 by both the Fund and the Bank. Some departments
in particular in the Ministry of Finance, the National Audit Office and the Office of the Public Procurement have
been strengthened through training of staff on short courses and long-term courses. These departments have also
benefited from acquiring office equipment. More important, is the establishment of the new office of the Director
of Public procurement and a new office of the National Audit Office in Zomba.

       As already stated the loan agreement of FRDP III TA was signed on 11th January 2001. According to this
agreement the IDA Credit of US$3.0 million was supposed to be disbursed over three years with an expected
Project Completion date of June 30, 2003 and a closing date of December 31, 2003. Document of the World Bank
report No. P7419 MAI, November 27, 2000 For project cost by components refer to table 2. So far, all the expected
outputs have been achieved except stores downsizing and computerization. However, some of the activities
included after the extension of the project required much time and resources. Some of the activities undertaken
under the project are the enactment of Public Finance Management Act, Public Audit Act and the Public
Procurement Act; establishment of Medium Term Wage Policy; and short-term and long-term training of
Government officials.

3.2      Outputs by Component


                                                        - 24 -

3.2.1.    Public Sector Procurement

       This sub-component has the following outputs: develop the new procurement Act and supporting regulation,
create National Procurement Authority and procurement cadre, implement capacity building program for
procurement cadre, rationalize stores cadre, and introduce computerized stores. Currently, the new Public
Procurement Act has been enacted and new subsidiary legislations have been prepared to operationalise the Act.

       The Government established the office of public procurement and the director was appointed following
provisions in the new Act. Treasury authority has been obtained to fill the establishment positions in the
department and recruitment will commence as soon as Government approves the terms and conditions of services.
There is great need of resources to forge ahead in the operationalisation of this vital office.

       Several consultancies were conducted in the procurement reform. One of the consultancies was the
procurement assessment report (CPAR) which was carried out in conjunction with the Government of Malawi. The
department has moved ahead to prepare a work plan and budget for the implementation of the recommendations in
the CPAR. This is an area that development partners could get together and support the procurement reforms as
led by Government.

       Equipment such as vehicles, computers, furniture and other office equipment for the office have already
been purchased. However, stores downsizing and its computerization has not been implemented because the
exercise requires more than two years to finish. The exercise failed to take place because the enactment of the
procurement code was delayed. It is the Government view to seek further assistance in completing the stores
reforms as initially proposed to promote transparency and accountability in stores utilization (see table 3).

3.2.2.    Public Sector Financial Management

       The strengthening of public sector financial management has three outputs: separation of Finance and Audit
Act into the Public Finance Management and the Public Audit legislation, and the institutional reform program for
National Audit Office. The Public Finance Management Act is in use now and several actions have been carried
out utilizing the FRDP III TA credit. The Treasury Instructions have been prepared and circulated to all
controlling officers in October 2004.

       Under this project, the Ministry of Finance carried out functional review of the ministry to align its
operations with those proposed in the new Act. The exercise was completed in June and the Ministry is reviewing
it further to be in line with the strategic planning of the Ministry. After the extension, the Ministry also benefited
from the office equipment purchased under this technical assistance. However, proposed issues such as the Public
Expenditure Review (PER), support to the MTEF process and short training were not done.

       The National Audit Office is one operating under the new Public Audit Act. The National Audit Office has
also undergone the institutional reform. The reform has recommended for new organizational structure, new
functions, staffing levels and new reporting procedures. The NAO has also opened a new office in Zomba and the
TA credit assisted in furnishing the office to put it in operation (see table 3).

       The three institutions have also benefited from short term courses. Officers have been trained in financial
management, disbursement, expenditure management, procurement and internal controls. Apart from these
short-term courses, other officers have been sent for long-term training pursuing their masters programmes.
However, partial funding for the masters programme has been sourced from FIMTAP project because FRDP III TA
credit closed in June 2004 before the end of the activities and this has been formalized with FIMTAP project.

3.2.3.    Other Reform Activities

       This has involved carrying out of further studies to improve public sector management through the provision
of technical advisory services. On macro and sectoral reforms, the project has also catered for the following studies:


                                                          - 25 -

Quantitative Model for Macroeconomic and Poverty Scenarios; Costing for Poverty Reduction; Food Availability
and Accessibility Assess; Tax Reform Study; and Energy Power Policy Study. The last two were under FRDP II
and completed with some funds from FRDP III.

       The Government also reviewed the medium-term wage policy and a new wage and salary structure has been
implemented starting from October 2004. In this structure, all wages and allowances have been harmonized and
grades have been reduced. During the implementation of the policy, the government contracted a pay policy
adviser under the FRDP III. However, the activities continued after the closure of the project and much work is
needed to carry out the cleaning exercise.

       The Government also carried out the optimization of the size of Government Ministries/Departments and
their functions. The exercise led to the reduction in the number of ministries and departments. More assistance in
terms of resources and technical is needed to continue the streamlining of Government functions to yield optimal
utilization of limited resources in the economy.

       The credit also financed training for Malawian civil servants in poverty measurement and analysis to
support implementation of the PRSP and development of MTEF. Most of these activities prepared government to
enter another credit agreement with the World Bank negotiated early 2004 called FIMAG. (see table 4)

3.3.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

       The project has been significantly affected by factors within and outside the control of government as
follows:

l    The TA credit was supposed to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance under the supervision of the
     Secretary to the Treasury where a Task force guided each aspect of the TA program. However, the
     coordination role changed from hand to hand within the ministry which deterred proper follow ups of issues.
l    All procurements were carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
     Loans and IDA Credits. Procurement of local equipment under the project followed the Government
     procedures through approval by Internal Procurement Committee (IPC) in the Government Contracting- Out
     Unit. However, implementation of the foreign financing and Government contribution was done by Reserve
     Bank of Malawi and the Ministry of Finance respectively. This separation delayed follow ups in the funding of
     the 10 percent Government contribution on the local procurements.
l    The hiring of all consultancies were done after the approval of the World Bank but the procedure is long and
     much delaying.
l    Lack of staff capacity in the implementation of the projects especially the accounting personnel.
l    The delay in the initial disbursement of funds in the year 2001 also affected the implementation of the project.
l    Inadequate and delayed counterpart funding adversely affected the implementation, coordination, monitoring
     and supervision of the project. The delay is due to the current national budgetary constraints.
l    Policy reversals on the side of the Bank regarding no objections affected implementation of the project.

4.0.      Cost and Financing

       The project has performed well within the activities it has executed but some of the activities were not
implemented due to time constraint. Disbursements and withdrawal of funds were subject to the conditions of the
Credit Agreement. Payments for local purchases of office equipment have been settled by both foreign and local
contribution as stipulated in the DCA. However, the Government has not settled all the 10 percent of the total cost
of the local purchase of equipment and this payment will be made as agreed The proposed allocation and actual
expenditure is as indicated in table 2 and 5.

5.0.      Bank's and Borrower Performance

5.1.      The Bank




                                                        - 26 -

       The bank was instrumental in supporting implementation of the FRDP III TA credit. The Bank has assisted
in drawing the logical framework of the project. The Bank also facilitated the monitoring and implementation of
the project. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation task force from various projects under the World Bank has
been established and facilitated by the Bank. The Task force has been reviewing the progress of various projects,
FRDP III TA project inclusive.

       Within this short period, the Bank has mounted supervision missions and several meetings with the Bank's
staff have been held. In these meetings, the Bank has provided guidance on the preparation of progress reports and
advice on the implementation of some activities in the project. Draft Aid- Memoirs have been submitted to the
Government. It is observed that these draft Aid Memoirs should be submitted to Government earlier before
wrap-up meetings for maximum consultations in Government. Besides, there has been frequent changes in Task
Team Leaders for this project which resulted in some interruptions of activities. Hence, although the overall Bank
performance can be rated as fairly satisfactory during preparation, appraisal and implementation, the
aforementioned developments contributed to the cancellation of the big amount under the project as the Borrowers
could not implement all the activities.

5.2.      The Borrower

       The government has carried many reforms since 1994. Some of the programmes effected were:
liberalization, tax reform, the civil service reform, agricultural sector adjustment credit (ASAC), and parastatal.
These programmes were aimed at sensitizing the economy to function according to market forces and to ensure the
active participation of the private sector in the economy. Under the FRDP II, the government set conditions to
improve expenditure monitoring and control. Monitoring reports are being produced at regular basis and being
reviewed by the Cabinet Committee to cross check diversions in the budget. Reforms continued with the FRDP III
TA credit in the area of financial management and procurement reforms. The Government has enacted the Public
Finance Management Act, the Public Audit Act and the Procurement Code. Further, other reforms such as the
wage policy development and streamlining of Government functions have been successfully done. This entails that
Government is highly committed to putting up measures which will stabilize the economy and establish proper
environment good for economic growth and to poverty reduction.

6.0.      Lesson Learnt/Conclusions and Recommendations

l    The project was supposed to be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance and in this case the desk officer or
     project coordinator should be relieved with other government responsibilities to concentrate on the project
     supervision, coordination, monitoring and implementation. On the other hand, the Government should ensure
     that changes in coordination should be minimized.
l    There is need to improve capacity in the project planning and management, specifically with officers
     responsible for coordinating the project.
l    Mechanisms should be put in place to ensure adequate and timely communication between line ministries,
     departments and lending institution for smooth implementation of activities.
l    Oversight ministerial responsibility on the project with a clear mandate and authority, incentive packages such
     as transport, communication and budget from the project funds. Lack of these incentives has contributed
     heavily to the delay in the implementation of some project activities.
l    Administratively, coordination should also been assisted by designated accounts assistant and the procurement
     officer conversant with the World Bank procurement procedures.
l    The project should also be administered by the project unit with all operational costs imbedded in the project
     funds.
l    Lastly but not least, the recent approved credit (FIMAG) should immediately accompany the TA component to
     facilitate the smooth implementation of the policy measures attached to the credit because Government purse
     is limited. This TA component should be designed along the recommendations made in bullets 4,5 and 6
     above.

                                              Table 1: Bank Credit on FRDP

Loan                        Purpose                                           Year of         Status
                                                                              Approval
                                                         - 27 -

First Fiscal             -Structural adjustment                                            Fully
Restructuring and        -Macroeconomic stabilization                                      disbursed,
Deregulation Program     -Medium Term Expenditure                           1996           except TA
(FRDP I)                  Framework (MTEF)                                                 component
                         -Agricultural Marketing Liberalization
                         -Comprehensive civil service reform
Second Fiscal            -Structural adjustment                                            Fully
Restructuring and        -Expenditure prioritization                                       disbursed
Deregulation Program     -Labor market reform
(FRDP II)                -Civil service reform
                         -Continuation of privatization program
                         -Tariff and surtax reforms

FRDP II Technical        -Providing funding for technical                   1998
Assistance Project         assistance
(FRDP II TA)             -Consultancies
                         -Studies
                         -Training to support the FRDP II

Third Fiscal             -Structural adjustment                             2000           Fully
Restructuring and        -Auditing and procurement reform                                  disbursed
Deregulation Program     -Telecom privatization
(FRDP)                   -Banking and agricultural marketing
                           Privatization
                                                                                           Closed on
FRDP III Technical       -Providing funding for technical                   2001           June 30, 2004
Assistance Project         assistance                                                      but funds
(FRDP III TA)            -Consultancies                                                    remained
                         -Studies
                         -Training to support the FRDP III

                           Table 2: Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Components                                                                          Inputs
Public Sector Procurement                                                           US$ 2.40
Public Sector Financial Management                                                  US$ 0.40
Preparing next phase of structural and sectoral reform program                      US$ 0.20
Total                                                                               US$ 3.00

                                     Table 3: FRDP III TA Project Outputs

                     Output                                                 Progress
1. New Procurement Act approved by Parliament         1. Done
and supporting regulations introduced

2. National Procurement Authority and                 2. The Authority was established under the name
Procurement cadre created                             of the Office of the Public procurement. The
                                                      Director has been appointed but the office is yet to
                                                      be staffed
3. Capacity building program for procurement
cadre implemented                                     3. Done




                                                       - 28 -

4. Stores department rationalized and
computerized                                          4. Not Implementation dependent on the
                                                      enactment of procurement code and other activities.
1. Finance Act approved by Parliament                 1. Done

2. Audit Act approved by Parliament                   2. Done

3. Institutional reform program for National Audit 3. Done
Office
1. Training                                           1. Done several training both short and long term
                                                      training

2. Workshops                                          2. Done several stakeholders' consultative meeting

3. Study tour                                         3. Study tours conducted to South Africa, New
                                                      Zealand, Canada and Jamaica



                       Annex Table 4: Studies and Consultancies included in the project

Study                      Purpose                       Status              Impact of study
Power sector policy        Background for                                    Recommendation that
                           privatization of the power    Completed           initial stages of reform
                           sector                        2001                focus on distribution sector
                                                                             and maximizing private
                                                                             investment in new
                                                                             generation and distribution

Financial sector           Background for revision of    Issue paper         Provided overview of
regulatory review          financial sector regulatory   submitted           sector, outlined key issues
                           framework                                         and recommendations for
                                                                             restructuring and
                                                                             privatizing financial
                                                                             institutions
Government of Malawi       Update progress of            Being
consultancy on             contracting out               implemented
contracting out
Budgeting program for      Assistance including
activity costing and       software and training for
prioritization             activity costing related to
                           MTEF
Employment permit          Review recent revisions in                        Recommends
policy                     TEP policies and                                  improvements and
                           recommends                                        clarification of "key posts"
                           improvements                                      and simplification of
                                                                             approval process
Manufacturing sector       Review response of            Proposal already
study                      manufacturing sector to       submitted
                           liberalization program,
                           including extent of
                           de-industrialization shifts



                                                       - 29 -

                            of more competitive
                            activities, including
                            exports, impact of trade
                            agreements and cross
                            border initiatives
Access to industrial        Survey end users to          Completed           Should lead to
land/infrastructure         identify demand and                              reconsideration of policy of
                            supply side constraints on                       subsidized government
                            land, services and factory                       provision of factory shells
                            shells                                           as a major source of
                                                                             industrial buildings.
Quantitative model for      Establish scenarios as an    Completed           Input in the PRSP
macroeconomic and           input to PRSP
poverty scenario
Costing for poverty         Same as above                Completed           In put in the PRSP
reduction strategy
Food availability and
accessibility access
Tax reform study                                         Completed           Input in the introduction of
                                                                             surtax
The procurement reform      Improving public             The code enacted    Contracts issuance
and enacting new Public     procurement                                      following procurement
Procurement Act                                                              regulations
Finance and Audit Act       Improving financial          The Acts have       Government are
                            management by reforming      been enacted        implementing fiscal
                            the auditing and                                 prudence in accordance
                            accounting systems                               with the Acts.
Institutional reform of the Same as above                Done                The National Audit Office
National Audit Office                                                        is establishing the office
                                                                             according to the
                                                                             recommendations
Medium-Term Wage                                         Done                The Government has
Policy                                                                       come up with the new
                                                                             salary structure for all civil
                                                                             servants.
Government                                               Done                Government reduced
Streamlining                                                                 number of ministries and
                                                                             the activity continues




Table 5: Project Cost Allocation and Expenditures in US Dollars

Category       Category Description               Allocation      Amount Paid          Balance
1              Office Equipment                   437,500         254,973.41           182,526.59
2              Consultants' Services              1,000,000       1,029,174.26         (29,174.26)
3              Training, Workshops, Study         875,000         673,686.70           201,313.30
               Tours, Conferences.
4              Unallocated                        687,500                              687,500
Total                                             3,000,000.00    1,957,854.37         1,042,145.63




                                                       - 30 -

- 31 -

