Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3452 MAI
CREDIT NUMBER 3452-1 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  January 11, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3452 MAI
CREDIT NUMBER 3452-1 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
November 16, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Page  2
Credit available in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit 
is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Better Health in Africa Targets” means targets for per capita health 
public expenditures for Africa as defined by the World Health Organization;
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on July 1 and ending on 
Page  3
June 30 of the following year;
(d)
“IDA Reflows” means the amount of the allocation specified in Section 
2.01 of this Agreement and made by the Association for the benefit of the Borrower 
under the Association’s Fiscal Year 2001 allocations of IDA/R00-160 Reflows set forth 
in Resolution IDA of the Association’s Board of Executive Directors;
(e)
“Information Memorandum” means a profile of a public enterprise or 
company to be privatized, the primary purpose of which is to provide interested 
persons with comprehensive, accurate and up-to-date information on said public 
enterprise or company so as to enable the interested party to decide whether or not, 
and on what terms to bid;
(f)
“Initial Financing” means an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,100,000) which 
forms part of the Credit;
(g)
“LDP” means the Letter dated November 16, 2000 referred to in Preamble A 
to this Agreement;
(h)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(i)
“MPTC” means the Malawi Posts and Telecommunications Corporation, 
formerly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(j)
“NFRA” means the Borrower’s National Food Reserve Agency, established 
pursuant to the NFRA Deed (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“NFRA Deed” means the deed dated June 18, 1999 establishing  the NFRA, as 
amended to date;
(l)
“PCC” means the Petroleum Control Commission, established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(m)
“PER” means the Borrower’s ongoing Public Expenditure Review;
(n)
“Reserve  Bank of Malawi” means the Borrower’s central bank;
(o)
“Starter Pack Program” means the program of distribution of free 
agricultural inputs (seeds and fertilizer) to small-holder farmers; and
(p)
“Targeted Input Program” means the program of distribution of free 
agricultural inputs (seeds and fertilizer) to poor rural households.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-three million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 43,500,000), which consists of: (a) an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty-three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 43,100,000) representing the Initial Financing; and (b) an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
400,000) representing the IDA Reflows.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  4
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association; (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2011 and ending October 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2020, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
Page  5
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Reserve Bank of Malawi is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01 The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has issued the Information 
Memorandum for the privatization of Malawi Telecommunications Limited.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 
Lilongwe, Malawi
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANCE
44407 (MI)
265 789173
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Page  7
By /s/ Anthony Kandiero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
Page  8
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association); 
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble
1. Expenditure 
Rationalization
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
on the basis of the ongoing PER, identified priority recurrent 
expenditures and protected their share in total recurrent expenditures in its 
2000/2001 budget, as specified in paragraph 11 of the LDP;
(b)
reduced allocations for boarding in Conventional Secondary Schools from 
16% to 9% and relocated saved money to qualitative inputs, as specified in paragraph 
11 of the LDP; and
(c)
increased allocation for medicinal drugs to approximate Better Health in 
Africa Targets, as specified in paragraph 11 of the LDP.
2.
Development Budget
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
established a detailed project database within MOF, satisfactory to the 
Association, to also include aid-financed projects outside the development budget, as 
Page  9
specified in paragraph 13 of the LDP;
(b)
for the Borrower’s 2000/20001 budget, restricted the entry of new 
projects to high priority sectors on the basis of the project database, as specified 
in paragraph 13 of the LDP; and
(c)
identified a prioritized list of projects, satisfactory to the 
Association, in its FY 2000/2001 development budget, as specified in paragraph 13 of 
the LDP.
3.
Cost Recovery
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
announced a cost recovery policy satisfactory to the Association for 
tertiary education as specified in paragraph 12 of the LDP; and
(b)
introduced a cost recovery policy, satisfactory to the Association, 
including a schedule of prices to be charged for passports, visas, licenses, as 
specified in paragraph 12 of the LDP.
4.
Fiscal Management
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
 issued a circular, satisfactory to the Association, requiring 
Controlling Officers to maintain an up-to-date commitment register, as specified in 
paragraph 14 of the LDP; 
(b)
announced a ten point plan to improve financial management and posted  on 
MOF’s Web site, selected items of the FY 2000/20001 budget, as specified in paragraph 
15 of the LDP;
(c)
commenced quarterly public reporting of: (i) balance sheets, and (ii) 
profit and loss accounts of at least the 5 largest parastatals, as specified in 
paragraph 15 of the LDP;
(d) 
taken the decision to separate its public finance management and public 
audit functions by enacting new legislation as specified in paragraph 16 of the LDP;
(e)
approved and commenced implementation of the recommendations of the Phase 
I study which proposes decentralization of the Borrower’s procurement process, as 
specified in paragraph 19 of the LDP; and
(f)
operationalized the Malawi Revenue Authority as specified in paragraph 20 
of the LDP.
5.
Private Sector Development
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
issued the Information Memorandum for the privatization of the Commercial 
Bank of Malawi as specified in paragraph 24 of the LDP;
(b)
(i) legally completed the separation of the Posts and Telecommunications 
sections of the former MPTC; and (ii) registered 15 internet service providers as 
Page  10
specified in paragraph 23 of the LDP; and
(c)
(i) made private sector imports of petroleum legal; and (ii) limited the 
role of PCC to that of a regulator of petroleum markets, as specified in paragraph 22 
of the LDP.
6.
Safety Net Strategy
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
(i) approved a national safety net strategy, satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) established the institutional framework for the implementation 
of the strategy in accordance with paragraph 26 of the LDP;
(b)
converted the Starter Pack Program into the Targeted Input Program and 
reduced the allocation for it in FY 2000/2001 budget, in accordance with paragraph 28 
of the LDP; and
(c)
(i) taken the decision to limit the maize stocks to be held by the NFRA 
to a maximum of 60,000 metric tons; and (ii) amended the NFRA Deed to restrict the 
NFRA to being a strategic grain reserve, exclusively involved in relief activities, as 
specified in paragraph 29 of the LDP.
