Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16571-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 119.2 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
May 15, 1997
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
US$1.00 =Rs. 35.0
(Projected average for 1996)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACROYMNS
ABER                        Annual Blood Examination Rate
APDR                        Annual Program Development Review
BA                          Beneficiary Assessment
BHC                         bi-hennal-chloricarbidate
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
DALY                        Disability Adjusted Life Year
DDC                         Drug Distribution Center
DDT                         dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane
EA                          Environmental Assessment
FTD                         Fever Treatment Depot
FY                          Fiscal Year
GOI                         Government of India
IEC                         Information, Education and Communication
IDA                         International Development Association
MLF                         Malaria Link Functions
MMN                         Medicated Mosquito Nets
MOHFW                       Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MPW                         Multipurpose Worker
MRC                         Malaria Research Center
NGO                         Non-Governmental Organization
NMP                         Directorate of the National Malaria Eradication Program
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PHCF                        Primary Health Care Facilities
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SPR                         Slide Positivity Rate
WHO                         World Health Organization
Vice President              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director            Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief              Richard Skolnik
Task Manager                Prabhat Jha



INDIA
MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Contents
Page No.
BLOCK  1:    PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ................................................ 2
1.      Project development objectives ................................................                  2
2.       Project components ................................................ 3
3.      Benefits and target population ................................................ 4
4.       Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................ 5
BLOCK 2:          PROJECT RATIONALE ................................................ 6
5.       CAS objectives supported by the project ...............................        ................. 6
6.       Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................  6
7.       Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................7
8.      Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................................... 8
9.       Major related projects financed by the Bank, lessons learned
and reflected in the project design ...................................... 10
10.     Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................  11
11.     Value added of Bank support ......................................  11
BLOCK 3:    SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENT ......................................                                    12
12.     Economic Assessment ...................................... 12
13.     Financial Assessment ...................................... 13
14.     Technical Assessment ...................................... 14
15.     Institutional Assessment ......................................                                 15
16.     Social Assessment ...................................... 17
17.     Environmental Assessment ...................................... 17
18.     Participatory Approach ...................................... 19
19.     Sustainability   ...................................... 20
20.     Critical Risks   ...................................... 20
21.      Possible Controversial Aspects ......................................                          21
BLOCK  4:    MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ......................................                                       21
22       Effectiveness Conditions ......................................                                21
23.      Other             ...................................... 21
BLOCK 5:          COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..................                          .................... 24



Page No.
TABLES
1              Estimates of costs by component ....................................................3
2              Demographic indicators in districts with severe malaria ....................................................4
3              Stakeholder analysis of the enhanced program  .....................                 .............................. 19
4              Level of participation in the enhanced program  by various groups ......................... ............. 19
5              Summary of risks, ratings and minimization measures ...................................................           22
FIGURES
1   Possible scenarios for average annual costs of NMP activities ..............................................9
2  Annual expenditures by the NMP under the Eighth
five year plan ................................................... 13
3    Epidemiological profile of malaria in India, 1961-1994 ...................................................     16
ANNEXES
i   IDA Credit Design Summary
2A     Detailed Project Description
2B     National Policy Letter and Revised Insecticide Guidelines
3      Estimated Project Costs
4    Economic Assessment
5    Financial Summary
6    Procurement Arrangements
7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
8      Documents in the Project File
9      Statement of Loans and Credits
10     India at a Glance



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Country Department II
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
India
Malaria Control Project
Date: May 15, 1997                                                                                      a     Draft                 s     Final
Task Manager: Prabhat Jha                                              Country Manager: Robert S. Drysdale
ProjectiD: IN-PA-10511                                                 Sector: Health
Lending Instrument: Credit                                             PTI:                0       Yes                    Q        No
Project Financing Data                      O     Loan            0      Credit                  Q     Guarantee                      O   Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): 164.8
Proposed Terms:                                C       To be defined                      Q      Single currency
Grace period (years):    10                   ED      Standard Variable                  a      Fixed                               C]    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    35
Commitment fee:   0.50%
Service charge:    0.75%
................~~~............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                              Local                      Foreign             Taxes                  Total
GOI                                                28.7                          0                 10.3                 39.0
IDA                                               114.6                        50.2                 0.0                164.8
Boffower: India, acting by its President
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: MOHFW and NMP
Estimated disbursements (Bank                        1998                1999                  2000                 2001                 2002              2003
FY/US$M):
Annual          12.6                28.1                   41.9                 38.7                  31.3             12.2
Cumulative           12.6                40.7                   82.6                121.3                152.6            164.8
For Guarantees:                                              z   Partial Credit                     z   Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
.................... ............................................................................................................................_
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
....................................................................................... _.................................................................................................................I.........
Financing available without guarantee?:                           C        Yes                                 Q        No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1997                                            Closing date: September 30, 2002






Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 2
Country: India                                                           Project Title: Malaria Control
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.     Project development goals and objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
Malaria, a parasitic disease transmitted by certain mosquitoes, causes substantial death, morbidity and
social and economic losses in India, especially among the rural poor. The Directorate of the National
Malaria Eradication Program (NMP) estimates that there were nearly three million reported cases of
malaria and more than one thousand related deaths in 1995. These estimates are likely to understate
actual figures.' Malaria is mobile and localized: it varies with temperature and precipitation, the level of
immunity in the human population, the degree of in-migration from other communities, vector density,
and social, economic and cultural factors. Malaria is a disease most common to the rural poor, especially
tribal and indigenous peoples.
The medium-term objective of the International Development Association (IDA) credit is to help India
create an enhanced and more effective malaria control program (hereafter "enhanced program") that uses
a better mix of effective malaria control interventions responsive to local needs; and strengthens NMP
and modifies its orientation. The long-term objective is to reduce death, morbidity and social and
economic losses from malaria.
First, the enhanced program would represent a better mix of effective malaria control interventions
by: (a) adopting a malaria control strategy currently recognized as optimal2; (b) shifting the focus from
vector control of the mosquito to prevention and treatment of human cases; (c) reducing reliance on
indoor residual spraying, the success of which has diminished recently; and (d) using multiple
interventions at local levels. Key benchmarks would be total spending on the mix of interventions,
coverage with infonnation, education and communication (IEC) messages, and degree of adherence to
up-front policy commitments from Government of India (GOI) to IDA (the National Policy Letter and
the Revised Insecticide Guidelines; attached in Annex 2B).
Second, the NMP will be strengthened and its orientation modified at all levels. Nationally, technical
leadership, supervision, evaluation and financing of malaria control will be strengthened. Districts will
assume more responsibility for local malaria control by using newly developed guidelines for district
implementation plans. States will strengthen supervision and training functions. In the past, NMP used
military-command approaches to eradicate mosquitoes and dealt only minimally with the human
environment of malaria. The enhanced program will emphasize community involvement and ownership
of malaria control. The key benchmark will be the success of the district implementation plans.
Third, the enhanced program should help to reduce death, morbidity and social and economic losses from
malaria in the long term. Key benchmarks will be the reduction in malaria cases and the stabilization of
fatal malaria.
To enable a flexible enhanced program that can deliver effective malaria control, the IDA Credit relies
on: (a) the up-front policy commitments; (b) a detailed project implementation plan (PIP); and (c) a
focus on structured and regular evaluation (the annual program development reviews).
IThe Global Burden of Disease estimates for India (Murray and Lopez, 1996) report about 26,000 deaths in 1990 from malaria
(i.e., 0.3% of all deaths and 1.0% of deaths due to infectious and parasitic diseases). Malaria was responsible for the loss of
about 1.2 million disability adjusted life years (DALYs) in 1990 (i.e., 0.4% of all DALYs lost and 1.4 % of DALYs lost due to
infectious and parasitic diseases). These estimates are indirect, and may under- or over-estimate the true burden.
The World Declaration on the Control of Malaria (1992); Indian Prime Minister's Expert Committee on Malaria (1995); and
WHO Revised Malaria Control Strategy (1995).



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 3
Country: India                                                        Project Title: Malaria Control
2.     Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
IDA will finance eighty-five percent, net of taxes, of the incremental requirement of the enhanced
program of the NMP over five years. The NMP will oversee investments throughout the country, based
upon local needs and the guidelines for district implementation plans, starting in certain rural districts
with high malaria burdens. The project will include five components (Table 1):
Table 1. Estimates of costs by component
Component                           Cost including      Percent of total
contingencies (USSA':)
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment              44.7                 22
Selective Vector Control                                     81.2                 40
Medicated Mosquito Net Program                               23.4                 11
Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration             19.5                1 0
Institutional Strengthening                                  35.1                 17
TOTAL                                                       203.9                100
(a)    The integrated early detection and prompt treatment of clinical cases component will
improve the quality and accessibility of malaria treatment at primary health units, and in the private
sector improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis of malaria cases, and the treatment of severe malaria.
IDA will finance drugs, laboratory supplies and equipment, training and incremental salaries.
(b)    The selective vector control component will replace widespread indoor residual spraying with
more targeted spraying of insecticides determined by epidemiological stratification by village, increase
the use of non-insecticide vector control methods, such as larvivorous fish and biolarvicides, and shift
the selection of insecticides towards more environmentally neutral options. IDA will finance selected
insecticides, vehicles, equipment, training, consultant services, and operational research.
(c)    The medicated mosquito net program component will carefully increase the use of medicated
mosquito nets through grassroots organizations, social marketing groups, and public distribution, including
local production and distribution. IDA will finance medicated mosquito nets, insecticides, Non-
Governmental Organization (NGO) services, and operational research.
(d)    The epidemic response and intersectoral collaboration component will strengthen regional
offices to identify and control outbreaks and epidemics, monitor resistance, build intersectoral
collaboration among national ministries, identify malaria sources from industrial construction or
projects, conduct health assessment studies and provide training and malaria control guidelines to
industries. IDA will finance insecticides, vehicles, equipment, surveillance, research, and training.
(e)    The institutional strengthening component will improve management and planning skills of
state and district level staff, provide training in new skills such as social assessment, create and
disseminate an information, education and communication (IEC) program, support high-quality
operational research, prepare future project components and improve management and information
systems. IDA will finance civil works, vehicles, a management information system (MIS), and a
geographic information system, IEC, training, research studies, and incremental salaries.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 4
Country: India                                                              Project Title: Malaria Control
3.     Benefits and target population.
The direct target population is the more than two-hundred million people living in areas endemic for
malaria, especially sixty-two million people living in rural areas with severe malaria. The enhanced
program will directly benefit tribal and indigenous peoples. However, the human, economic,
environmental and institutional benefits will accrue to India's entire population of nine-hundred and
thirty million.3 Specific benefits include the following:
First, in the long term, the enhanced program will reduce deaths and morbidity caused by malaria.
Early in the enhanced program better surveillance and increased public attention may lead to a rise in
reported malaria cases, but death and morbidity rates and the percentage of severe cases of malaria
should decline by the fifth year. Because malaria is expected to remain a major burden, and the success
of the enhanced program depends on many variables, the enhanced program does not set specific targets.
In India and elsewhere, eradication of malaria is no longer technically possible; emphasis has thus
shifted to control. In recognition of this, the NMP will remove eradication from its directorate name.
Second, the enhanced program will increase equity, especially for the rural poor. Malaria is most
prevalent in rural areas where most tribal peoples reside, and occurs during seasons in which demand for
agricultural work is at its peak. Malaria imposes an especially heavy burden on women who provide
most of the household care and also contribute to agricultural work. Pregnant and lactating women are
especially susceptible to malaria due to lower immunity.4 Districts with the severe form of malaria are
more likely to be rural, have lower literacy rates, and a higher proportion of scheduled tribe populations
and women (Table 2). The enhanced program should lead to higher absolute benefits for the rural poor,
even if relative benefits are equal for poor and non-poor populations.
Table 2. Demographic indicators (in percent) in districts with severe malaria5 and other districts
Districts with severe     Other districts       Significance test
malaria
Scheduled tribe                     25                        4                     <0.001
Rural                               77                       74                     <0.001 
Female                              49                       48                     <0.001
Literate                            39                       44                     <0.05
Third, the enhanced program will save money for households, especially poor households. Out-of-
pocket spending on malaria treatment is common in India and imposes a heavier burden on the poor than
the rich: a recent survey comparing the proportion of household income spent on each episode of
communicable disease, including malaria, by poor (annual household income below $500) and rich
(annual household income above $1500) households found that poor households spent twice as much as
rich households.
Fourth, the enhanced program will provide some opportunities for grassroots enterprises by
supporting women's cooperatives and NGOs that engage in the production, sale, and distribution of
medicated mosquito nets. Local production and distribution will increase awareness and use of these
3There are two major types of malaria in India, P. falciparum which may cause severe cerebral malaria and death and is more
prevalent in rural areas, and P. Vivax, which causes uncomplicated malaria.
In endemic districts in Orissa, six percent of pregnant women and eight percent of pre-school children suffer from malaria at
any one point in time.
5Based upon the 1991 census data. Although the enhanced program has identified 97 districts dominated by severe P.
falciparum, the above table refers to only 72 districts. The remainder have other names in the census, but similar malaria
patterns. The statistical significance test is based upon a t-test comparison.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 5
Country: India                                                     Project Title: Malaria Control
nets, and provide economic opportunity for the poor. Mass use of medicated mosquito nets is new to
India, and the NMP will carefully monitor their use, acceptability, and success during implementation,
and ensure cost recovery from those able to pay.
Fifth, the enhanced program will reduce unnecessary environmental contamination by reducing
indoor residual spraying and shifting to more environmentally neutral insecticides. Although insecticide
use for malaria control constitutes only about nine percent of insecticides used in agriculture, the
enhanced program will help to eliminate some harmful insecticides and increase the export potential of
agricultural goods (see Environmental and Economic Assessments). The enhanced program will also
improve satisfaction of households, that are increasingly averse to indoor residual spraying.
Sixth, the enhanced program will prepare the NMP for the future. A stronger NMP, a better mix of
effective malaria control interventions, and better information systems will allow GOI to respond more
effectively to malaria both now and in the future. Better insecticide and drug policies and monitoring of
resistance should help avoid the widespread transition to the severe resistant form of malaria common in
Southeast Asia. If the resistant form of malaria does develop, however, a stronger NMP will be in place
to respond. A strengthened NMP will more effectively deliver promising interventions, such as new
malaria control drugs and vaccines currently in development.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The IDA Credit builds on the existing institutional arrangements of the NMP, which has substantial
experience in malaria control, but has less experience with use of multiple interventions and community-
based approaches. The implementation period for the project will be from 1997 to 2002. The NMP
will be the key executing agency and will: (a) provide several inputs, such as insecticides, vehicles, and
drugs to all levels engaged in malaria control; (b) strengthen state-level functions in training and
monitoring; (c) modify the NMP's regional offices into epidemic response units which will provide
additional monitoring; and (d) work directly with districts in creating district implementation plans. The
NMP will provide revolving funds to districts with completed district implementation plans and
satisfactory accounting, financial, and audit arrangements. The NMP and the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare (MOHFW) will be responsible for project coordination. The management of the
enhanced program will be integrated into the overall management structure at the NMP, and will provide
IDA with technical, financial and performance data needed for review. Project oversight will by done
by NMP and MOHFW and the annual program development review, described below.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The GOI and NMP will follow IDA
guidelines on financial control and reporting. The NMP will ensure that all accounts, financial
statements, and audits meet IDA guidelines, and will provide IDA with these documents every six
months. The NMP will also ensure that each state or district that receives funds from the IDA Credit has
accounting and audit arrangements satisfactory to IDA.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements and annual program development review: The NMP and
IDA have agreed on a set of key performance and monitoring indicators (Annex 1):
(a)    Routine data will be collected by the NMP from all districts every month.
(b)    State malaria control officers will submit every quarter key monitoring and performance
indicators in their regions to NMP, and one staff at NMP will be assigned responsibility for each of the
agreed set of key indicators.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 6
Country: India                                                         Project Title: Malaria Control
(c)    An independent external agency will review NMP management administrative functions in the
second or third year of implementation.
(d)    The NMP will also receive qualitative feedback from local malaria societies and from informal
consultations with Panchayat Raj Institutions (or village councils).
The annual program development review permits regular, partial, third-party expert review of the
enhanced program; Annex I provides its detailed terms of reference. The committee will comprise six
members plus a chairperson. Members will include two experts from outside India, one member drawn
from the community, and three members will represent the Malaria Research Center (MRC), the
National Institute for Communicable Diseases and NMP. All members will be experts in malaria control
and community-based disease control. The annual program development review will evaluate the overall
performance of the enhanced program and advise on performance and monitoring goals. The annual
program development review will issue a report that will be available to the public, but the
recommendations of the report will not be binding on the GOI or IDA.
IDA will also monitor the enhanced program by conducting: (a) a separate review of adherence to the
National Policy Letter and Revised Insecticide Guidelines; (b) an evaluation of the revised operational
guidelines that will be published in the second year of the Credit; the revised operational procedures
drawn upon the PIP, guidelines for district implementation plans, and key inputs, such as social and
environmental assessments; (c) a desk review of the status of malaria control activities in two to five
percent of all districts; and (d) spot visits to certain districts implementing the enhanced program.
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE
5.     CAS objective (s) supported by the project:
The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India (August 15, 1995 update Report
No. R96-154/1) seeks to support the efforts of the Government of India in promoting economic growth
through strong private sector involvement and the development of human capital resources. The
progress report on the CAS (discussed by the Board on September 5, 1996) reaffirms this approach and
puts special emphasis on improving the cost-effectiveness of social programs. The Bank's assistance
strategy for the health sector in India is consistent with the CAS and is being implemented through a
two-pronged approach that aims to: (a) reduce the burden of disease of major diseases by supporting
cost-effective priority programs; and (b) strengthen state health systems and promote state health sector
reform to provide more efficient and effective health care, particularly for the poor. The proposed
project is an integral part of the CAS and IDA's health strategy for India.
6.     Main sector issues and Government strategy;
Substantive, institutional and financial issues for the health sector and the GOI strategy are several.6
Substantive issues include the fact that human development indicators in India are low, a large
percentage of the rural poor are affected by communicable and maternal diseases, and access to quality
health services and primary education is poor. Despite being less than one fifth of the global population,
6 This section draws upon: (1) India: New Directions in Health Sector Development at the State Level: An Operational
Perspective Report 15753-IN, 1996; (2) India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening Primary Health Care Services;
Report No 13042-IN; (3) Operational Issues in Malaria Control: Report of a Working Meeting of the WHO and World Bank,
1995; (4) World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health; (5) VP Sharma. Community Participation in Malaria Control,
MRC, 1991; (6) RS Sharma et al, Epidemiology and Control of Malaria in India, 1996; (7) Institute of Medicine, Malaria:
Obstacles and Opportunities, National Academy Press, Washington, DC 1991



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 7
Country: India                                                        Project Title: Malaria Control
India accounts for twenty-one percent of global DALYs, a quarter of global maternal deaths, and a
quarter of global deaths in children under age five. The under-five mortality rate in India is twenty-one
percent, and the probability of death between age fifteen and sixty is thirty-one percent. In contrast, the
under-five mortality rate is four percent in Sri Lanka and the probability of death between age fifteen and
sixty is eighteen percent.
The GOI's substantive strategy involves continuing to focus on key endemic diseases, especially those
strongly associated with poverty. The GOI has modernized paradigms for several disease control
programs, such as adopting directly observed therapy for tuberculosis and dropping fertility targets.
Much more technical and managerial improvement of programs is required, however.
Institutional issues include inefficient public sector delivery of social services; India has complex
organizational structures that impede reform, and public facilities often lack adequate management and
trained staff.
The GOI's institutional strategy largely involves strengthening specific centrally sponsored programs
and upgrading primary health centers facilities (PHCF) and first-referral hospitals at the state level. The
GOI is experimenting with devolution of financial and administrative powers to local village councils as
a means of increasing local ownership.
Financial issues include low levels of spending on public health, especially preventive care. India
spends six percent of its gross domestic product (GDP) on health care (equal to thirteen dollars per capita
in 1990) more than that of Nepal, Bangladesh, China and Sri Lanka. The percentage of public health
spending on primary care (0.6 percent of GDP or approximately one dollar per capita) is lower than in
any of these countries, however. States spend nearly three-quarters of all public funds, but spending in
poor states is low in absolute amounts. Eighty percent of all health spending is done by the private sector
mainly as regressive and often cost-ineffective, out-of-pocket spending on curative services.
The GOI's financial strategy involves prioritizing public spending toward primary health care that
benefits households by gradually decreasing spending on tertiary care services and increasing spending
on cost-effective priority programs. The GOI has begun limited work with the private sector by
contracting out certain hospital services and engaging private groups and NGOs in IEC and mass
marketing campaigns (as in IDA-financed Cataract Blindness Control and Tuberculosis Control
Projects).
7.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The enhanced program for malaria control addresses these sector issues in several ways. On a
substantive level, the enhanced program provides a cost-effective set of interventions to control malaria
with the greatest benefit accruing to the rural poor. These interventions include preventive activities
such as IEC about household environmental management and reduction of water sources, vector control
to reduce malaria sources, and treatment with simple medications.
On an institutional level, the enhanced program improves malaria control at all levels by strengthening
the NMP's technical leadership, policy direction, supervision, and evaluation functions. The enhanced
program will encourage local ownership of some of the activities through village councils and by
increased involvement of NGOs. A strengthened NMP will supplement other central programs
supported by IDA financing, such as the National AIDS Control Organization, the Leprosy Elimination
Program, the Tuberculosis Control Program, and the Family Welfare Program.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 8
Country: India                                                        Project Title: Malaria Control
On a financial level the GOI has recently increased budgets to the NMP, but spending remains lower
than in other countries. The enhanced program will increase total spending on malaria from about eleven
cents per capita in 1994 to fifteen cents per capita in 1998. Per capita public spending would remain
lower than in other countries with comparable malaria risks, such as Sri Lanka (forty cents), Thailand
(thirty-eight cents), Venezuela (twenty-five cents), and Cambodia (twenty cents). Although private
provision of malaria services is limited by the large public goods nature of the service and by low
individual willingness to pay, the enhanced program will involve private practitioners, engage NGOs and
grassroots organizations in small-scale local social marketing efforts, and inform private industries,
especially large infrastructure projects, about source reduction and adequate treatment.
8.     Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The major alternatives to the enhanced program are to: (a) retain the current program; (b) expand the
current program; (b) provide no incremental resources but shift spending toward the mix of interventions
proposed under the enhanced program; (d) confine the IDA Credit to areas in which malaria is most
endemic; or (e) decentralize malaria control using 'horizontal' primary health care approaches.
The first alternative, retaining the current program, was rejected because program effectiveness
will continue to worsen in the absence of changes. Despite increased spending on malaria control, the
number of malaria cases and malaria-related deaths reported to NMP has risen over the last decade (see
Figures 1 to 3). At present, the NMP focuses largely on indoor residual spraying and case detection and
treatment. The declining effectiveness of these two approaches is a result of vector resistance, poor
operational coverage and beneficiary compliance with indoor residual spraying, delays in laboratory
diagnosis of malaria cases, resistance to drug treatment, lack of an organized system for treatment of
severe or complicated cases, and ineffective distribution of malaria control drugs. Further declines in
program effectiveness can be expected unless changes in spending patterns are made. A diversified
approach makes sense because of diminishing returns from any one intervention. The cost of vector
control activities, for example, will rise with expansion as a result of decreasing population and vector
densities. The costs of active case detection and treatment will also rise as the frequency of cases falls.
The second alternative, expanding the current program, was rejected because it would lead to an
ineffective and unsustainable program. Intensification of current activities, which are dominated by
indoor residual spraying, is an undesirable alternative because of the rising cost and declining
effectiveness of insecticides, the limited sustainability of such an approach, and the detrimental
environmental consequences. The NMP cites three factors limiting the effectiveness of indoor residual
spraying: (a) poor operational coverage; (b) inability of states to increase the wages of spraying staff
(resulting in reduced provider compliance and poor coverage); and (c) development of vector resistance.
Effective insecticides are expensive and the operational costs of spraying are high. An intensification of
indoor residual spraying under IDA financing would thus be difficult for GOI to sustain beyond the
period of financing. Even if the NMP shifted towards newer, more environmentally neutral insecticides,
widespread use would be costly. Moreover, widespread use could induce mass resistance to which there
would be no adequate remedy. Finally, all insecticides affect non-target organisms to some extent,
disturbing the ecosystem. It is thus desirable to use insecticides judiciously for vector control, and to
limit unnecessary release into the environment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 9
Country: India                                                                    Project Title: Malaria Control
Figure 1. Average annual costs of NMP activities at present under the enhanced
program if more of the same activities were carried out, and if current spending were
restructured as envisioned under the enhanced program.
3,000
2%
5%            2%
2,500                         6%
40/o    22%
2,0004-%
22%
l  Epidemic Response &    X
Intersectoral Collaboration
1,500 l-                      4%                               l Medicated Mosquito Nets
2%                                       5%
2%                                       6
4%   [QIEC
|22%  |7;0/o                                            E
1,000 l5%                                          |              Institutional Strengthening
69%      ~~~~220%
%                         ;;4%         E Integrated Early Detection &
Treatment
500                                                           i Larvicidal Activities     I
* Indoor Residual Spraying
At Present    Enhanced       More of      Restucture
Program        Same         Current
Spending
Cost (millions of 1996 Rs.)
The third alternative, maintaining the current level of spending, but shifting spending toward the
mix of interventions proposed under the enhanced program, was rejected because political
concerns and institutional inertia prevent significant restructuring of current spending. A gradual
shift of current NMP spending toward a better mix of cost-effective interventions would help improve
malaria control in India. However, political concerns and institutional inertia tend to prevent
diversification from indoor residual spraying. Although decreasingly effective, indoor residual spraying
is a highly visible GOI activity demanded by many politicians at all levels. In addition, many malaria
officers were trained during the eradication era and believe that malaria control demands more
insecticide and drug use. Despite growing dissatisfaction with household spraying, many Indians equate
malaria control with annual visits from spray teams. Finally, concern over loss of jobs at Hindustan
Insecticides, a GOI-owned enterprise and the sole domestic producer of DDT, contributes to GOI's



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 10
Country: India                                                       Project Title: Malaria Control
7
reluctance to decrease insecticide use. In the absence of the IDA Credit, it is unlikely that current
spending would be restructured.
The fourth alternative, confining the IDA Credit to geographic areas in which malaria is most
endemic, was rejected because malaria is mobile. The enhanced set of interventions could be piloted
in certain geographic regions and then expanded to the rest of the country. Although malaria is more
endemic in certain geographic zones, outbreaks can occur in even the unlikeliest of areas. The incidence
and location of malaria cases depends on many dynamic factors, and problem areas can vary from one
malaria season to the next.
The fifth alternative, decentralizing "horizontal" primary health care, was rejected because
malaria requires a categorical program with functions and capacities at the national level. As an
alternative to the enhanced program, the IDA Credit could be used to decentralize the management and
delivery of malaria control, putting responsibility in the hands of primary health care staff. Experience
from other countries warrants caution in decentralization, however. "Through decentralization, strong
malaria control programs have, in many countries, lost their key distinguishing features: their unity of
purpose, dedicated staff, commitment to getting results in the field, and ability to adapt to changing
epidemiological conditions on the ground. The key is not to decentralize everything, as some national-
level functions and capacities are essential. These functions include (but are not limited to) such
important aspects as: (a) providing strategic direction; (b) policy-making and resource allocation at the
national level; (c) providing oversight over decentralized and devolved functions; (d) setting standards,
norms and indicators for monitoring operational activities; (e) providing technical back-stopping of
operational levels; and (f) evaluating and validating program activities including operational research
undertaken at or by the operational levels."g
9.     Major related projects financed by the Bank, lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Global eradication of malaria will not be possible in the next few decades, but control through a better
mix of effective malaria control interventions is possible. The World Bank has financed and completed
two malaria control projects in Brazil and a smaller project in Indonesia and is financing on-going
projects and in Cambodia, Laos, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Venezuela and Vietnam. Other agencies have
financed projects in El Salvador and Mexico (see Table 3 in Annex 4). The Bank's first project in Brazil
failed to reduce malaria because of strict reliance on DDT spraying and drug distribution, and inadequate
planning for the large number of migrants into the project area. In contrast, the Bank's second project in
Brazil reduced deaths from malaria by fifty percent and saved nearly nine million DALYs between 1988
and 1996. Conditions in Brazil before the second project began closely resemble conditions in India
today. Projects in Indonesia and El Salvador reduced malaria burdens significantly.
The enhanced program incorporates several key elements from these projects including: (a) the use of
information-based planning of malaria control; (b) flexibility to respond to local conditions; (c) the use
of complementary interventions, such as vector control, better treatment and medicated mosquito nets to
minimize the risk of failure and diminishing returns associated with a single intervention; and
(d) strengthening capacities of staff in planning and management, including administrative continuity.
Lessons from other World Bank projects in India: The IDA Credit will make use of two lessons from
the Bank's experience in the social sectors in India by: (a) building efforts for high borrower
7Hindustan Insecticides created in response to the NMP's demand for insecticides, employs more than 2,500 people. In
1992/93 the company earned Rs. 4 million; in 1993/94 profits were Rs. 20 million.
8 Operational Issues in Malaria Control: Report of a Working Meeting of the WHO and World Bank (1995).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 11
Country: India                                                        Project Title: Malaria Control
commitment and ownership of projects; and (b) using IDA financing to accelerate a shift of paradigms
away from strict public sector-based activities and inefficient approaches. The Leprosy Elimination
Project, for example, shifted control toward multiple-therapies and better access to care resulting in
leprosy cases declining by two-thirds in four years.
Indicators of readiness to implement the IDA Credit: The NMP shows evidence of technical and
managerial readiness to implement the IDA Credit. Indicators of technical readiness include the fact
that NMP has already: (a) created expert committees to revise insecticide guidelines, examine the
implementation of medicated mosquito nets, and advise on new information systems; (b) created
guidelines for district implementation plans; (c) held detailed planning workshops in four districts in four
states; (d) registered several district malaria societies; (e) spent funds on medicated mosquito nets in
several states; (f) started diversifying methods of vector control; (g) created detailed plans for training
and for IEC; and (h) joined a research project in Gujarat that evaluates various interventions and will
train NMP staff in epidemiology and management. Indicators of managerial readiness include the fact
that NMP has already: (a) created tender documents for major first year purchases; (b) created detailed
procurement plans, including requests for services of competent procurement specialists; (c) installed a
management, budgeting and accounting system; and (d) identified staff for project management for the
first two years of the enhanced program. In addition, the NMP's PIP outlines implementation barriers
and uses realistic procurement schedules.
10.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Although political commitment to malaria control is high, political ownership of the enhanced program
is weak. Major malaria outbreaks in Rajasthan and in some urban settings have created much concern in
Parliament and in the MOHFW. Parliamentary committees have called on several MOHFW and NMP
officials to appear before them, and both NGOs and the media have criticized GOI's malaria control
efforts.9 Politicians' appeals for more indoor residual spraying have increased spending on the NMP
(Figure 2), but the rising cost of insecticides has consumed most of this increase. In contrast to the low
level of political support, the level of commitment to and ownership by the NMP is high, as shown by its
technical and managerial readiness, and revised policies including phasing out of BHC.
11.    Value added of Bank support:
IDA investment in the enhanced program is justified on following grounds: (a) the enhanced program
supports IDA's objectives of improving access of the poor to essential health services; (b) the IDA Credit
will help convert the high level of political concern about malaria into support for an enhanced, cost-
effective, and sustainable control program; (c) IDA financing would help shift the balance of
interventions away from insecticide spraying; (d) IDA brings experiences from other countries, such as
Brazil, to assist India in modernizing technical paradigms for malaria control; (e) IDA has provided
substantial input to improve the community focus of the enhanced program, including sponsoring social
participation workshops in pilot districts; and (e) no other donor has the capacity to assist in these areas
on the scale needed to control malaria in India. Partially as a result of GOI-Bank dialogue, a harmful
insecticide (BHC) was banned from use or production on April 1, 1997. On-going GOI-Bank dialogue
should help reduce further spraying of most other insecticides.
9Makodi, K. "Political and Economic Roots of Disease: Malaria in Rajasthan." Economic and Political Weekly, pp. 42-47,
January 27, 1995; Kaul, S. "New Malaria Action Plan: Panic Response", Economic and Political Weekly, pp. 2172-2173,
September 2, 1995.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 12
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS (Detailed assessments are in the project file.
See Annex 8)
12.    Economic Assessment (see Annex 4).
A projected rate of return for this project was not calculated, due both to a paucity of India specific cost-
consequence data and to the fact that the cost per unit output of malaria interventions varies
tremendously with time and location (even within a country), making it difficult to quantify the impact of
control activities. The major economic gains from malaria control are likely to be substantial, however.
Economic gains include the following:
(a)    Reductions in death and morbidity, which constitute the major cost of malaria. Most cases of
malaria occur during the productive middle ages: over ninety percent of DALYs lost are among people
aged forty-four years or less.
(b)    Increases in production and household earnings by reducing the incidence of malaria,
particularly during peak agricultural seasons and among poor agricultural workers. Estimates suggest
that the average episode of malaria causes seven days of lost work, and that families with malaria clear
sixty percent less land than families without malaria.
(c)    Reductions in household and community expenditures on malaria drugs and treatment, especially
among the poor. As noted in Section 3, out-of-pocket expenditures on malaria treatment represent a
higher percentage of annual household income among poorer households.
(d)    Reduction in environmental pollution from spraying and improvement in India's ability to export
agricultural goods, which are banned in some countries because traces of DDT have been reported in
vegetables, fruits, and other agricultural products.
Public sector involvement in malaria control is justified because: (a' -iblicly financed investment in
the health of the poor can reduce poverty or alleviate its consequences; and (b) malaria control promotes
many public goods and has broad positive externalities, implying that private markets would not produce
them at all or would produce very little.
The economic justification for the whole program and for particular interventions is based mostly
on their cost-effectiveness. Partly due to great variability with focal conditions, cost-consequence data
on malaria are limited. The IDA Credit is likely to be cost-effective, given that a similar Bank-financed
malaria control project in Brazil cost about $250 per DALY saved, and the fact that India and Brazil are
comparable in epidemiological and program features. Moreover, through diversification, the enhanced
program avoids the diminishing cost-effectiveness of any one intervention, a trait of current NMP
activities. The individual interventions in the enhanced program are highly cost-effective and would be
included in any essential package of publicly financed preventive and curative services.
Each component in the enhanced program provides potential economic gains. The early detection and
prompt treatment component reduces death and morbidity. The selective vector control component
reduces environmental pollution and the risk of resistance that would be expensive to control. The
medicated mosquito nets should also decrease malaria cases and deaths. By preventing epidemics from
spreading, the epidemic response and intersectoral collaboration component lowers the costs of malaria
control and reduces losses to industry from ill construction workers. The institutional strengthening
component provides indirect economic gains by supporting other components.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 13
Country: India                                                         Project Title: Malaria Control
13.    Financial Assessment (see Annex 5):
Because it is largely a public good, malaria control will continue to require significant financial
commitment by the GOI. Moreover, malaria control requirements will grow in the future because of
population growth and likely increases in conditions that promote malaria, such as migration, climactic
changes, and development projects. The NMP, which controls the bulk of spending on malaria control in
India, is sponsored and led centrally, yet receives fifty percent financial contribution from the states.
State contributions cover salaries of staff often assigned to tasks other than malaria control. Currently,
the NMP procures almost all insecticides and drugs used nationally, while states provide the operational
wages of staff and district-level seasonal spray workers. In wealthier states, such as Maharashtra, this
system works well. In poorer states, such as Bihar, effective malaria control often relies upon cash
transfers from NMP, usually to hire seasonal spray workers. States, however, do contribute more in
times of epidemics.
The NMP program is already large, but without the enhanced program its effectiveness is likely to
decline. Under the GOI's Eighth Five Year Plan (1992 to 1997), about Rs. 5 billion (approximately
eleven percent of all outlays by MOHFW) went to malaria control. Over this five-year period, inflation-
adjusted annual expenditures by NMP increased from Rs. 1. I billion in 1996 prices to Rs. 1.4 billion
(Figure 2). The planned expenditures in FY1996/97 represent eleven percent of MOHFW outlays.
Figure 2. Annual Expenditures by the NMP Under the Eighth
Five Year Plan
-'  1,500
~-1,000-
500j
92-93    93-94     94-95    95-96     96-97
Fiscal Year
The increase in budget by the NMP under the enhanced program is comparable to increases in other
Bank-assisted projects, such as Leprosy Elimination and Cataract Blindness Control. IDA will help
finance the incremental salaries of malaria link functions and seasonal spray workers in areas in which
malaria is endemic. The malaria link functions are not permanent posts, implying that local districts will
be permitted to hire anyone, including existing workers to execute these core functions. States, village
councils or community sources of financing will be required at the end of the project to sustain local
malaria control efforts.
The flow of funds will be as follows:
(a)    NMP will procure all major goods and equipment nationally and distribute them as resources in
kind to districts, states and regional offices.
(b)    In most states, districts will establish a revolving fund, administered by a society or an
empowered committee, to procure small purchases, pay for malaria link functions, and meet operational



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 14
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
costs. The NMP will fund these and review their technical, managerial and financial performance.
Districts will contract an accountant to monitor spending, and state coordinators will be responsible for
timely collection of financial information.
(c)    Parts of certain components, such as IEC activities, medicated mosquito net distribution, and
social marketing, will be contracted to NGOs or private groups on a competitive basis.
Disbursement on the basis of statements of expenditure will include: (a) incremental operating costs;
(b) consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in the case of firms and
$50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals; (c) contracts for goods and works not exceeding $300,000
equivalent each; (d) contracts for medicated mosquito nets not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; and
(e) contracts for vehicles and insecticides not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each. Given the large size
of the Credit and the disbursement period (66 months), a special account of US$8 million equivalent will
be used.
Retroactive financing: In order to facilitate a timely project start and to meet several costs associated
with adoption of the enhanced program, retroactive financing up to US$5 million equivalent (or three
percent of the credit) would be provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred after September 30,
1996. Expenditures would be for eligible insecticides, mosquito net program, malaria link functions,
publicity, consultant services, training and workshops, and incremental operating costs.
Financial sustainability: The project is likely to be sustainable for several reasons:
(a)    There is tremendous political support for controlling malaria, given much publicized outbreaks
and the fact that malaria occurs nearly everywhere in India.
(b)    Even in the worst case scenario, the recurrent cost liability at the national level would be about
$20 million per year, or about five percent of all MOHFW expenditures, or about 0.03 percent of total
GOI expenditures; at the state level the recurrent cost liability would total about $6 million. A more
favorable scenario is a recurrent cost liability at the national level of about $6.7 million in the final year
of the IDA Credit, of which IDA will finance about a fifth. This liability represents about seventeen
percent of the NMP's budget in 1996. However, future outlays to the NMP should increase.
(c)    Health expenditure by GOI is expected to be sustained. In the proposed Ninth Five-year Plan
(1997 to 2002), health expenditure is expected to be slightly under three percent of GOI spending,
comparable to the Eighth-Five year Plan.
(d)    The enhanced program will improve the efficiency of the NMP. Improved logistics and
distribution will ensure that drugs and insecticides are not wasted, for example. Better information
systems will help to reduce the use of insecticides.
(e)    The enhanced program favors interventions with lower recurrent costs: the ratio of recurrent
costs to total costs is lower for early detection and prompt treatment, or medicated mosquito nets, than it
is for indoor residual spraying (see Annex 4). Savings from the reduced insecticide purchases will be
available for other interventions.
14.    Technical Assessment:
IDA made detailed technical assessments for each component and their potential economic gains (see
project file). IDA shared these assessments with GOI who incorporated these into its National Policy
Letter (Annex 2B). The enhanced program has already been recommended by the Expert Committee



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 15
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
reporting to the Prime Minister (1995) and reflects the WHO Revised Malaria Control Strategy (1995).
The WHO, the Malaria Consortium, and other agencies have reviewed the IDA Credit and agree that the
enhanced program is well designed.
Widespread malaria control in India, based largely on indoor residual spraying, began in the 1950s. The
number of malaria cases fell dramatically from seventy-five million annually in the early 1950s to one
hundred thousand in the mid-1960s, when a resurgence of the disease occurred. That resurgence, which
peaked in 1976 with six and one-half million cases, was caused by multiple factors, including inadequate
funding and management of the NMP, and insecticide and drug resistance. Since the early 1980s,
continued reliance on indoor residual spraying, and inadequate use of other interventions have led to
increasing cases, despite higher spending (Figure 3). India currently suffers from endemic malaria and
occasional epidemics, especially of severe malaria. The percentage of severe cases of malaria has risen
over time, partly reflecting resistance to DDT spraying and chloroquine drugs. Malaria shows great
regional variation in India, with the ten states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Assam accounting for eighty-five percent of
malaria-related deaths and two-thirds of all malaria cases in India.
Recognizing the local nature of malaria, the NMP in 1986 adopted an epidemiological risk stratification
approach, which allows stratification of regional malaria burdens based on selected technical
information. This stratification does not yet incorporate ecological and occupational factors or
community-based factors. In the enhanced program, epidemiological stratification will be done at the
village level. With further developments of information systems, including the geographic information
system, more complex stratification may enable even more focal control activities.
15.   Institutional Assessment:
The enhanced program will build upon the strengths of NMP and address its weaknesses.
The NMP strengths include: (a) more than forty years of malaria expertise in entomology, treatment,
and monitoring; (b) strong leadership and a committed core staff of forty professionals with more than
one thousand years of experience in malaria control; (c) considerable experience in two of the enhanced
program's components, vector control and drug distribution; and (d) experience in procurement of
insecticides, drugs, microscopes, and ether items.
The enhanced program will build on NMP's strengths by: (a) using its existing administrative
procedures to pay seasonal spray workers to distribute drugs; (b) enhancing its expertise in
entomological and drug monitoring; (c) drawing upon procurement experience to purchase items such as
insecticides, drugs and microscopes, using IDA guidelines; and (d) strengthening operational research
links with the MRC and other groups.
The NMP's weaknesses include: (a) the lack of appropriate skills mix among professional staff, most of
whom are narrowly trained in entomology and few of whom have exposure to epidemiology,
management, IEC, or social assessment; (b) limited experience working with community-based "ground-
up" malaria control programs run by district societies, NGOs and village councils; (c) an inefficient
information system, including heavy paperwork requirements for districts; and (d) limited financial skills
among staff.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Plage 16
Country: India                                                       Project Title: Malaria Control
Figure 3. Epidemiological profile of malaria in India, 1961-1994
7                                                                           70
CASES
6                                                                           50
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
3                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~30~
(n
w
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
61 6365 6769 71 737577 79 8183 8587 8991  94
Abbreviations: ABER = Annual blood exarnination rate per 100 population. Pt/o = The percentage of severe malaria (P.
falciparum) to total malaria. SPR = slide positivity rate or number of positive slides per 100 examined.
The enhanced program would systematically address these weaknesses in several ways:
(a)    NMP will add consultant staff in key areas such as epidemiology, financial management, IEC
and social assessment. All staff working on the project will be integrated into NMP's overall
management structure. Key skills will be institutionalized into NMP in the long term by creating a
limited number of permanent positions.
(b)    NMP will encourage micro-planning by districts to build community-based malaria control by
means of district implementation plans. Such efforts in four pilot districts during project preparation
suggest that a better balance of malaria control interventions is achievable. In addition, during the early
part of the enhanced program, the NMP will work carefully with the Cataract Blindness Program to learn
lessons on effective and timely flow-of-funds to districts.
(c)    NMP will update and computerize its information system. NMP will continue to use a paper-
based information system during the first year of implementation while it conducts a detailed evaluation
of a computerized system.
(d)    National, state and district level staff will receive technical and management training. To ensure
suitably qualified personnel are hired, NMP will use market rates for training allowances, and daily
allowances and consultant services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 17
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
16.    Social Assessment:
The prevalence of malaria is affected by numerous social factors, including population shifts and
changes in social conditions. Malaria disproportionately causes suffering and economic loss among the
most vulnerable groups of society, namely, children, pregnant women, migrant laborers, and scheduled
castes and tribes. An integral part of the enhanced program is inclusion of social factors in the planning
of malaria control through institutionalizing social assessment, participatory workshops and stakeholder
analysis (see section 18).
Tribal strategy. The GOI conducted a beneficiary assessment (BA) to: (a) ensure that scheduled castes
and tribal peoples benefit from the proposed project; (b) avoid or mitigate potential adverse effects on
scheduled castes and tribal peoples; (c) identify their perceptions of the problem and of the proposed
interventions; and (d) enhance beneficiary ownership of local malaria control. The BA found that
knowledge of the cause and spread of malaria was low in tribal communities, even among health
workers, and that past efforts by NMP to deliver early detection and prompt treatment had not been
successful in the districts studied because of poor coverage, inadequate inputs, and a lack of community
awareness and involvement. The BA supported the need to build capacity at the state and national levels
to provide linkages between the community and NMP in order to improve the district implementation
plans and their impact.
The enhanced program will include appropriate measures to ensure that the social and economic benefits
reaped by such groups are in harmony with their cultural practices. These measures are consistent with
the World Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples and OD 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement and include the following:
(a)    use of local IEC and mass awareness programs for malaria control at weekly markets and other
venues in tribal areas and increased interaction between health workers and tribal populations;
(b)    provision of on-going training for front-line health staff in the diagnosis, treatment, and
prevention of malaria;
(c)    selection of local NGOs and grassroots organizations in the production and distribution of
medicated mosquito nets; and
(d)    establishment of early detection and prompt treatment facilities after appropriate measures are
taken to involve the community in their selection. The location of the drug distribution centers and fever
treatment depots will be publicized, and community leaders, traditional healers, teachers, village councils
members, educated youth and forest guards will be trained to support these centers or depots.
Building capacity for on-going social assessment. The enhanced program will build capacity for social
and anthropological skills to incorporate social, occupational and anthropological factors into planning
malaria control and to improve assessment of the needs of less advantaged groups. An anthropologist
will be appointed to NMP to coordinate social assessment activities and to provide training to state and
district level officers. Operational research that has a strong social assessment component will be
conducted with the help of village-level and district-level health functionaries, grassroots NGOs and
independent research organizations. Social assessment procedures will also be incorporated into the
revised operational guidelines.
17.    Environmental Assessment:
IDA gave the proposed credit a "B" rating for environmental assessment because of its concern about the
potentially high level of indoor residual spraying. Insecticide spraying is part of malaria control



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 18
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
strategies worldwide and will continue to be part of the strategy in India and elsewhere. There is much
precedent for the Bank financing insecticides as part of malaria control programs: insecticides
constituted thirteen, six and three percent of spending in the Brazil, Sri Lanka, and Cambodia projects,
respectively. These projects, like the enhanced project, follow WHO guidelines for insecticide use in
public health programs. None of these previous projects conducted an environmental assessment.
GOI contracted the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute to conduct a detailed
environmental assessment, in consultation with NMP, the MRC, the Ministry of Environment and
Forestry, and the WHO. Given the national scope of the credit, the environmental assessment adopted a
"sectoral" approach that involves sector-wide environmental analysis and supports integration of
environmental issues into long-term planning. The sectoral approach obviates the need for an
environmental assessment in any district in which the IDA Credit would spend resources, and creates
guidelines that are incorporated into normal procedures. The environmental assessment fulfills OD 4.00
on Environmental Assessment and Operational Procedure 4.09 on Pest Management.
Key results from the environmental assessment include the following:
(a)    All insecticides harm the environment to some extent. However, the risk of increased death and
morbidity from not using insecticides exceeds their negative environmental impact, especially among the
rural poor.
(b)    The environmental risks from insecticides use in agriculture far outweigh those of spraying for
malaria control.
(c)    The proposed insecticide choices should be based upon efficacy, cost and safety. Synthetic
pyrethroids are the most effective and safe but cost substantially more than DDT. Other older
insecticides, such as BHC, are much more toxic and should be eliminated as quickly as possible.
(d)    In addition to cutting back on routine spraying, improved training and logistics, better
environmental management, and diversifying to other biological agents may minimize environmental
damage. The environmental assessment included guidelines on better environmental management.
As a result of the environmental assessment, the project design was modified in the following ways:
(a)    The project will help catalyze the phasing out of some insecticides commonly used in India, such
as DDT on both demand and supply sides. Demand for these insecticides will drop because of the
Revised Insecticide Guidelines and the revised operational guidelines, better IEC, and alternative
interventions. To address the supply side, the enhanced program will include feasibility studies for
privatizing and diversifying the manufacture of some insecticides.
(b)    The project will finance another environmental assessment around the third year of
implementation. The enhanced program will also finance the costs of an on-going operational committee
comprising NMP, MRC and other staff to discuss environmental issues. The results of these meetings
will be reported to the annual program development review.
(c)    Key parts of the environmental assessment will become part of the revised operational
guidelines. The revised operational guidelines will include efforts to improve the quality of spraying,
ensure the safety of spray workers, and reduce spillage and theft.
(d)    The project will finance operational research studies, including studies related to environmental
impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 19
Country: India                                                            Project Title: Malaria Control
18.    Participatory Approach:
Stakeholder participation. The overall objective of the stakeholder analysis has been to consult and
seek the active collaboration and participation of various beneficiaries in the enhanced program (Tables 3
and 4). In addition to the BA, seven distinct sets of participation consultations have been conducted with
stakeholders, all with IDA involvement: (a) GOI held a series of regional workshops with community
participation before the identification mission; (b) GOI and IDA held a joint review of GOI's proposal
for malaria control with various stakeholders and community groups during the identification mission
(November 1995); (c) representatives from village councils held a planning workshop with GOI and IDA
during the pre-appraisal mission (March 1996); (d) NMP held two social participation and planning
workshops in each of the four districts identified to develop the guidelines for district implementation
plans (May to July 1996); (e) GOI and IDA held state-level consultations with the Departments of Tribal
Welfare and Rural Development; (f) GOI and IDA held a joint intersectoral workshop with various line
ministries (March 1996); and (g) an NGO consultation on insecticide policy was held in February 1997.
These meetings have contributed to the stakeholder analysis at the secondary and primary levels.
Participatory efforts in the preparation of the IDA Credit have already had three impacts: (a) they helped
expand the scope of the project to involve the entire malaria control program rather than choosing a
particular geographic area; (b) they sharpened the focus on community-based interventions and
intersectoral collaboration; and (c) they increased the extent of district-level planning.
Table 3. Stakeholder analysis of the enhanced program
Participant                      Mechanism                      Output or Impact
Government health service providers   Workshops, planning briefs from   Project design that is developed both
national and state programs    from above and below
Government non-health sector service  Intersectoral board         Increased awareness of malaria and use
providers (e.g., other ministries)                                of methods to lower malaria sources
NGOs and private sector            Workshops and competitive       Enhanced NGO and private provider
contracts                      activity in IEC campaigns, awareness,
and medicated mosquito net provision
Village councils, local community  Social participation workshop;    Enhanced awareness of malaria,
leaders, and women's groups        personal interview, focus groups,  support of local IEC efforts, and
BA and district societies      medicated mosquito net distribution
Local households, including        Focus groups and personal      Increased use of MMN program
scheduled caste and tribal peoples  interviews in the BA, IEC efforts,  measures, heightened awareness of
community mobilization via and   malaria and greater access to early
district societies             detection and treatment.
Table 4. Level of participation in the enhanced program by various groups
Group              Identification/Preparation  Implementation            Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups   Close collaboration     Close collaboration     Close collaboration
Village councils (district, block  Close collaboration   Close collaboration     Close collaboration
and community level) and NGOs
Other donors (WHO and ODA)    Collaboration              Collaboration           Collaboration
Medical associations            Consultation             Collaboration           Collaboration



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 20
Country: India                                                        Project Title: Malaria Control
19.    Sustainability:
In addition to financial sustainability (Section 13), the technical and managerial sustainability of the
enhanced program has been analyzed.
Technical sustainability is high because we expect:
(a)    The NMP would continue to be the effective leader of malaria control activities well into the
future and would continue to promote the better mix of effective malaria control interventions
throughout the country after the IDA Credit closes.
(b)    The revised operational guidelines would help institutionalize successful interventions and
approaches such as social and environiental assessments.
(c)    Investments in training, acquisition of new expertise, better information systems, and ongoing
review would all help NMP to implement the enhanced program.
(d)    Improved capacity at the district level, including the training of district malaria officers and
engagement of local societies, would help maintain community-based ownership.
(e)    The GOI's efforts to increase autonomy of village councils would help ensure that local demand
for malaria control will continue into the future.
(f)    Efforts at intersectoral collaboration would help heighten awareness by industries and
development projects of simple environmental management and low-cost treatment options.
Managerial sustainability is high because we expect:
(a)    NMP staff would receive considerable management training and district-level staff would
acquire micro-planning skills through the guidelines for district implementation plans and other
approaches. Use of market rates for training will ensure participation in training.
(b)    A better information system and a focus on monitoring and evaluation would help manage
interventions more effectively at all levels.
(c)    Skills in accounting, financial review, procurement, management planning and information will
be integrated into NMP's overall management structure.
(d)    Creation of district-based implementation plans would increase transparency and accountability
of local malaria control activities.
20.    Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex I and Table 5):
The overall risk of the project failing to meet its developmental objectives is rated as medium. Key risks
and their safeguards include:
(a)    Unforeseen major epidemics or insecticide and drug resistance could push the entire program
toward short-term responses. The enhanced program will strengthen epidemic planning and response by
establishing regional response teams and a geographic information system.
(b)    Political pressure may lead to adoption of a malaria control that is dominated by insecticide
spraying. The enhanced program relies upon both supply and demand-side reduction to prevent this
potential problem. The IDA Credit will closely monitor adherence to the National Policy Letter and



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 21
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
Revised Insecticide Guidelines, including examination of any widespread spraying that may threaten the
investment.
(c)    Information may be inadequate to control malaria locally. To improve the quality and quantity
of information available, the enhanced program will contain considerable efforts in training and
information systems.
(d)    Correction of ineffective activities may take place too slowly. Annual program development
reviews will help to ensure that the progress continues.
21.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
The enhanced program includes several potentially controversial elements:
(a)    Epidemics will attract media and public attention. Criticisms may be directed at IDA, despite
the enhanced program, and demand for short-term responses may rise. Such controversy is unavoidable,
but better planning will help the NMP respond to epidemics, and better IEC will inform the public about
options for malaria control.
(b)    Insecticide use may disturb environmentalists. The enhanced program will promote better
operational quality, reduce insecticide demand (and possibly supply) and periodically review
environmental issues.
(c)    NGOs have not yet been very active in malaria control but have been critical of poor response by
the GOI to epidemics. Several NGOs were consulted at identification and in social participation
workshops to solicit inputs. Several other NGOs met in February 1997 to review insecticide issues.
Finally, other NGOs will help deliver IEC and the medicated mosquito net program.
(d)    Politicians may object to removing eradication from the NMP's full title. However this name
change is necessary to provide the public with a more realistic appreciation of malaria control.
BLOCK 4: MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
22.    Effectiveness Conditions: None
23.    Other. During negotiations, IDA obtained the following assurances from GOI representatives:
(a)    GOI shall implement the IDA Credit in accordance with the National Policy Letter, the Revised
Insecticide Guidelines, and the PIP agreed with IDA.
(b)    GOI shall ensure that an independent review of the technical, administrative and operational
aspects of the enhanced program is completed by December 15, 2000.
(c)    GOI shall make provision for three dedicated positions within the NMP for staff with skills in
finance and administration, social assessment and IEC, and shall appoint staff to fill such positions by
April 1, 2000. By April 1, 1998, GOI shall change the name of the NMP Directorate to "Directorate of
National Malaria Action Program" or such other name reflective of the policies and objectives of the
enhanced program and not reflecting eradication.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 22
Country: India                                                          Project Title: Malaria Control
Table 5: Summary of Risks, Ratings and Minimization Measures
Risk                  Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
- - - ~iTi7nT&o7r~s        Rating
Over reliance on indoor residual  High      National Policy Letter, Revised Insecticide Guidelines, on-
spraying, especially for political          going review and limited IDA financing of insecticides will
reasons, may continue.                      discourage inappropriate use. Reviews will carefully monitor
spending, coverage, and quality of indoor residual spraying.
The NMP will inform Parliament about effective control. IEC
activities will help inform public opinion about spraying and
alternative methods.
Entrenched NMP staff may not       Low      The NMP helped to design the IDA Credit, including the PIP,
accept and own the enhanced                 guidelines for district implementation plans, and
program.                                    insecticide policies. The IDA will share lessons from
successful control programs elsewhere in the world. The
enhanced program will emphasize management, training and
capacity building.
Major epidemics or increasing      High     NMP will strengthen regional epidemic offices and will
resistance will alter NMP focus to          carefully monitor resistance. The annual program development
short-term responses, including             review will help guide major program changes and ensure that
mass indoor residual spraying.              short-term responses are consistent with longer-term
objectives.
Medicated mosquito nets will fail  High     The focus of first-year activities will be careful studies, limited
due to poor social marketing, or            distribution, evaluation, and engagement of NGOs and social
poor acceptance.                            marketing agencies to promote public, private, and voluntary
distribution. The annual program development review will
evaluate medicated mosquito nets.
Involvement of the household and    Medium    The enhanced program will use the guidelines for district
the community may vary among               implementation plans. The NMP will evaluate lessons from
states and communities.                     districts piloting the guidelines for district implementation
plans. District societies will facilitate local spending and
community participation. The NMP will have flexibility to
respond to local conditions and implementation abilities.
Delays, driven largely by        Medium    The design of project includes up-front discussion and
MOHFW, in procurement or                    clearances requested on major items, and no geographic
clearances will hinder effective           restriction in responding to emergencies (except for meeting
malaria response                           financial, accounting, and audit requirements). IDA
procedures and guidelines are familiar to NMP staff and
procurement arrangements are well advanced.
Some states or districts will have  High    The NMP will have the flexibility to spend funds based upon
poor start-up to malaria control,           demonstrable need. State officers will help focus on
and delays in filling posts                 management and resolution of obstacles.
Flow of cash or goods from the   Medium    The enhanced program will adopt a flow of funds procedure
NMP to districts will not be timely         similar to that used in the Cataract Blindness Project. State
and adequate                                malaria coordinators will help collect financial data. Districts
will contract accounting and management expertise.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 23
Country: India                                                      Project Title: Malaria Control
(d)    GOI shall cause the enhanced program to be adequately staffed and funded, and shall maintain
such staff and funding for the duration of the IDA Credit. By April 15, 1998, GOI shall provide to IDA a
list of the enhanced program staff, such list to summarize the job descriptions of each staff member.
GOI shall take appropriate measures to maintain continuity of key staff of the enhanced program.
(e)    Proceeds of the Credit and goods and services purchased under the IDA Credit shall be provided
to non-core participating states upon the NMP Directorate's determination of demonstrable need, such
determination to be based on: (i) appropriate public health practices; (ii) accordance with the objectives
of the IDA Credit; and (iii) adherence to the procurement, audit and all other applicable provisions
stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
(f)    GOI shall, and shall cause the states to use insecticides for malaria control in accordance with the
Revised Insecticide Guidelines, which Guidelines may be revised from time to time with the mutual
agreement of GOI and IDA.
(g)    GOI shall carry out annual program development reviews (APDRs) conducted in accordance
with Terms of Reference agreed with IDA. The APDR Committee shall meet not less than annually, and
no later than October 31 of each year.
(h)    GOI shall select, and shall cause states to select, non-governmental organizations, social
marketing agencies, and specialized agencies and institutes of the GOI to produce, market and distribute
medicated mosquito nets in accordance with the procedures specified in the PIP. In accordance with the
PIP, the GOI shall pursue, where appropriate, recovery of the costs of the medicated mosquito nets
distributed under the enhanced program.
(i)    The NMP shall take all necessary measures to cause district implementation plans developed in
accordance with the guidelines for district implementation plans noted in the PIP to be adopted and
implemented in all districts in the core participating states in accordance with the following schedule: 15
percent of the total number of district implementation plans shall be completed and approved by the
NMP by December 15, 1997; 50 percent by June 30, 1998 and 100 percent by June 30, 1999.
(j)    The NMP shall liaise with concerned authorities in respect of major development projects which
may have a propensity to create malariogenic conditions, with a view to contain their health hazards.
(k)    GOI shall ensure that state Malaria Coordinators for the core participating states are appointed
by December 15, 1997. GOI shall take appropriate measures to promote continuity of key staff at the
state and district levels, including malaria officers trained under the enhanced program.
(I)    Operational research under the enhanced program shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedures specified in the PIP. The identification of research topics and the implementation agencies to
carry out such research shall be accomplished through a peer-review process. Selection of
implementation agencies to carry out such research shall follow principles of transparency and
competition. Relevant malaria research which receives international peer-reviewed funding shall be
eligible for additional funding from GOI.
(m)   GOI shall use its best efforts to encourage all states to adopt the model by-law for urban malaria
control contained in the PIP, with the goal of adoption by at least 15 states by April 30, 2000.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 24
Country: India                                                     Project Title: Malaria Control
(n)    By July 31, 1999, the NMP shall review and update its existing Operational Guidelines to reflect
the strategies and norns of the enhanced program.
(o)    By June 30 of each year, GOI shall provide to IDA summary results of the previous annual
meeting of its existing inter-ministerial Working Group on DDT Use in Public Health. In addition, the
NMP shall supply program expenditure data on insecticides, biolarvicides and larvivorous fishes, and the
annual budgets and expenditures of the NMP.
(p)    GOI shall ensure that by April 30, 1998, at least two representatives from industry are members
of its interministerial National Task Force on Intersectoral Issues in Malaria, and shall further ensure that
such Task Force meets at least once a year.
(q)    GOI shall, and shall cause each state to, implement the enhanced program in any tribal area in
accordance with the Tribal Strategy noted in the PIP, which Strategy was developed with the
participation of the beneficiaries.
(r)    GOI shall: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA; (ii) prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, and furnish to IDA, on or about November 30 of each year, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities; and (iii) review with IDA, by December 15 of each
year, and take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the IDA Credit and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and IDA's views on the matter.
Condition of Disbursement
(s)    Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, a Letter of Undertaking shall be required from each of the
core participating States of (Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, and
Rajasthan) in a format agreeable to IDA.
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This IDA Credit complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: P rabh                                   Country Manager: Robert S. brysdal ,






Annex I
Page I of 5
Project Design Summary
(Baseline and target values are given below. Qualitative indicators are indicated by an asterisk)
Narrative summary         Key performance        Monitoring and supervision   Critical assumptions
indicators                                           and risks
I. CAS objective
Improve national      . Decline in malaria cases    . Annual review of national    . Malaria is a
health                  (by year 5)                health statistics           significant cause of
. Stabilization of "fatal                                illness and death and
malaria" (i.e., P.                                     inhibits socio-
Falciparum) as a                                       economic
percentage of total malaria
cases.
II. Project development objectives
U Use of the better mix    . Percentage of total NMP    . Biannual budget reports of    . Political pressure
of effective anti-      budget (i.e., IDA + regular   the IDA Credit           may be exerted to
malarial interventions  budget) spent on non-IRS   . Annual program            use indoor residual
activities over the       development review           spraying
previous two fiscal years   . NMP to provide details on
, Target population covered   full range of activities every
by appropriate IEC        six months
messages                 . IEC surveys
D Degree of adherence to
National Policy Letter and
Revised Insecticide
Guidelines *
D Strengthened and      . Number of districts action   . Reports provided by district  . NMP staff may resist
reoriented NMP          plans that have been       malaria officers/district   the enhanced
completed and have        societies                    program
resulted in more than two   . Records kept at NMP     . Households and
community meetings and   . External evaluation of      communities will
the spending of more than    management skills in second   take ownership of
at least 60% of allocated  or third year               the enhanced
funds                                                  program
. Reduced morbidity and  . Decline in malaria cases    . Routine information   . Reported cases of
mortality due to        (by year 5)                collected by NMP            malaria may rise or
malaria.              . Stabilization of "fatal                                remain unchanged in
malaria" (i.e., P.                                     the medium term
Falciparum) as a                                      . Drug and/or
percentage of total malaria                            insecticide resistance
cases.                                                 may increase



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Narrative summary          Key performance        Monitoring and supervision    Critical assumptions
indicators                                            and risks
III. Project Outputs by Component
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment
Improved accessibility,  . Average time gap between   . Routine data recorded at  . Delays in procurement
speed, and accuracy of    collection of blood slide  primary health centers   . Failure to link training
diagnosis of malaria    and recording of diagnosis                              of personnel to
cases                   at malaria lab                                          provision of laboratory
.Stabilization of "fatal                                 equipment
malaria" (i.e., P.                                    . Drug and/or insecticide
Falciparum) as a                                        resistance may increase
percentage of total malaria
cases.
Selective Vector Control and Diversification
. Targeted spraying of    . Availability of village-level  . Routine reporting by district  . Flow of cash or goods
insecticides            epidemiological            malaria officers/district   from NMP not timely
information *              societies                   or adequate
.Degree of adherence to                                . Political pressure to use
National Policy Letter and                              indoor residual
Revised Insecticide                                     spraying regardless of
Guidelines *                                            monitored conditions
. Increased use of non-    . Percentage of total NMP  . Accounting records at NMP   . Political pressure to use
insecticide vector      budget (i.e. IDA + regular                              indoor residual
control methods         budget) spent on non-IRS                                spraying
activities over the previous
two fiscal years
Medicated Mosquito Net Program
. Increased use of      . Number of medicated      . Accounting records at NMP   . Poor distribution and
medicated mosquito      mosquito nets distributed    . Special studies of       marketing of medicated
nets                   through public/voluntary     effectiveness of medicated  mosquito nets
social marketing           mosquito nets              . Political pressure to use
approaches                                             indoor residual
. Acceptability of medicated                             spraying
mosquito nets *



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Narrative summary          Key performance         Monitoring and supervision     Critical assumptions
indicators                                              and risks
Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration
.Strengthening of       . Extend of functioning of    . Reports filed by offices  . Delays in procurement
regional offices        regional offices *
.Intersectoral          . Number of municipal       . NMP data routinely         . Poor cooperation by
collaboration with      corporations that have      collected, reports from       states and by other
urban centers and        adopted model anti-        Ministry of Environment      Ministries
development projects    malaria bylaws              and Forestry
.Number of malaria health-
risk assessment studies
launched by NMP
Institutional Strengthening
. Improved management  . Percentage of key targeted  . NMP training records      . Resistance of
and planning skills at   staff at states/districts that                          management staff to
NMP, state and district    have acquired                                          changed roles
levels                  epidemiological and
management skills
. New skills at NMP     . Number of multi-          . NMP data
(e.g., anthropology)    disciplinary (non-
entomological) staff hired
at NMP
. Creation and          . Target population covered  . Reports from state, regional   . Failure to produce
dissemination of IEC    by appropriate IEC          and district malaria officers,    culturally appropriate
program                 messages                    and village councils/ NGOs    IEC messages
.Degree of involvement of   . IEC studies
village councils/NGOs *
. Increased operational    . Quality of research    . Working committee records   . Resistance to
research                projects advertised,      . Minutes of APDR meetings     operational research or
funded, initiated and                                   to expert criticism
completed *
Utility of APDR
recommendations *
Baseline and target values for quantitative indicators
1. Number of malaria cases reported to NMP.
Baseline:      2.85 million per annum
Year 3:        5% increase over baseline (i.e., expected to rise due to publicity and better detection)
Year 5:         10% decrease from year 3
2. "Fatal malaria" (i.e., P. Falciparum) as a percentage of total malaria cases.
Baseline:      approximately 40% (this value is rising; the enhanced program will minimize the increase)
Year 3:        less than 50%
Year 5:        stabilized at less than 50%



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
3. Percentage of total NMP budget (i.e., IDA Credit plus regular budget) spent on non-indoor residual spray
activities over the previous two fiscal years.
Baseline:      25%
Year 3:        30%
Year 5:        40%
4. Target population covered by appropriate IEC messages.
Baseline:        1%
Year 3:        20%
Year 5:        50%
5. Number of districts action plans that have been completed and have resulted in more than two community
meetings and the spending of more than at least 60 percent of allocated funds.
Baseline:        0
Year 3:        30
Year 5:        70
6. Average time gap between collection of blood slide and recording of diagnosis at malaria laboratory.
Baseline:      more than 14 days
Year 3:        7 to 14 days
Year 5:        less than 7 days
7. Number of MMNs distributed through public/voluntary social marketing approaches.
Baseline:       100,000
Year 3:         150,000
Year 5:        300,000
8. Number of municipal corporations that have adopted model anti-malaria bylaws in their state legislature.
Baseline:       3
Year 3:          5
Year 5:         10
9. Number of malaria health-risk assessment studies launched by NMP.
Baseline:       0%
Year 3:         10%
Year 5:        50%
10. Percentage of key targeted staff at states/districts that have acquired epidemiological and management skills.
Baseline:        5%
Year 3:        40%
Year 5:         100%
I 1. Number of multi-disciplinary staff hired at NMP
Baseline:       I
Year 3:        3
Year 4:        5
ANNUAL PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS
NEED AND TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ANNUAL PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
Need: The enhanced program envisages using a more diverse set of malaria control interventions. Annual review of
the implementation process was considered necessary so that modifications could be incorporated as and when



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
required. Such reviews will give the Directorate of the National Malaria Eradication Program (NMP) flexibility in
assigning appropriate resources and will allow the program to benefit from the global expertise on malaria.
Terms of Reference would be to:
(a) review implementation of malaria control strategies in relation to annual national, state and district levels plans
with a focus on project areas;
(b) review epidemiological, operational, social, economic, entomological, and drug sensitivity data collected during
the year;
(c) assess the effectiveness of the enhanced program on the basis of (a) and (b);
(d) identify gaps in information required to assess the effectiveness of surveillance and recommend ways of filling
these gaps;
(e) review summary results of operational research and recommend their adoption, where relevant;
(f) monitor costs and trends, quality, and coverage of indoor residual spraying and insecticide activities, ensuring
that the overall project strategy adheres to the Revised Insecticide Guidelines;
(h) suggest long term strategies for strengthening and capacity building in malaria control; and
(i) advise the GOI and IDA if certain performance and monitoring indicators should be improved, added, or
dropped.
Composition of Annual Program Development Review Committee: The committee will comprise six members
plus a Chairperson, including one member each from the MRC, the National Institute for Communicable Diseases
and NMP, one member drawn from the community, and two experts from outside India. All members will be
experts in malaria control and community-based disease control. The Chairperson will be Director NMP. External
members will be selected by GOI, in consultation with IDA. The Committee would ordinarily function for a
minimum of two years and the term may be extended by mutual agreement between GOI and IDA. External
members would be financed by IDA or other agencies. Non-governmental members will be paid travel and daily
allowances as per the Central Government rates and a suitable honorarium commensurate with the volume of work.
With input from NMP, WHO, and others, the GOI will nominate the six members plus the chairperson of the annual
program development review by an agreed date.
Meetings: Reviews will be annual after project effectiveness, held at time mutually agreed upon by the
Government of India (GOI) and IDA. Dates for future meetings will be fixed after the first meeting. Each review
will be of five to ten days duration and will include briefing at NMP, necessary field visits, and review of budgets
and implementation plans for the next year. At least three weeks before each meeting the annual program
development review cell will compile a report for the review on key issues, including budget spending, etc.
Support Unit for Annual Program Development Review: A support unit responsible for preparing the material
required for the reviews will be integrated into the enhanced program. This unit will be responsible for preparing
the material required for the reviews. This team will report to the annual program development review committee
directly, but will work on a day-to-day basis with the staff of the enhanced program. The staff will consist of an
epidemiologist or health specialist and a typist or stenographer. Resources for computing, document processing,
and other services will be provided under the Project. The support unit will collect the data and prepare the material
in time for the annual reviews. The Project contribution will include costs for support unit staff and all costs for the
annual program development review process, with suitable counterpart funding from GOI (via the NMP budget).
Relation to the GOI and World Bank: The annual program development review will have no authority to bypass
any of the rules, regulations, accounting requirements, or procurement and disbursement guidelines of either the
GOI or the World Bank.






Annex 2A
Page I of 3
Detailed Project Description
The activities to be carried out under the enhanced program, and the total cost of each activity cluster or
component, are as follows:
I. Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment - US$44.7 million
1.      Improve the quality and accessibility of selected first level health units through: ensuring that
existing fever treatment depots (FTDs) and drug distribution centers (DDCs) are stocked with glass
slides, guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of malaria, and malaria medications; establishing at
least one FTD or DDC in villages where they do not already exist; establishing a system of malaria link
functions (MLFs) who will transfer supplies and information between primary health care facilities
(PHCFs) and FTDs and DDCs. provide FTD and DDC workers, multipurpose workers (MPWs) and
MLFs with training for the diagnosis, treatment and referral of malaria cases.
2.      Improve the speed and accuracy with which malaria cases are diagnosed through: providing all
PHCFs and district hospitals with a microscope, a trained laboratory technician and laboratory supplies
necessary for the microscopic diagnosis of malaria; providing selected PHCFs and district hospitals with
Dipstick diagnostic materials for use in emergencies; making dipstick tests available on the market for
use in private clinics based on cost-recovery; providing training on blood slide collection for FTD and
DDC workers, MPWs and MLFs.
3.      Improve the treatment of severe and complicated malaria cases through: equipping selected
PHCFs and district hospitals to deal with severe and complicated malaria cases; providing private clinics
with guidelines on the management of severe and complicated malaria cases and the supplies necessary
to treat these cases based on cost-recovery; training medical officers and their technical assistants at
primary levels on the treatment of severe and complicated malaria.
4.      Improve the system for collecting and relaying data on malaria cases diagnosed and treated.
II. Selective Vector Control - US$81.2 million
1.      Reduce the area in which household insecticide spraying is in use and improve the cost-
effectiveness and acceptability of insecticide spraying through: using epidemiological methods to select
high incidence villages for spraying; improving the epidemiological record-keeping selecting the least
expensive, effective insecticide for each village to be sprayed.
2.      Strengthen non-insecticide vector control activities through: building larvivorous fish
hatcheries and improving the system for distributing and monitoring these fish; selective use of
biolarvicides, especially in urban areas; promoting legislative measures that prevent the creation of
mosquito breeding sites.
3.      Provide technical assistance services, training, equipment and supplies to support the above
activities.
III. Medicated Mosquito Net Program - US$23.4 million
1.      In selected communities, assess the acceptability, sustainability, efficacy and cost-
effectiveness of medicated mosquito nets for the prevention of malaria. Selected NGOs will be awarded
consultant contracts to aid in distribution and testing.



Annex 2A
Page 2 of 3
2.      In areas where medicated mosquito nets are found to be effective, they will be distributed
using social marketing techniques. Public, private and voluntary community organizations will be
involved in the distribution and re-treatment of these nets. Local cooperatives and grassroots groups will
be given small grants for pursuing medicated mosquito net manufacture and distribution. Widespread
public distribution will be avoided prior to review of the mosquito net program.
IV. lEpidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration - US$19.5 million
1.      Strengthening Regional Malaria Epidemic Offices to coordinate control efforts in the case of
an epidemic and assist states in carrying out suitable prevention activities.
2.       Create, test and implement a Geographic Information System (GIS) at NMP including research
on ecologic, climatic and socioeconomic risk factors for malaria.
3.      Implement district-level committees to mobilize resources in the case of an epidemic.
4.       Develop and distribute guidelines for reporting and responding to early indicators of an
epidemic.
5.      Provide Guidelines to industries and development projects on preventing malaria, and
treatment of malaria cases.
6.       Legislation efforts at municipal and state levels to ensure development projects do not cause
malaria and treat it when it occurs., including introduction of model-by laws into state legislatures.
7.       Work with Ministry of Environment and Forestry and other agencies to ensure that major
developmental projects have a review of vector-borne diseases approved by NMP.
V. Institutional Strengthening - US$35.] million
1.      Produce, distribute and disseminate an integrated IEC program, including training videos and
audiocassettes for promoting prevention and early detection and treatment of malaria. This will be
targeted towards community leaders, local health-care workers and non-health personnel from private
and voluntary sectors.
2.       Provide in-service training for all those who are involved in the implementation of revised
malaria control activities. Local and district-level training will be sufficiently flexible as to allow for
locally relevant education. Training allowances and daily allowances will be near to market rates, so as
to ensure participation of staff. Selected training will involve domestic and foreign study tours.
3.       Develop, pilot and expand a Management Information System. This computer-based system
will facilitate the collection and analysis of data at the local level and will allow for easy transfer of
information between local, district, state and central personnel.
4.       Strengthen central-level administration by providing new NMP headquarters.
5.       Strengthen the monitoring of malaria control activities by conducting annual program
development reviews and review of enhanced program activities.
6.      Improve relevant applied research by providing a new MRC research facility.



Annex 2A
Page 3 of 3
7.      Identify a set of priority items for Operational Research, define their terms of reference and
select competent research agencies to execute these projects.
8.      Institutionalizing a mechanism for periodic reviews of environmental issues.
9.       Health-risk assessment studies, and preparation of future projects.
10.     Selected consultant studies including review of management functions at NMP.
11.     Create advocacy package for parliament and state politicians about malaria control.
12.     Strengthen the capabilities of the NMP for supervising the implementation of the enhanced
program, including the provision of technical assistance, training in logistics management and
information systems, and necessary equipment and supplies. Consultant salaries will be near market
rates, so as to ensure suitably qualified personnel join the enhanced program.
13.     Support a sub-unit which will be responsible for gathering and processing data for the annual
program development review.



I



Annex 2B
Page I of 7
91 rt   1 - 10ooi1
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
;;'A44G11TA                                                             NEW DELHI - 110011
SHAILAJA CHANDRA
Additional Secretary
Tele 301-7451
April 24, 1997
Dear Mr. Drysdale
This is in connection with the assurance for implementation of the enhanced
Malaria Control Programme in India in accordance with the agreed policies, updated
guidelines and mix of interventions.
Based upon the Expert Committee on Malaria (1995), and on-going inter-agency
and inter-ministerial policy development, the Government of India has proposed to the
International Development Association (IDA) a project for the enhancement of the
National Malaria Eradication Programme (NMEP) to cover all regions of the country,
with a special focus on the highly endemic malaria control areas.
The Government of India undertakes that the enhanced program will be
implemented with a better mix of interventions, with the twin objectives of being more
responsive to local needs, and strengthening the NMEP. The list of proposed activities is
outlined as per the attached policy matrix.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(SHAILAJ  CANDRA)
Mr. Robert Drvsdale,
Director
South Asia Country Department
WORLD BANK
1818 H Street NW
Washington. DC 20433



Annex 2B
Page 2 of 7
Policy Matrix: The Current NMP and Proposed Changes with the Enhanced Program
Component                      Current NMP                                   Enhanced Program
Selective vector   Adulticidal activities                        Gradual reduction in spraying of adulticides through
control            Relies on indoor residual spraying with selected  judicious, highly selective indoor residual spraying
insecticides of variable efficacy.            Village will become unit for spray operations
Subcenter is unit for spray operations        Use of newer insecticides (e.g., synthetic pyrethroids),
especially in areas of triple resistance and drug
resistance
Larvicidal Activities                         Selective use of biolarvicides, based upon efficacy and
Mostly uses chemical larvicides               operational research and selected distribution of
larvivorous fish
Increased focus on environmental management
through intersectoral collaboration
Early detection    Laboratory diagnosis is by microscopy, with   Goal of one microscopy laboratory per 30,000
and treatment      approximately one laboratory per 100,000      population
population                                    Dipstick tests for diagnosis in emergency situations
Involves private physicians and traditional healers with
cost recovery
Increases number of drug distribution centers and fever
Limited front-line detection and treatment by multi-  treatment depots
purpose workers, drug distribution centers, and fever  Establishes malaria link function and makes adequate
treatment depots                              drug supplies and artemesinine injectibles available at
various selected levels for treatment
Medicated          Limited studies and use                       Larger studies of MMN and carefully evaluated
mosquito nets                                                    distribution through grassroots organizations, social
(MMN)                                                            marketing agencies, and public agencies, while
avoiding widespread distribution prior to evaluation
Epidemic          Preventive activities are planned based on     Improved epidemiological monitoring and
planning and      epidemiological data collected the previous year  identification of risk factors for epidemics, including
rapid response                                                   geographic information systems (GIS)
Strengthening regional offices to address epidemics
Intersectoral      Limited engagement of industries and development   Involves National Malaria Task Force
collaboration      projects                                      Improved use of IEC; treatment guidelines, and model-
by laws
Information,       Limited communication materials are disseminated    Mass media, plus local information, education and
education and      to the state, district, and block level       communication planning and implementation, with an
communication                                                    emphasis on locally appropriate messages
Institutional
strengthening
* Training and     Routine training of all levels of staff       Enhanced training material, training institutions, and
management                                                     trainers at all levels, adds management and
epidemiological skills
* Management
information      Paper-based information system, with many      Selects most important indicators and develops
system (MIS)     standard pro-formae                            computer-based MIS and GIS
* Level of         Central planning, target based                Enhanced district implementation plans, and regional
planning                                                        and state planning



Annex 2B
Page 3 of 7
*4 It V;        .41 1' I - I Cw1 q
ftE  -- 110011
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
SHAILAJA  CHANDRA                                               NEW'DELHI 110011
Additional Secretary
Tele  301-7451
D.O. No.!vt. vO1'9!96-%[AL.
27th M,ar,:ch. t997.
-- r IA~~    - 
Kindlv rere: co rry lecters dared 8kh Jan. '97 and  Itch Feb.'97 and the
outcome of [he visiE of the recent Appraisal Mlission f'or ;he Mvlalaria Conroui Project.
The revised pojic  le-cer for insecricide us-,e for the enharnced malaria
control prograrrmme  icti Wor.d Bank suopor: is en.clse' n
Wich rezards.
Yours sinc-erelv,
(SHAILLAJA CHAYIDRA)
Mr. R.chard Skolni:.
Chiet;.
Population & Humar. R-scu-7e Division.
South Asia Councr-.- De-a.-ent 11
WORLD BANK.
iSIS. F. Stree-t N.;.
%% -SHI!NGTON DC 2'" 3



Annex 2B
Page 4 of 7
REVISED POLICY LETTER FOR INSECTICIDE USAGE IN
THE ENHCED MALARIA PROGRAIME IN INDIA
1.    Vector control is one of the important components of malaria control
programme. NMP has in the recent years shifted from its approach of indoor
residual spray in large areas to more selective areas for indoor residual spray.
The following represents consensus from several inputs, including an Environmental
Assessment conducted by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
(NEERI) in December, 1995, and two meetings of an Expert Group from
WHO/NICD/NMP/MRC in August 1996 and March 1997.
2.      The Government of India has already banned DDT in agriculture sector and
restricted its use in public health to the tune of 10,000 metric tons of technical
product. The actual use of DDT is far below this ceiling. WHO Group in 1993
studied the current situation regarding the use of DDT for controlling vector-
borne diseases, in particular malaria and after carefully reviewing all documents
and intensive discussion, concluded that: (i) DDT exposure as a result of indoor
residual spray does not provide convincing evidence of adverse effects; and (ii)
there was limited justification on toxicological or epidemiological grounds for
chaning current policy towards indoor residual spray of DDT. Thus it recommended
that DDT can be safely used for indoor spraying. Similar views were expressed by
the GOI Expert Committee (1995) on Malaria. Insecticides in the malaria control
programme constitute about only 8.5% of the total usage of pesticides in the
country. Moreover the insecticides in malaria control programme are generally
applied with trained personnel and suitable equipment resulting in minimal
contamination to food, fodder, water, soil etc., unlike many agricultural
pesticides.
3.    However, recognizing that DDT has low vector mortality in many settings, has
adverse impact agricultural produce (due to theft and leakage into agriculture)
and on the environment and also has falling acceptability by households, the
Committee of Secretaries has discussed DDT and other compounds in use in the
malaria program in January, 1997, and concluded that:
(i)  BHC will be banned from manufacture and use from April 1, 1997.
(ii) The use of DDT should be gradually phased out and the available
alternative utilized for public health programs. Limited use of DDT,
however, to cater to need of specific epidemic prone areas and malaria
endemic regions and also Kala-azar control could be continued in a
targeted manner for the immediate future.
(iii) A group, chaired by the Secretary (H) of the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare, with representatives of the Planning Commission,
Department of Biotechnology and Department of Agriculture and
Cooperation, will review the parameters of DDT use on an annual basis.
This will focus on pre-determined use of insecticides, and on use in
response to epidemics or demands.
4.    As part of the enhanced malaria control program at NMP, aided with
incremental financing from the World Bank, the NMP will develop specific
guidelines by December 31, 1998 on the following, based upon expert review and
operational research:



Annex 2B
Page 5 of 7
(i) criteria and complete data requirements needed to evaluate the efficacy
of insecticides (DDT and others) used for vector control, especially in
light of the considerable levels of insecticide resistance that are
known to occur in India. This will specifically include an objective
assessment of where DDT works and where it does not taking into
consideration the epidemiological impact. This may involve WHO testing
criteria, and the results should help determine the need to shift to
another insecticide in any given area (district, state, etc.).
(ii) criteria for stopping use of indoor-residual spraying in epidemic or
non-epidemic control activities.
5.    The technical issues for usage of  insecticides were discussed by a group of
experts having representative from WHO/SEARO, MRC and NICD which have considered
the various options available, the comments of World Bank Mission and the draft
Environmental Assessment report of NEERI and gave the following recommendations:-
(i) The group understood fully the importance of district management system
for selection of appropriate insecticides. The enhanced program will
develop a computerized system of information.
(ii) The group discussed geographical information system that is being
developed by MRC & the model will be absorbed in the programme. Hence,
Geographical Information System(GIS) will form an important component
of operational research.
(iii) Insecticides to be used in the spraying have to qualify Bureau of
Indian Standards specification as a quality control (which conform to
the standards of WHO). Along with existing WHO guidelines the
identified laboratories in the country as well as in NMP will conduct
quality tests of insecticides periodically and this will remain a
compulsory process in procurement policy.
(iv) The group also conveyed its satisfaction with the recommendations of
the GOI Expert Committee on Malaria (1995) wherein they have identified
epidemic high risk problematic malarious areas and hard core areas for
malaria residual spray as short term intervention measures.
6.    The group felt that priority for insecticides usage may be considered as
under:
(i) Plasmodium falciparum (P.f.) transmission should be given top priority.
Indoor residual spray should be scheduled in such a way that it cuts
the peak of P.f. transmission. If this is taken care of, mortality
due to malaria will decrease. In the light of this, the spray schedule
will be rescheduled in accordance with the existing transmission period
in certain situations.
(ii) The existing entomological zones should be rearranged so as to cover
most of the problematic areas and adjustable to continuing
environmental changes (deforestation, agricultural water and land use
patterns, etc). In addition, the state entomological cells will be
strengthened to monitor vector resistance.



Annex 2B
Page 6 of 7
(iii) The experts considered the definition of an epidemic of malaria. They
felt that the increase in clinical malaria cases, along with Slide
Positivity Rate(SPR), Slide Falciparum Rate(SFR) and Annual Parasitic
Index (API) of the proceeding year should be compared. They considered
that the ecological conditions in an area like deforestation, Dam
Constructions and other development projects, unusual rainfall leading
to water logging, etc. should be taken into account in an epidemic or
before an epidemic.
(iv) The group felt that clinical malaria reporting should be the part of
district management system (DMS).
(v) The experts studied the various procedures being followed by NMP for
safe transportation, storage and utilization of insecticides. It was
satisfied with the procedure being followed.
(vi) The phasing out of BHC in the near future was welcomed by the
experts. The cost of newer and effective insecticide like synthetic
pyrethroids for vector control was considered a major constraint. In
areas with triple vector resistance, drug resistance and in epidemic
situations, this costly insecticide should be used. NEERI report
endorses this view that in triple resistant areas (i.e. to DDT, BHC and
malathion) and drug resistance, synthetic pyrethroids will be the
insecticide of choice. It will be ensured that proper coverage in time
and dosages is carried out by trained personnel and strict supervision.
7.    The procurement of insecticides is based on the requirement provided by the
States as per approved norms to NMP., DDT is procured by NMP and supplied to the
consignee i.e. district well in advance so that insecticide can be sprayed as per
the schedule i.e. transmission season for malaria. Other insecticides like
malathion are mainly procured by the states and also part of synthetic prethriods
(recently introduced). Quality control of the insecticides is maintained by
sample checks of the insecticides which are carried out at NMP and approved
insecticide laboratories under the Insecticides Act/Rules. Before any insecticide
can either be procured from national manufacturers, or imported in India, this
compound has to undergo a strict screening for efficacy and safety to human health
and environment after it is registered by the Central Insecticide Board. The
quality standards are as per the specifications of ISI which conforms to WHO
specifications of insecticides.
B.    There will be bi-annual review by an independent Indian (non-NMP, non-MRC
and non-industry) agency to review the quality control of insecticides used,
including examination of testing facilities, equipment and analytical procedures.
9.    There will be a repeat environmental assessment of the entire program by
December 31, 1999, financed under the enhanced program with World Bank financing.
10.   The insecticides are transported either by rail or road to the consignees.
Detailed precautions during transport and storage have been provided by NMP as per
the recommendations of WHO. The precautions which have been mentioned in NEERI
report for transport, storage and handling are also undertaken by NMP.
Guidelines on safe handling of products will be incorporated into the enhanced
program, including the next revision of the Revised Operational Manual.
11.   The epidemiology of malaria has been changing over the years due to rapid



Annex 2B
Page 7 of 7
changes in the eco-system. According to these changes, the intervention
strategies have been revised by NMP from time to time. The revisions in the
strategies are printed as guidelines, manuals and operational instructions to the
implementing agencies which are States and districts (including PHCs). For
example, recently revised strategies were brought out as operational manual called
Malaria Action Plan 1995 wherein all the details of revised malaria control
strategies have been given. Similarly, Drug Policy 1996 adopted by NMP has been
widely circulated. Operational Guidelines (Malaria Action Plan 1995) was revised
to include the treatment schedule under the revised Drug Policy. Similarly,
number of documents are printed, wherein the details of NMP are given for general
reading. It becomes necessary to update Operational Guidelines as and when
required so as to make the implementing agencies aware of the various technical
policies.
12.   The strengthening of essential staff of NMP and the Regional Health Offices
has been envisaged and provided for. The need for Social Assessment and
Environmental Assessment will be met by acquiring the services of the Consultants
at appropriate time. Inter-sectoral coordination and collaboration with other
agencies such as Tribal Development to carry out malaria control activities are
also being ensured.






Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local  Foreign  Total
-(US$ Million)---
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment      36.2      4.3    40.5
Selective Vector Control                             43.2    28.8    72.1
Medicated Mosquito Net Program                       20.4      0.7    21.1
Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration     10.5     6.8     17.3
Institutional Strengthening                           29.6     2.6    32.2
TOTAL BASELIE COSTS                                  139.9    43.3   183.2
Physical Contingencies                             13.6      4.3    18.0
Price Contingencies                                 0.1      2.6     2.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  153.6    50.2   203.9
*Numbers may not appear to add due to rounding.



I



Annex 4
Page I of 13
Economic Assessment
A. Introduction
1.    The medium-term objective of the IDA Credit is to create an enhanced and more effective
malaria control program (hereafter 'enhanced program'), characterized by a better balance of effective
malaria control interventions, and a strengthened and reoriented NMP. The enhanced program will
enable malaria control that is responsive to local needs. In the long-term it will reduce mortality and
morbidity from malaria, and alleviate its social and economic losses. The following economic analysis
examines the potential impact of the enhanced program to be made possible by the IDA Credit. The
analysis draws on frameworks developed by several authors (Jha et al, 1996; Barnum, 1995; Preker,
1996; and Hammer 1996), addressing the following issues: (i) the economic burden of malaria in India
(Section B); (ii) rationale for public sector involvement in malaria control (Section C); (iii) semi-
quantitative cost-effectiveness analysis of the enhanced program components (Section D); and (iv) the
role of economic analysis in program design and monitoring (Section E). The analysis of alternatives to
the enhanced program is presented in the main document (section 9).
2.     The major economic gains that are anticipated as a result of the enhanced program include:
(i) reductions in morbidity and mortality with consequent improvements in production (e.g., agriculture)
and household earnings and decreased household and community expenditures on anti-malarial drugs
and treatment; and (ii) decreased pollution of the environment and reduced negative impact of insecticide
use. These and other potential economic gains will be discussed further below.
B. Economic Burden of Malaria in India
3.    Current burden of malaria in India. There has been an increase in the number of malaria
cases and malaria deaths reported to the NMP since 1987 (Figure 1). It is difficult to estimate the extent
to which improvements in reporting have contributed to this increase. Provisional estimates for 1995
indicate that there were 2.80 million cases and 1,062 deaths, but these may be grossly under-reported.
The NMP estimates that approximately half of all cases are reported, and that there are now between 5
million and 6 million cases per year. Vital statistics surveys carried out by the Registrar General of India
attribute between 50,000 and 100,000 deaths to malaria each year (Sharma, 1996).
4.     Global Burden of Disease estimates. The latest Global Burden of Disease estimates for India
(Murray and Lopez, 1996) report malaria to have caused approximately 26,000 deaths in 1990 (i.e.,
0.28% of all deaths and 0.99% of deaths due to infectious and parasitic diseases). Males account for a
slightly higher percentage of the malaria deaths than do females (53% vs. 47%). The largest number of
deaths occur in the age group 5-14 years (26%) and approximately 84% of deaths due to malaria occur
before the age of 44 years. Malaria was responsible for the loss of approximately 1.2 million disability
adjusted life years (DALYs) in 1990 (i.e., 0.42% of all DALYs lost and 1.44 % of DALYs lost due to
infectious and parasitic diseases). Males account for a slightly higher percentage of DALYs lost due to
malaria. As with malaria deaths, the vast majority of DALYs lost (approximately 93%) were amongst
those aged 44 years or less. Thus, malaria has its greatest impact on young, potentially productive
members of society.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 13
Figure 1. Malaria Cases and Deaths in India Reported to NMP, 1985-95.
3 T                                          T 2000
1500
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2oo  a rf  lCases
I ~~ *Deaths
u                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500
0                                              0
85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94  95
Year
5.    Estimates of economic burden in India. Given the tremendous variability in estimates of
malaria morbidity and mortality, it is of no surprise that estimates of total economic loss in India are
correspondingly divergent. A simple study by Verma (1975) estimated that in 1972 (1.2 million cases
were detected that year), the total cost of malaria was 158.6 million Rs. (0.03% of the GDP). Verma
took into consideration only the expenditures on malaria control by NMP (Rs. 145 million) and loss of
wages of working adults (Rs. 13.6 million); he made no attempt to quantify economic impact beyond the
individual wage losses. Ray and Sharma's estimates (1984) showed that by 1983 (over 2 million cases
were detected), both the cost of the malaria control operations and the economic losses due to malaria
were a multiple of the figures mentioned by Verma. This is due, in part, to the advent of chloroquine
resistance in P. falciparum. A 1995 study by Sharma suggested that malaria in India was responsible for
economic losses between 0.5 and 1.0 billion USD annually (0.2 to 0.45% of GDP). It is not clear what
assumptions underlie this estimate.
6.    Mechanism of malaria's economic impact. The major elements of economic damage caused
by malaria are as follows:
(a)    Morbidity, loss of working capacity and wages during acute illness, reduction of working
capacity following the attack. Researchers have estimated that each case of malaria causes between 5
and 20 days of disability.
(b)    Loss or reduction of production (e.g., agriculture, mining) due to workers' absence or reduced
output. One study has found that farm families with malaria clear 60% less land than families who are
free of disease. Such an impact is likely to be important in India where agriculture accounts for
approximately 31 % of the GDP (World Bank, 1993).
(c)    Reduced export potential: India is the world's second largest grower of fruits and vegetables but
only one percent of production is commercially processed and only a few products are exported.
Agricultural exports are supposed to reach US$ 650 million by 2000 (Country Economic Memorandum,
World Bank, 1996) but exports of fruits and vegetables may be hampered by concerns about DDT from
theft and leakage into agriculture.
(d)    Individual expenditure on anti-malarial drugs and private treatment (see paragraph 9).



Annex 4
Page 3 of 13
(e)    Cost of treatment and hospitalization borne by the community. Prior to large-scale control, 16%
of all attendance and admissions at government hospitals and dispensaries in India were due to malaria
(Wernsdorfer and Wernsdorfer, 1988). Although comparable current data are not available, the cost of
malaria to the public health care system is presumably high.
(f)    Limitation of land use in areas with a high malariogenic potential. Sinton (1935) documented a
number of cases in India where malaria prevented expansion into new areas, with substantial losses in
foregone earnings. The anti-malarial approach proposed by Sinton on the basis of this work quickly led
to the reclamation of large stretches of very fertile, hitherto unusable land in India (Wernsdorfer and
Wernsdorfer, 1988).
(g)    Premature mortality from malaria before or during reproductive age; and other repercussions
such as school absenteeism, damage to the tourism industry, reduced capital flow and investment,
detrimental mental and psychological effects of the disease.
C. Rationale for Public Sector Involvement in Malaria Control
7.     Justification of public versus private investment. Justification of increased GOI spending on
malaria control requires that there be a basis for believing that the government can achieve a better
outcome than private markets can. Of the approximately 18 billion US$ spent on health in India
annually, public spending accounts for only 22%. This compares with over 50% public spending in the
developing countries of Africa and Latin America and 39% in Other Asia and Islands (1993 World
Development Report). Nevertheless, the GOI clearly plays an important role in public health spending.
Two main economic rationales justify and guide a government role in malaria control:
(a)    The poor cannot always afford health care that would improve their productivity and well-being.
Publicly-financed investment in the health of the poor can reduce poverty or alleviate its consequences.
(b)    Some actions that promote health are pure public goods or create large positive externalities.
Private markets would not produce them at all or would produce too little.
In Table 1, these rationale are summarized for each of the interventions to be offered under the enhanced
program. Institutional and Capacity Strengthening is not considered here as it is not an intervention in
itself, but an activity fundamental to the success of all other enhanced program interventions.
8.    Malaria is more common among the poor. Malaria disproportionately affects the poorest
members of society. By far the worst affected are the people living in tribal areas, who suffer the bulk of
infection with P. falciparum (a lethal form of malaria) and of mortality. As shown in the main
document, Table 2, the P. falciparum endemic districts chosen for initial phasing of activities under the
enhanced program are less urbanized (p<0.001), have significantly lower literacy rates (p<0.05), and
scheduled tribal peoples make up a significantly greater percentage of their total population (p<0.001),
and have slightly more females (p<0.001). Pregnant and lactating women and their children are at higher
risk of adverse consequences from malaria because of low immunity and co-existent anemia and
morbidity.
9.     The poor face a heavier economic burden for malaria treatment. Malaria or fever is one of
the most common reasons for visiting private practitioners, who are paid out-of-pocket. Data from the
National Sample Survey (NSS), collected in 1986-87, indicate that the burden of out-of-pocket spending
on health care falls disproportionately on the poor and that burden is mainly for primary illness care
(National Sample Survey Organization, 1989). On average, 5.0% and 2.3% of total household consumer
expenditure in rural and urban areas, respectively, were for health expenditures. The percentage of



Annex 4
Page 4 of 13
household spending on health was highest in the poorest income quintiles; 5.8% and 2.8% in rural and
urban areas, respectively. A 1993 household survey conducted by the National Council of Applied
Economic Research (NCAER) lends support to these findings (Sundar, 1995). The NCAER survey
found that the lower the household income, the higher the prevalence of self-reported serious
communicable diseases (including malaria). Furthermore, poorer households reported spending a higher
percentage of their annual household income on each communicable disease episode (the poorest group
reported spending greater than 0.9% of annual household income per disease episode while the richest
group reported spending less than 0.4%). This suggests that the burden of out-of-pocket spending on
malaria treatment is regressive and imposes a heavier burden on the poor.
Table 1. Justification of Public Versus Private Provision of Malaria Control Activities.
Component            Poverty Alleviation      Public Good or Positive    Justified Percentage of
Externalities        Government Finance
Selective Vector       - yes - improves health of    - pure public good     - high
Control               the poor
Integrated Early       - partial - increased access to  - positive externalities -  - low to medium
Detection and Prompt   basic health care for the poor  curing malaria prevents
Treatment                                         transmission of disease to
others
Medicated Mosquito    - partial - preferentially  - positive externalities -  - low to medium
Net Program            improves health of the poor   potential benefits for those
living in the same house or
community
Epidemic Response      - not directly             - pure public good        - high
and Intersectoral
Collaboration
Information, education  - partial - increased access to  - public good      - high
and communication      health education for the poor
10.    The potential for poverty alleviation under the enhanced program. Because the poor suffer
a greater burden of disease and spend a greater percentage of their expendable wealth on primary care
than the non-poor, increased access to free or low-cost treatment for malaria stands to produce increases
in their consumption of health care. This, in turn, raises their ability to be educated and their
productivity, assets that are necessary to rise from poverty.
11.    Public goods and externalities. Most of the anti-malaria activities (vector control, epidemic
planning and response, IEC) are public goods, i.e., people cannot be excluded from the service even if
they refuse to pay for it. Only the government can ensure provision of such services, which should be
almost entirely government subsidized. The other anti-malaria interventions (Early Detection and
Treatment and MMN program), although private goods, have significant positive externalities. For
example, curing a person of malaria also prevents transmission of the disease to others. In some cases,
community-wide use of treated nets results in a local reduction in the rate of biting, even on people
without nets (Lines, 1996b). In these situations, the person buying the good or service is unlikely to
recognize and be willing to pay for the positive benefits that others will incur as a result of the purchase.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 13
For this reason, governments are justified in financing these services, but not necessarily in delivering
them.
12.    A shift of GOI funding to areas of low priority is unlikely. Given the high degree of
transferability of resources within ministries of health, Bank assistance for malaria may result in a shift
of local resources to areas of lower priority ("fungability", Hammer, 1996). For example, GOI funds
may be transferred to urban, tertiary services. The risk of such reallocation of resources is minimal given
the recent spending patterns of MOHFW. As previously mentioned, the MOHFW has increased outlays
on malaria over the last five years. Funding of other public health programs has increased as well.
Under the Eighth Five Year Plan, the percentage of MOHFW expenditures allocated to public health
programs (including tuberculosis, leprosy, malaria and AIDS control) has increased steadily from 40% to
45%. Meanwhile, expenditures on allopathic hospitals and dispensaries have remained relatively
constant at approximately 9%. Even if there is reallocation within the MOHFW as a result of the
proposed IDA Credit, other public health programs are the most likely recipients.
D. Economic Analysis of the Enhanced Program
13.    The purpose of this section is to analyze the mix of interventions proposed under the enhanced
program. Following a brief discussion of the difficulties involved in using standard economic techniques
for analyzing this program is a semi-quantitative comparison of the costs and consequences of each of
the proposed activities.
14.    How can the most suitable mix of interventions be determined? Although the objectives of
the enhanced program have been pre-specified, the activities to be undertaken in meeting these
objectives have not. This is based on the recognition that the program will be most cost-effective if
activities are designed to respond to local needs and conditions. Hence, activities will vary from one
area to another. A number of factors may be taken into consideration in determining the appropriate mix
of publicly provided anti-malaria interventions for any one area. Ideally, the activities undertaken would
be determined by local needs, cultural acceptability, sustainability, environmental safety, and locally
derived cost-consequence data (which should theoretically take all of the aforementioned factors into
consideration). Political concerns and history (usually in the form of outdated practices held over from
past eras) also play a significant role in the decision-making process.
15.    Problems with available cost-consequence data. In reality, the cost-consequence data
necessary for informed decision making is rarely available. Data on the cost-effectiveness, cost-utility,
and cost-benefit of anti-malaria interventions have been collected for many countries (Table 2), and
several reviews of these data exist (Barlow and Grobar, 1986; Mills, 1991; Hammer, 1993; Najera and
others, 1993). "Indeed, the differences (in results) between the studies are so marked that it would be
hard to make any generalizations about them at all" (Najera and others, 1993). There are important
reasons for substantial variation in average cost per unit output between studies: (a) differences in the
ecological, epidemiological, and social characteristics between areas; (b) wide variations over time
within areas of the incidence and severity of malaria; (c) variations in the organizational structure of
control programs; and (d) differences in the intensity of application of the interventions being appraised.
Additionally, differences in data quality, the assumption used in the analyses, the definition of relevant
costs, the length of the study period, and the discount rate applied all contribute to the variation. It is
recognized that in the case of malaria "local information is needed to judge which interventions should
have priority" (World Bank, 1993).



Annex 4
Page 6 of 13
16.    Support for a combination of anti-malaria interventions. Barlow and Grobar (1986) suggest
that the great uncertainty surrounding cost estimates argues that a combination of policies need to be
used in parasitic-disease control programs. For malaria, at least, a combination of policies is desirable
even with accurate information, because of diminishing returns from any one instrument (Najera and
others, 1993). There is reason to expect diminishing marginal returns to most anti-malaria activities. For
example, the cost of vector control activities will rise with expansion as a result of decreasing densities
of vectors and of people. Costs of active case detection and treatment will rise with decreasing
frequency of cases and the eventual need for IEC campaigns, which are costly. Malaria control projects
funded by The World Bank and other agencies support the use of multiple interventions. Successful
projects have depended upon use of multiple interventions, both to offer complementary methods and to
minimize the risk of failure of the overall program (Table 3).
17.    Available cost-consequence data for India. Table 4 attempts to summarize and compare the
costs and consequences of malaria control activities currently being carried out by NMP. Where
quantitative data is lacking, qualitative information has been provided. The operating costs of anti-
malaria activities within the health sector were compiled by the NMP (Sharma et al., 1996). The
breakdown of component costs (or breakdown of costs for each activity), average annual costs, and
recurrent costs (as a percentage of the total cost of each activity) were derived from expenditure reports
for the fiscal years 1991-92 to 1994-95. The consequences of anti-malaria activities are divided into
effectiveness (or consequences incurred by the intended target population) and externalities. The
effectiveness is a function of efficacy (i.e., how well it works at preventing malaria cases and deaths in
an experimental setting), patient and provider compliance (including acceptability of the intervention to
the target population, or cultural acceptability) and coverage (i.e., the "institutional capacity" available to
deliver the intervention to the target population). Losses include negative changes in physical, social and
emotional functioning that result from the intervention. Very little empirically derived data on
consequences is available for India. The externalities of an intervention are the gains and losses that are
incurred outside the intended target population. What follows is a discussion of the costs and
consequences for each activity. A more thorough assessment of cost-effectiveness needs not only more
robust costing, but also reliable data on effectiveness. It is hoped that concurrent evaluation of resources
used and effectiveness achieved will make it possible to assess cost-effectiveness as the Progran
implements its revised strategies.
Indoor Residual Spraying
18.    Per capita costs of indoor residual spraying. As can be seen in Table 3, the cost per capita of
indoor residual spraying varies tremendously, depending upon the insecticide being used. BHC and
DDT are the cheapest, at just under 10 Rs. per capita per annum. It costs almost twice as much to use
Lindane (Lindane has been introduced on a trial basis as a substitute for BHC which will be phased out
from 1997), 4 times as much to use malathion, and 5 times as much to use deltamethrin or one of the
other synthetic pyrethroids.
19.    Effectiveness of indoor residual spraying. The NMP cites three deterrents to the effectiveness
of indoor residual spraying: poor operational coverage, inability of the states to increase the wages of
spraying staff (presumably resulting in reduced provider compliance and poor coverage), and
development of vector resistance. An. culicifacies is the major rural vector of malaria. In a number areas
in India, An. culicifacies is now resistant to DDT, BHC and Malathion (resistance refers to below 80%
mortality). Adults of An. stephensi, mostly an urban vector, are found resistant to DDT and BHC.
Studies performed in 1991 found mortality of An. culicifacies to be much higher with the synthetic
pyrethroids cyfluthrin and deltamethrin (mortality varied from 73 to 100%) than DDT or Malathion
(NMP Annual Report, 1991). Unfortunately, high efficacy of pyrethroids in an experimental setting may



Annex 4
Page 7 of 13
not translate to high effectiveness in the field. In fact, if operational coverage and provider and
beneficiary compliance are no better for the synthetic pyrethroids than for other insecticides, then the
incremental benefit resulting from their use may not warrant the significant incremental cost.
Table 2. Cost-Effectiveness and Benefit-Cost Ratios of Malaria Control.
Country             Author (year of    Cost per case    Cost per death    Cost-utility     Benefit-cost
publication)     prevented (1987   averted (1987       (1987          ratio (1987
US$)            US$)         US$/DALY or           US$)
QALY)
RESIDUAL INSECTICIDE SPRAYING
Sri Lanka              Barlow (1968)               --              78               3                146
Paraguay               Ortiz (1968)               60               --               71               3.6
India                  Cohn (1973)                 2               --               7                 --
Indonesia              Gandahusada and          83-102             --            275-618             --
others (1984)
BED NETS
Cameroon               Carnevale and               --              --               --              -1.4
Cossemans (1985)
The Gambia             Picard and others          -28             -188             -7.90              --
(1993)
Hypothetical           WHO (1996)                 --               --             -7-14              --
developing country
CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS
Hypothetical           WHO (1996)                 --               --              -28               --
developing country
Thailand               Griffith and others        --               --               --               6.5
(1971)
HYPOTHETICAL VACCINE
Hypothetical           WHO (1996)                 --               --            -0.40-24            --
developing country
COMBINED INTERVENTIONS
Pakistan               Khan (1966)                 --              --               --               4.9
Greece                 Livandas and               --               --               --               17.3
Athanassatos (1963)
Iraq                   Niazi (1969)                -                                                 6.0
India                  Ramaiah (1980)              --              --               --               9.3
Philippines            San Pedro (1967/68)         --              --               --               2.4
Sudan                  Democratic Republic        --               --               --               4.6
of Sudan (1975)
Liberia                Hedman and others          14               --               143              --
(1979)
Thailand               Kaewsonthi (1989)         27-74                            90-760              --
Nepal                  Mills (1987)              1-172           3-255              --
Nigeria                Molineaux and              259              --           1,500-2,650           --
Gramiccia (1980)
Developing countries   Walsh and Warren            --             990               34                --
(1979)
The Gambia             Picard and others          -19             -257             -11               --
(1993)
India                  Sharma (1996)               --              --               --               -22
India                  Indian Institute of        --               --               --9
Management
Brazil                 World Bank (1996)           --              --              -258             --21.8
-- Not available
SOURCE: Barlow and Grobar (1986); Mills (1987); Hammer (1993); Najera and others (1993); Carnevale and
Cossemans (1985); Picard and others (1993); WHO (1996); World Bank (1996); author's calculations.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 13
Table 3. Malaria Control Projects financed by the World Bank and USAID
Project                Amount in 1995 USSM for             Interventions               Impact
malaria control activities
(and dates)
Brazil Northwest Region Integrated   20.3                      Indoor residual spraying, case     Unsuccessful
Development Program--First Phase:    (1982 to 1988)            detection and treatment, operational
Health Project (2061-BR)                                       research
Indonesia Provincial Health Project  65.9                      Indoor residual spraying, source   Successful
(2235-IND)                           (1983 to 1989)            reduction, biological control
Brazil Amazon Basin Malaria Control    186.6                   Early detection and prompt         Highly
Project (3072-BR)                    (1989 to 1994)            treatment, selective vector control,   successful
source reduction, IEC
Cambodia Disease Control and Health   -4.0                      Early detection and prompt        N/A
Development Project (4034-XX)        (1997 to 2002)            treatment, medicated mosquito nets,
management and supervision
Vietnam National Health Support      -24.4                      Early detection and prompt        Pending
Project (4838-XX)                    (1996 to 2002)            treatment, medicated mosquito nets,
program management, training,
communication, research
Lao PDR Health System Reform and     6.7                        Early detection and prompt        Pending
Malaria Control Project (13107-LA)   (1995 to 2000)            treatment, selective vector control,
medicated mosquito nets, research
Senegal Endemic Disease Control      -5                        Case-containment, epidemiological   Pending
Project (SN-PE-41576)                (1997 to 2002)            surveillance, vector control,
training, chemoprophylaxis for
pregnant women and migrants, IEC.
Sri Lanka Health Services Project (LK-   -3.6                   Early detection and prompt        Pending
PA-10526)                            (1997 to 2002)            treatment, selective vector control,
medicated mosquito nets
El Salvador (Financed by USAID)      N/A                       Early detection and prompt         Highly
treatment, selective vector control,   successful
source reduction
Mexico (Financed by USAID)           N/A                       Early detection and prompt         Successful
treatment, selective vector control,
IEC, research
20.      Changes in future use of indoor residual spraying. According to the original enhanced
program proposal, the choice of insecticide and its spraying will be based on new criteria: Selection of
insecticide would take into consideration cost, acceptability by the communities, vector susceptibility
and transmission dynamics. Spraying would therefore be impact oriented, more targeted and save
resources. Nevertheless, it is important to closely monitor the effectiveness of indoor residual spraying
in field trials, which should express outcome in terms of malaria cases and deaths prevented.



Table 4. Costs and ConsequLences of Current NMP Activities.
Component                                       Costs                                                                        Consequences
X ~ ....................I....................................................................... ...........................  ......................................................................... ..........................................  ......................................................................
Annual Operating   Component Costs (%), Average                              Effectiveness                                      Externalities
(1996 Rs./capita)    Annual Costs in 1996 Rs.) &
Recurrent Costs (% of Total)
Selective V'ector Control
Indoor Residual Spraving
DD I                                 9.91                                          63%    - poor efficacy of DDT, BI IC & Malathion due      - Negative DDT &  lI IC accumiiulate in
BHC                                  9.97                                          20%      to resistance                                      biological systems
Lindane                             17.98                                           0%    - pyrethroids are highly efficacious                - Malathion highly toxic in large doses
Malathion                           36.12                                           7%    - poor compliance as beneficiaries resistant to    - pyrethroids safe for mammals but toxic to fish
Pyrethroids:                                                                                having homes sprayed                             - hastening the development of resistance has
Deltamethirin                     44.64                                  Averagel0%    - poor operational coverage                            negative consequences
Cylluthrini                       44.48           Average annual costs R 1,050
Lambdacylialothrin                42.85           million Rs. Recurrent costs   97%
Anliti-jary. Activitics
Malaria larvicidal Oil             20.38                                           3%    - eflicacy is not established                        Negativc: fenthion is hazardous to mammals
Temephos                             7.62                                          14%    - anecdotal evidence suggests that source            while temephos is the safest chemical
Fenthiion                            8.24                                         34%       reduction and biolarvicides are the most           currently in use
B. fltringiensis                    23.68                                         49%       effective, while larvivorous fish are the least  - Bli and B. sphaericus thought to be very safe
B. sphaericms                       29.17                                       limited     effective                                        - larvivorous fish may have an adverse impact
Larvivorous Fish                     NA                                         limited   - compliance with source reduction may be poor       on other fish species as well as on other
Source reduction                     7.10                                       limited                                                        mosquito predators
Average annual costs m 80 million                                                        - Posiive protects neighboring communities
Rs. Recurrent costs z 97%
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment
ABER 10/o, SPR 2.5%                 3.18           - breakdown not available             - microscopic diagnosis delayed to the point of    - Negative potential for transmission of blood-
ABER 200/o, SPR 5%                   4.96                                                   being useless                                      bome diseases
ABER 300/o, SPR 10%                  8.24           Average annual costs z 340 million    - "no organized referral system"                   - PoItivecuring malaria prevents transmission
ABER 401/6, SPR 20%/                15.12           Rs. Recufent costs -. 74%             - efficacious drugs exist                            of disease to others
- coverage is poor due to ineffective distribution
IMedicated Mosquito Net Program is treated with:
Deltamethrin                      26.20                                                - efficacy against major Indian vectors has yet to    - Negative pyrcthroids safe for mamimiials but
Cyfluthrin                        32.65           - breakdown not available              be experimentally tested                            very toxic to fish
Lambdacyhalothrin                 23.70                                                - acceptability varies from one area to another     - widespread use of pyrethroids iisay hasten the
Average annual costs z 0 Rs.         - pyrethroids kill nuisance insects resulting in      developnient of resistance
better compliance                                - Positive: potential benefits for thiose living in
the same room, house or coimiuinitity
IEC                           - not available       Averase annual costs = 31 million
Rs.  ecurrent costs  88%
>o
or:
go 
o0 =
_-x



Annex 4
Page 10 of 13
21.    Effectiveness of anti-larval activities. Studies performed in many districts in India in 1991
found very high larval mortality rates (NMP Annual Report, 1991) with the chemical larvicides
Temephos and Fenthion. It is reported that the bacterial larvicides are just as effective and have the
added benefit of a long residual effect (2 to 4 weeks). Papers from different geographical and ecological
areas report poor or no control of mosquito larvae (if not an increase in larval numbers) after the stocking
of 'mosquito fish' (Gratz, 1996). The problem with studies of all anti-larval interventions is that they
have not looked at important outcomes such as decreases in the adult mosquito population or decreases
in malaria cases and deaths. According to Najera and others (1993), anti-larval interventions are feasible
only with easily identifiable breeding places and are thus of "limited use." "Source reduction techniques
such as drainage and land management techniques can have significant effects in mainly urban areas,
planned human settlements, or economic development projects, but they cannot be a significant part of
widespread control operations."
22.    Recommendations for future use of Anti-Larval Activities. The data presented here support
NMP's proposal to increase the use of source reduction and biolarvicides, especially in high-risk urban
areas. Serious consideration must be given to increasing expenditures for the breeding and distribution
of larvivorous fish, which may have an adverse effect on other fish species as well as on other mosquito
predators.
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment
23.    Per capita costs of integrated early detection and prompt treatment. Data from Table 4 on
the cost per capita of early detection and prompt treatment is illuminating in several ways. The annual
per capita cost of early detection and prompt treatment is around 3 Rs. for an area in which the annual
blood examination rate (ABER) is 10% and the slide positivity rate (SPR) is 2.5% (suggesting a
minimum annual parasite index of 2.5/1,000). In contrast, the annual cost per capita of spraying this
same area would be 10 Rs. for DDT and 45 Rs. for deltamethrin. This difference between the two
approaches suggests that considerable intensification of case detection and treatment would be possible
before costs would exceed those of spraying. For example, doubling the frequency of case detection
would cost an additional 3 Rs. per capita per annum compared to the cost per capita of introducing
spraying of Rs. 10 for DDT and 45 for deltamethrin. Here, intensifying could be cost-effective if it
reduces the need for spraying. On the other hand, the annual per capita cost of early detection and
prompt treatment is around 15 Rs. for an area in which the ABER is 40% and the SPR is 20%
(suggesting a minimum API of 80/1,000). Here, it could be cost-effective to spray if it reduces the need
for early detection and prompt treatment. Early detection and prompt treatment can similarly be
compared to anti-larval interventions. The logical choice of intervention is dependent in part on the
incidence of malaria in the area.
24.    The data in Table I also suggest, as expected, that the cost per capita increases as the total
number of blood slides collected and examined increases and the total number of cases treated increases.
What would be more illuminating, perhaps, is data on the cost per capita as the ABER is varied for a
population with constant API. This would more clearly show the relative cost of different strategies of
case detection (active vs. passive).
25.    Effectiveness of case detection. NMP continues to use active case detection as the main
mechanism to diagnose and treat malaria. The consequence of collecting a thick blood film for every
fever case is that malaria microscopists are overwhelmed with negative slides, the examination of which
not only takes most of their time but could also distract them and cause them to miss positives. The
diagnosis is, most often, late, so it cannot help in the diagnosis of the cause of fever, and the radical



Annex 4
Page II of 13
treatment of positives, when offered, may no longer be needed. Perhaps one of the reasons for the
continued emphasis on active case detection is the relatively weak network for passive case detection and
referral. "At present there is no organized referral system. Serious cases of malaria are not attended by
the PHC doctor and there are no guidelines at the PHC level." (NMP Project Proposal, 1995).
26.    Effectiveness of treatment. A national drug policy for the treatment of malaria was recently
developed (May 1995). Although the problem of P. falciparum resistance to the most commonly used
anti-malarial drug, Chloroquine, is increasing, resistance to drugs like mefloquine and halofantrine is
limited. The Project Proposal cites the breakdown in the drug distribution network as one of the major
causes of malaria outbreaks and epidemic situations; "Deaths due to malaria are mainly confined to areas
with shortage of drugs."
27.    Recommendations for future use of integrated early detection and prompt treatment.
Under the proposed Project, 85% of expenditures on early detection and prompt treatment would be to
establish a system of MLFs and provide microscopes to PHCFs (Rs. 789 of 918 million over five years).
Because of the current inefficiencies in the system, this strategy should first be tested on a pilot basis.
Perhaps NMP should consider redirecting funds towards early detection and prompt treatment activities
that may have higher yield: IEC of communities and peripheral personnel, integration of private health-
care providers (including traditional healers), and development of guidelines for the selective use of
diagnostic tests. Finally, it is important to establish routine monitoring of both diagnostic and drug
policies to ensure both quality control and efficacy/effectiveness.
Medicated Mosquito Net Program
28.    Cost of medicated mosquito nets. Data from the NMP suggests that the annual per capita cost
of mosquito nets (Table 4) varies from Rs. 23.70 to Rs. 32.65, depending on the insecticide used to
impregnate the net (note that this estimate assumes 60% coverage, or 3 MMNs for a family of five; see
Annex I for details). The annual cost per capita of medicated mosquito nets is slightly less expensive
than indoor residual spraying with malathion or any of the synthetic pyrethroids. It is however, more
than twice the cost of indoor residual spraying with DDT or BHC and at least 1.5 times the cost of early
detection and prompt treatment at any of the ABERs and SPRs given.
29.    Effectiveness of medicated mosquito nets. The efficacy of medicated mosquito nets against
An. stephensi (the main vector in all urban areas and an important vector in some rural areas) and An.
culicifacies (the main vector in most plain areas of India) has yet to be experimentally tested.
Experience in other parts of the world gives cause for optimism. For example, a recent meta-analysis of
10 bed-net trials comparing permethrin-impregnated bed-nets with non-bed-net controls, found a
summary incidence rate ratio for acquiring malaria of 0.497 (95% Cl = 0.417-0.592, Choi and others,
1995). Beneficiary compliance with this intervention is also an issue. A feasibility study on the use of
medicated mosquito nets among 'Gond' tribal communities of Madhya Pradesh (Singh and others, 1994)
found that, "in spite of continuing health education, not more than 20% could be motivated to use nets."
Meanwhile, preliminary data from a trial in a high P. falciparum incidence area of rural Orissa shows
that 85% of families have purchased at least one mosquito net (at a subsidized price of Rs. 50) in the first
two years of the program (Ian Pett, British Council). Numerous studies of pyrethroid treated medicated
mosquito nets in other countries have shown high mortality of nuisance insects, such as bedbugs. This
suppression of nuisance has led to a better acceptance (Curtis 1994). Evidence from other countries
suggests that community participation is necessary to make this intervention effective or sustainable.
30.    Recommendations for future use of medicated mosquito nets. Initial medicated mosquito net
activities should focus on: field trials of efficacy in a variety of epidemiological contexts, exploring



Annex 4
Page 12 of 13
channels of distribution, exploring the cost-effectiveness and distributive effects of partial and full
subsidies. Further extension of medicated mosquito nets to other areas could be decided based on the
outcome of successful pilot studies.
Other Components of the Enhanced Program
31.    Economic issues related to epidemic planning and rapid response. The sooner an epidemic
can be detected, the cheaper it will be to prevent or stop. The cost of information collection is low
relative to the cost of launching large-scale emergency action. For epidemic-prone areas, investments in
preparedness and a response mechanism are sound from an economic perspective.
32.    Economic issues related to institutional strengthening. It is very difficult to quantify the costs
per capita and the effectiveness of the components of institutional strengthening (training, civil works,
and decision management system). However, investments in these components are crucial in order to
optimize the cost-effectiveness of the enhanced program interventions. Needs assessments are being
conducted to determine how investments in institutional strengthening can most effectively be targeted.
Other Economic Issues of Importance
33.    Sustainability. The IDA Credit aims to reduce malaria morbidity and mortality and to keep
these parameters at acceptably low levels. Hence, it is of great importance that the GOI be able to
sustain enhanced program activities beyond the period of IDA financing. Table 4 shows the approximate
percentage of current NMP costs that are recurrent for each program activity. Under the enhanced
program, spending on all components will increase to some degree (see Figure 3) with corresponding
increases in recurrent costs. Unless alternative sources of funding are found, GOI will be responsible for
either cutting back program activities or taking on these increased recurrent costs beyond the period of
IDA financing.
34.   Recurrent costs are relatively low for the MMN program (the mosquito nets themselves are 68%
of total component costs and are classified as capital costs), suggesting that this component will be easy
to sustain, from a purely financial perspective. The recurrent costs of early detection and treatment are
higher, due primarily to the travel allowances paid to MLFs (60% of costs of this component). It is
anticipated that these travel allowances will gradually be taken up by Village Panchayat, which would
greatly reduce the burden on GOI. Information, education and communication costs are largely recurrent
due to the expense of delivering messages by traditional and folk media, radio, newspaper and television.
Selective Vector Control and Epidemic Planning and Response costs are almost purely recurrent, largely
attributable to insecticides and operational costs of spraying. Taking into consideration these activities
and Institutional Strengthening, approximately 60% (Rs. 714 million per annum) of total program costs
are recurrent.
35.   Impact on the Private Sector. What exists in terms of a private sector for the provision of anti-
malaria goods and services (e.g., medicated mosquito nets, diagnostic and treatment services)? What
will happen to the quantity and price of goods provided by the private sector with the enhancement of
Program activities? It has been suggested that as many as 50% of malaria cases use non-governmental
sources of treatment (p. 5, Annex 6, ODA Report). Medicated mosquito nets appear to be available in
most large towns and in a few places they are also available in rural markets. If a social marketing
project sells a novel branded product at subsidized prices (in this case medicated mosquito nets), one
might expect this to have a negative effect on sales of existing un-subsidized brands - indeed, the public
subsidy on price and on brand-specific advertising could be described as unfair competition. Social
marketing organizations tend to admit that competing brands may suffer a loss of market share, but claim
that this is more than compensated by an increase in the overall market volume, so that on balance these



Annex 4
Page 13 of 13
competing brands enjoy greater sales (Lines, 1996b). It is impossible to say what the impact of the
enhanced program will be on private distributors of anti-malaria medications.
E. How are the Findings of the Economic Assessment Reflected in Project Design and Monitoring?
- In order to address diminishing returns from any one intervention, the enhanced program will make use
of a combination of anti-malaria interventions.
- Activities undertaken by NMP will be determined by local needs, cultural acceptability, sustainability,
environmental safety, and, where available, locally derived cost-consequence data.
- Evaluation of resources used and effectiveness will be conducted as part of the enhanced program.
This will make it possible to assess cost-effectiveness as the Program implements its revised strategies.
- Use of indoor residual spraying will gradually be reduced as a result of the increasing costs and
decreasing effectiveness of this intervention.
- The extent of indoor residual spraying and the insecticide to be used will be decided for each locale
based on careful consideration of available information.
- Assuming a high benefit/cost ratio of source reduction and biolarvicides, NMP will increase these
activities in high-risk urban areas.
- Given the paucity of good data on the effectiveness of larvivorous fish, studies of this intervention will
be undertaken.
- A number of methods will be employed to increase the cost-effectiveness of early detection and prompt
treatment: IEC of communities and peripheral personnel, integration of private health-care providers
(including traditional healers), and development of guidelines for the selective use of diagnostic tests.
- In order to ensure efficacy/effectiveness, routine monitoring of both diagnostic and drug policies will
be undertaken.
- Medicated mosquito net activities will be introduced gradually into the Program. During the first year
of the enhanced program, these activities will include: field trials of efficacy in a variety of
epidemiological contexts, exploring channels of distribution, exploring the cost-effectiveness and
distributive effects of partial and full subsidies. Further extension of medicated mosquito nets to other
areas will be decided based on the outcome of pilot studies.
- In order to avoid costly full-blown epidemics, investments in preparedness and a response mechanism
will be made in epidemic-prone areas.
- The legal agreement will draw upon the economic analysis in justifying certain assurances, such as
local procurement for the mosquito net program and a separate disbursement category for different types
of adulticides and larvicides.






Annex 5
Financial Summary
Operational Period
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Project Costs (US$ Million, Including
Contingencies)
Investment Costs                  16.6    48.2    47.2    43.4    30.0
Recurrent Costs                    1.4      5.0 5.2          3.7      3 1
Total                      18.0    53.2    52.4    47.1    33.1
Financing Sources (% of Total
Costs)
IDA                               83%      84%      81%     81%      74%
Government of India               17%      160      19%      l 9%    260%
Total                     100%    100%    100%    100%    100%






Annex 6
Page I of 8
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In USS Million Equivalent)
Proaarapnt Method
lmtiiouai   N ti.al      6imalted
Comptid    CnpetIVe IateluoaI                  Comiulting
Bidding    Biddisa     Biib7        Ot*er     Service    N.D.F.     Total
CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works                               -        4.1            -         1.8         -          -       5.9
GOODS                                                (3 7)                   (1.6)                          (5.3)
Fumiture                                  -        0.1            -         0.4         -         -       0.5
(0.1)                  (0.3)                           (0.4)
PCR Equipment                             -           -           -           -         -       0.3       0.3
Equipment                               8.1        2.3            -         1.2         -         -      11.5
(7.3)     (2.1)                    (1.0)                         (10.4)
Vehicles                                2.4          -            -         0.6         -         -       3.0
(2.1)                              (0.5)                          (2.7)
Lab & Other Supplies                      -         1.7         0.6         3.5         -          -       5.8
(1.4)      (0.5)       (2.8)                           (4.6)
Drugs (inci D.E.C.)                       -        0.5          1.0         0.2         -         -        1.6
(0.5)      (0.9)       (0.2)                           (1.5)
Cloroquine                                -           -                 -               -      13.3      13.3
Medicated Mosquito Nets
(MMNs)                                    -        6.1            -         1.5                    -      7.6
(.5.6)                  (1.4)                          (7.0)
Pyrethroids                            70.8        4.8                        -                   -      75.6
(60.2)     (4.1)                                                 (64.3)
Bti                                     1.3        2.9            -           -                   -       4.2
(1.2)     (2.7)                                                   (3.9)
Larvivorous Fish                          -           -           -         0.7         -         -       0.7
CONSULTANTS AND                                                              (0.6)                          (0.6)
Project Preparation &
Implementation (nci Training &
Workshops)                                -           -           -         5.8       1.4         -       7.2
(5.8)     (1.4)               (7.2)
Publicity & IEC                           -           -           -        10.8       1.2         -      12.0
(10.8)     (1.2)              (12.0)
Operational Research                      -           -           -         1.4                   -        1.4
(1.4)                         (1.4)
Institutional Development (incl
Consultants & Professional
Services)                                 -          -            -         4.1      14.2                18.4
(4.1)    (14.2)              (18.4)
Preparation and Health Risk
Assessments                               -           -           -         0.7       0.3          -       1.0
(0.7)     (0.3)               (1.0)
NGO Services (inci MMN
Program)                                  -          -            -        10.7       2.7         -      13.4
(10.7)     (2.7)              (13.4)
Laboratory Studies                                   -            -           -         -       2.2       2.2
MISCELLANEOU
Incremental Operating Costs               -           -           -        17.6         -         -      17.6
(I0.5)                        (10.5)
Maintenance                               -          -                      0.7                   -       0.7
(0.3)                         (0.3)
Total                                  32.5       22.5          1.5        61.7      19.8      15.7    203.9
f70.8)    (20.1)        (1.4)      (52.8)    (19.8)             (164.8)



Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table B (Part I): Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                  Contract Value               Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                     (Threshold)                   Method             Prior Review
1. Works
Civil Works          Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding US$1,800,000 may
be executed by:
(i) direct contracting upto US$500,000; or    Direct    Post review only
Contracting
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of 3   Post review only
quotations obtained from at least three  Bids
qualified contractors eligible under the
guidelines; or
(iii) unit/piece rate systems to qualified  Rate Contracts   Post review only
contractors or Registered NGOs (or other
beneficiary associations); or
(iv) by Force Account as a last resort in a  Force Account   Post review only
manner satisfactory to the Association upto
US$500,000.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of National  First three works contracts
over US$20,000 per contract, up to an  Competitive      above US$300,000 by prior
aggregate not exceeding US$4, 100,000.  Bidding         review. All others by post
review.
2. Goods
(a) Furniture,       US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an  National Shopping Post review only
equipment, laboratory  aggregate not exceeding US$6,000,000  Procedures
and other supplies,    equivalent                            (includes DGS&D
drugs, biocides,                                             Rate Contracts)
larivorous fish
US$300,000 or less per contract, up to an    National  First three goods contracts
aggregate not exceeding US$7,500,000  Competitive      regardless of value by prior
equivalent                            Bidding          review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
Up to an aggregate not exceeding       Limited         For each of the first LIB
US$1,600,000 equivalent for dipsticks  International   contracts, prior review in
(supplies) and artemisinine injections (drugs) Bidding  accordance with paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
Over $300,000 equivalent per contract  International   For all ICB contracts, by
Competitive     prior review in accordance
Bidding         with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
Table B (Part 1): Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                  Contract Value              Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                     (Threshold)                  Method             Prior Review
2. Goods (continued)
(b) Vehicles         US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an    National Shopping Post review only
aggregate not exceeding US$600,000    Procedures
equivalent                            (includes DGS&D
Rate Contracts)
Over $100,000 equivalent per contract  International   For all ICB contracts, by
Competitive     prior review in accordance
Bidding         with paragraphs 2 and 3 or
Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
(c) Medicated        US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an  National Shopping Post review only
Mosquito Nets (MMNs) aggregate not exceeding US$1,500,000  (includes DGS&D
equivalent                            Rate Contracts)
US$300,000 or less per contract       National         Post review only
Competitive
Bidding
Over $300,000 equivalent per contract  International   For all ICB contracts, by
Competitive     prior review in accordance
Bidding         with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
(d) Pyrethroids      US$ 1 00,000 or less per contract, up to an   National Shopping Post review only
(Insecticide)        aggregate not exceeding US$4,800,000  Procedures
equivalent
Over US$100,000 per contract, up to an    International  For all ICB contracts, by
aggregate not exceeding US$70,800,000    Competitive  prior review in accordance
equivalent                           Bidding          with paragraphs 2 and 3 or
Appendix I to the Guidelines.
3. Services
(a) All Procurement                                       Quality and Cost  Prior review of all consultant
Agent Contracts, NGO                                      based Selection   contracts shall be governed
Contracts or                                              (QCBS)           by the provisions of
Professional Services                                                      paragraphs (i) and (ii) below:
Contracts estimated to
exceed $200,000
(b) Professional     US$200,000 or less per contract, up to an   QCBS with Short  (i) Contracts for individuals
Services Contracts, IEC aggregate not exceeding US$5,500,000  List Comprising    or firms estimated to cost
Contracts, and NGO    equivalent                          Domestic Firms    US$50,000 or more, but less
contracts over                                            only - (applies if  than US$200,000, the
US$100,000 up to                                          foreign consultants procedures set forth in
US$200,000 equivalent                                     not likely to be  paragraphs 1, 2 (other than
interested.)    the second subparagraph
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to
the Consultant Guidelines.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
Table B (Part 1): Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                  Contract Value               Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                     (Threshold)                   Method             Prior Review
3. Services (continued)
(c) (i); Professional    US$ 100,000 or less per contract, up to an   QCBS with Short  (ii) Contracts for individuals
Services contracts less  aggregate not exceeding US$1,400,000  List Comprising    or firms estimated to cost
than $100,000        equivalent                            Domestic Firms    more than US$200,000
only             equivalent, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 1,2
(c) (ii), NGO Contracts US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an   Selection in  (other than the third
& Operational Research aggregate not exceeding US$10,700,000    accordance with   subparagraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Activities less than  equivalent                           para 3.14 of the    Appendix 1 to the
$100,000                                                   Consultant        Consultant Guidelines shall
Guidelines,      apply.
including single
source selection for
relevant tasks.
Selection criteria for
NGOs and
Operational
Research will
follow project-
specific guidelines
agreed with IDA
and will be noted in
the PIP
(d) Spray workers,    US$10,000 or less per contract, up to an    Hiring of Service
individual consultants  aggregate not exceeding US$18,100,000    Delivery
and individual       equivalent                            Contractors - (as
researchers                                                noted in para 3.19
of the Consultant
Guidelines, and for
spray workers and
contracts for
individual
consultants.)
(e) Publicity Services, Up to an aggregate not exceeding   Single- Source    Post review only
training and workshops US$14,200,000 equivalent            Selection as there
are no alternative
providers, under
terms satisfactory
to IDA and noted
in the PIP



Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
Table B (Part I): Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                  Contract Value              Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                     (Threshold)                  Method             Prior Review
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental operating  Incremental operating costs and maintenance
costs and maintenance  estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding US$18,400,000
may be executed by:
(i) direct contracting; or           Direct           Post review only
Contracting
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of 3   Post review only
quotations obtained from at least three  Bids
qualified contractors eligible under the
guidelines; or
(iii) unit/piece rate systems to qualified  Rate Contracts    Post review only
contractors or Registered NGOs (or other
beneficiary associations) or
(iv) by Force Account as a last resort in a   Force Account    Post review only
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Table B (Part II): Details of Procurement Methods and Links to Project Components
1.     Works.
Civil works over US$20,000 would be for the National Malaria Control Program (NMP) and
Malaria Research Centre (MRC) buildings, with detailed architectural design, and competitive selection
of design and construction firms.
Civil works belong to the Institution Strengthening (IS) component. Civil works under
US$20,000 would be for small extensions to enable computerization at district offices. The
specifications for these would be made centrally, and the local district would procure these under
procedures specified in the table above.
2.     Goods
(a)    Furniture, equipment and laboratory supplies belong to the IS and Early Detection and Prompt
Treatment (EDPT) components. These involve local purchase of desks, chairs and other furniture, office
supplies and related materials.
Drugs belong to the EDPT and Selective Vector Control (SVC) components and involve local
purchases of DEC, local biocides for use in water sources and larvivours fish procured from local fish
hatcheries. Larger contracts for dipsticks and artemisinine are available only from a selected number of
international manufactures, and thus LIB would be used. Large purchases of any furniture, equipment,
drugs and biological would be procured centrally by NMP using ICB.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
Table B (Part LI): Details of Procurement Methods and Links to Project Components (continued)
2.    Goods (continued)
(b)    Vehicles belong to the EDPT, SVC and Epidemic Planning and Rapid Response (ERIC)
components. Smaller vehicle orders from state or district levels would be procured under national
shopping, following specifications from the NMP by national shopping or DSG&D rate contracts. The
latter provide cost savings comparable to that by national shopping. Large purchases of any goods (over
US$300,000) would be procured centrally by NMP using ICB.
(c)    Nets for the Medicated Mosquito Nets Program (MMN) component would be procured by state
and district levels from local manufactures if they are small amounts. Local selection is important as it
improves the acceptability and use of these nets, and because different areas may have different
preferences. The standards for these nets would be set by NMP, based upon operational research and
quality evaluation of the entire net program after two years. Larger contracts would use NCB or ICB,
and would be procured by NMP directly.
(d)    Synthetic pyrethroids belongs to SVC and ERIC components and would be procured by NMP.
Small start-up and interim needs would be procured by NMP in accordance with WHO-set standards.
Larger contracts would be procured by NMP using ICB.
3.    Services
(a)    Large services contracts (above US$200,000) would be for the design and construction of NMP
and MRC buildings, for the management information and geographic information systems elements
under the IS component. These would be procured by NMP using expert input on specifications. Such
large service contracts may also be used for an NGO to oversee net distribution, manufacturing and
social marketing under the MMN program. These would be based upon competitive (QCBS) bidding,
following project-specific guidelines and noted in the PIP.
(b)   Intermediate service contracts (between US$100,000 and US$200,000) would be for similar
efforts to 3 (a), and would also be procured by NMP using the same procedures, but targeted to national
firms on a competitive basis.
(c)    NGO services and operational research belong to the MMN and IS components and would use
the following procurement procedures. Small NGO services would average around US$30,000, but
could range in some states up to a limit of US$100,000. These small NGO services would be procured
by NMP, states or districts based upon geographic location, quality of previous efforts and other project-
specific procedures for selection agreed with IDA and noted in the PIP. Larger NGO contracts would be
procured in accordance with paragraphs 3 (a) and (b) above.
All NGO services in the MMN component would follow selection criteria, short-listing and
monitoring that emphasizes: (a) encouraging local capacity of NGOs; (b) agreed common evaluation of
the projects at 2 years time; and (c) informing relevant NGOs of the program.
Most operational research services belong to the IS and ERIC components and would be
procured by NMP following guidelines from an expert working group composed of the NMP, MRC and
other agencies. The research items would follow a list of agreed priority items, and would be evaluated
by the working group on an annual basis. The products from the operational research would be further
evaluated by the annual program development reviews to ensure their quality and the relevance of
studies to the enhanced program. Small professional services contracts, such as design of local
information systems, belong to various components and would follow the Consultant Guidelines under
QCBS.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Table B (Part II): Details of Procurement Methods and Links to Project Components (continued)
3.     Services (continued)
(d)    Spray workers belong to the SVC and ERIC components. These would involve hiring seasonal
workers by districts using standard contract forms developed by NMP. Similar workers are already been
hired by local district malaria officers. Individual consultants belong to the IS component and would be
those who work in accounting, management and clerical functions in support of district societies, state or
national offices implementing the project.
(e)    Publicity services for mass media for appropriate target groups would be procured by NMP and
the states directly from the Ministry of Information's radio and television stations. All publicity services
contracts are estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each. The procurement of these would follow
standard approaches used in other IDA-financed projects, such as National AIDS Control (Credit No.
23500). The rates that would not exceed the standard rate of charges to other advertisers. Local folk
media and community awareness and related IEC activities would be procured using sole-source, or
using QCBS by local district malaria societies or empowered committees, and following selection
criteria described in the PIP. Training and workshops would be undertaken in accordance with GOI
procedures, and may include procurement, under sole-source selection, of selected extemal training
experts. Procurement would be against the costs for meetings, training materials, per diems (TA/DA),
expert services and related fees. These would follow similar approaches used in other IDA-financed
projects, such as National AIDS Control (Credit No. 23500) and Cataract Blindness Control (Credit No.
26110).
4.     Miscellaneous
These involve operating expenses for all the components, including maintenance costs for civil
works and components, fuel costs for vehicles, salaries for incremental staff, and operational costs for
spray workers. These would be procured on the basis of direct contracting, or three quotations,
depending upon the situation.
Table B (Part III): Details of Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
Disbursements:
The following will be the basis of disbursement on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a)
incremental operating costs; (b) consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent
in the case of firms and $50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals; (c) contracts for goods and works
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for medicated mosquito nets not exceeding
$300,000 equivalent each; and (e) contracts for vehicles and insecticides not exceeding $100,000
equivalent each. Given the large size of the Credit and the disbursement period (66 months), a special
account of US$8 million equivalent will be used.
Retroactive financing:
In order to facilitate a timely project start and to meet several costs associated with adoption of
the enhanced program, retroactive financing up to US$5 million equivalent (or three percent of the
credit) would be provided to cover eligible expenditures incurred after September 30, 1996.
Expenditures would be for eligible insecticides, mosquito net program, malaria link functions, publicity,
consultant services, training and workshops, and incremental operating costs.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in         IDA Financing
Expenditure Category          US$ Million         Percentage
Civil Works                               5.3      90%
100% of foreign
Furniture & Equipment                    10.8      expenditures, 100% of local
Vehicles                                 2.7       expenditures
Drugs (Injectables, D.E.C) & Supplies     6.1      (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
Biocides and L. fish                     4.5      local expenditures for other
items procured locally
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
Medicated Mosquito Nets (MMNs)            7.0      expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Insecticides (Pyrethroids)              64.3       85%
Training, Workshops & Fellowships        7.2
IEC & Publicity                           1.6      100%
Research & Studies                        1.4
Malaria link functions, NGO services,    43.2
consultant services and operational
research
Operating Expenditures                   10.5      80% of local expenditures
Maintenance                              0.3       incurred until June 30, 1999;
55% of expenditures
incurred from July 1, 1999
until June 30, 2001; and
25% of expenditures
incurred thereafter.
TOTAL    164.8



Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Bank Project Budget (US$ thousands)          Planned               Actual
Lending Development                               40.0                 39.9
Pre-appraisal                                    238.0                228.4
Appraisal                                        108.3                 86.2
Negotiations                                      10.3                  9.7
TOTAL                            396.6                364.2
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months          18                  20
between identification and effectiveness)
First Bank mission (identification)         November, 1995       November, 1995
Appraisal mission departure                  October, 1996        February, 1997
Negotiations                                 February, 1997         April, 1997
Planned Effectiveness Date                     June, 1997        September, 1997
Project Implementation Plan prepared by: MOHFW and NMP.
Preparation assistance: Consultants funded under Bank funds were A. Arata, E. Dib and R.
Romano. Consultants funded under Japanese Grant for Project Preparation were M.
Subramaniyam, N. Murthy, and G. Jenkins. Consultants funded under the Canadian Trust Fund
(India Allocation) were K. Ranson and J. Vanderheyden. The consultant funded under
Netherlands Trust Fund was S. Mehra.
Bank staff who worked on the IDA credit included: P. Jha (Task Manager), S. Habayeb (Back-
up Task Manager), K. Casey, V. Ibabao, J. Mittman, J. Mukira, C. Powell-Ambassa, G.
Stubblefield and S. Rao-Seshadri (SA2PH); M. Chand, R. Kumar, T. Measham, and S.
Subramaniyam (SA2RS); E. Abedin and M. Jansen (ASTEN). Peer reviewers were A. Abrantes
(LASHC), J. Hammer (PRDPE), and B. Liese (HSDDR). The Division Chief is R. Skolnik and
the Country Director is R. Drysdale.
Staff from external agencies who provided input on the IDA Credit include: N. K. Shah,
Country Representative, India, WHO; V. Orlov and P. Arbani, Regional Malaria Advisers, WHO
SEARO; K. Behbehani, Director CTD, WHO; B. Grose, ODA Delhi; and S. Meek, Malaria
Consortium, London.






Annex 8
Page I of 3
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
NMP (National Malaria Eradication Program). November 1995. "Malaria Control Project for World Bank
Financing: Strengthening Malaria Control in India". New Delhi.
_.___* February 1996. "Supplementary Document: Strengthening Malaria Control in India". New Delhi.
_.___* February 1997. "Malaria Control Project with World Bank Assistance: Project Implementation Plan".
New Delhi.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Arata, A., Jha, P. 1996. "Review of the Revised Insecticide Policies for India: Outline".
British Council Division, British High Commission, New Delhi. 1996a. "Initial lessons from a community
financing of impregnated bednets trial in rural India". Unpublished paper.
_   1996b. "Malaria: community financing of impregnated bednets in Keonjhar, Orissa".
Jha, P. , Ranson, K., Arata, A. 1996. "Technical Assessment and Economic gains of National Malaria Control in
India".
Lines, J. 1996a. "Mosquito nets and Insecticides for Net Treatment: A discussion of existing and potential
distribution systems in Africa". Unpublished paper.
.  1996b. "Making insecticide-treated nets widely available in India". Unpublished paper.
Rao-Seshadri, S., Jha, P., Ibabao, V., 1995. "Social Action Implementation Plan for Malaria Control Project".
World Health Organization and World Bank. "Operational Issues in Malaria Control: Report of a Working
Meeting". Arlie, Virginia, USA, 1995.
C. Others including external publications
Asenso-Okyere, W.K. 1994. "Socioeconomic factors in malaria control". World Health Forum 15:265-268.
Barlow, R. 1966. "The economic Effects of Malaria Eradication". American Economic Review
1966(Supplement): 130-148.
Barlow, R., L.M. Grobar. 1986. "Cost and Benefits of Controlling Parasitic Diseases". World Bank, PHN
Technical Note 85-17, Washington DC
Bremen, A., H. Veeken. 1992. "Insecticide-impregnated bed nets for malaria control: a review of the field trials".
Bulletin of the World Health Organization 70(3):293-296.
Carnevale, P., M. Cossemans. 1995. "Some Operational Aspects of the Use of MMN program Methods Against
Malaria at Individuals and Community Level". Ann. Soc. belge Med. trop. 75:81-103.
Choi, H.W., J.G. Breman, S.M. Teutsch, S. Liu, A.W. Hightower, J.D. Sexton. 1995. "The Effectiveness of
Insecticide-Impregnated Bed Nets in Reducing Cases of Malaria Infection: A Meta-analysis of Published Results".
Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg 52(5):377-82.
Cohn, EJ. 1972. "Assessing the Costs and Benefits of Anti-Malaria Programmes: The Indian Experience".
American Journal of Public Health 63(12): 1086-96.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Curtis, C.F. 1994. "Should DDT continue to be recommended for malaria vector control?" Medical and
Veterinary Entomology 8:107-112.
El Gaddal, A.A., A.A.M. Haridi, F.T. Hassan, H. Husein. 1985. "Malaria control in the Gazira-Managil irrigated
scheme of the Sudan. Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 88:153-159.
Gandahusada, S., G.A. Fleming, Sukamto, T. Damar, Suwarto, N. Sustriayu, Y.H. Bang, S. Arwati, H. Arif. 1984.
"Malaria control with residual fenitrothion in Central Java, Indonesia: an operational-scale trial using both full and
selective coverage treatments". Bulletin of the World Health Organization 62(5):783-794.
Glynn, J.R., J. Lines, D.J. Bradley. 1994. "Impregnated Bednets and the Dose-Severity Relationship in Malaria".
Parasitology Today 10(7):279-81.
Gratz, N.S. 1996. "Comments on 'Adverse Assessments of Gambusia affinis"'. Journal of the American Mosquito
Control Association 12(2): 160- 1.
Hammer,JS.. 1993. "Theeconomicsofmalariacontrol". TheWorldBankResearchObserver 8(l):1-22.
_   1996. "Economic Analysis for Health Projects". World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 1611, Policy
Research Department, Washington, D.C.
Huailu, C., Y. Wen, K. Wuanmin, L. Chongyi. 1995. "Large-scale spraying of bednets to control mosquito vectors
and malaria in Sichuan, China". Bulletin of the World Health Organization 73(3):321-328.
Jana-Kara, B.R., W.A. Jihullah, B. Shahi, V. Dev, C.F. Curtis, V.P. Sharma. 1995. "Deltamethrin impregnated
bednets against Anopheles minimus transmitted malaria in Assam, India". J. Trop. Med Hyg. 98:73-83.
Jeffery, G.M. 1984. "The role of chemotherapy in malaria control through primary health care: constraints and
future prospects." Bulletin of the World Health Organization 62(Suppl.):49-53.
Jha, P., K. Ranson, J-L Bobadilla. 1996 "Measuring the Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness of Health
Interventions: A Case Study in Guinea." World Bank Technical Paper No. 333
Jonkman, A., R.A. Chibwe, C.O. Khoromana, U.L. Liabunya, M.E. Chaponda, G.E. Kandiero, M.E. Molyneux,
T.E. Taylor. "Cost-saving through microscopy-based versus presumptive diagnosis of malaria in adult outpatients
in Malawi". Bulletin of the World Health Organization 73(2):223-227.
Kaewsonthi, S. 1991. "Workshop report and recommendations". In Targett, G.A.T. , ed., Malaria: waitingfor the
vaccine. Chichester: John Wiley and Sons.
Kaewsonthi, S., A.G. Harding. 1984. "Cost and performance of malaria surveillance in Thailand". Soc. Sci. Med
19(10):1081-1097.
Kere, J.F., N.K. Kere. 1992. "Bed-nets or spraying? Cost analyses of malaria control in the Solomon Islands".
Health Policy and Planning 7(4):382-386.
Liese, B. 1991. "Malaria and the World Bank". In Targett, G.A.T.,ed., Malaria: waitingfor the vaccine.
Chichester: John Wiley and Sons.
MacCormack, C.P., R.W. Snow, B.M. Greenwood. 1989. "Use of insecticide-impregnated bed nets in Gambian
Primary health care: economic aspects". Bulletin of the World Health Organization 67(2):209-214.
Mills, A. 1991. "The economics of malaria control". In Targett, G.A.T., ed., Malaria: waitingfor the vaccine.
Chichester: John Wiley and Sons.
_   1992. "The economic evaluation of malaria control technologies: the case of Nepal". Soc. Sci. Med
34(9):965-972.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
1993. "Is malaria control a priority? Evidence from Nepal". Health Economics 2:333-347.
_.___  1994. "The economics of vector control strategies for controlling tropical diseases". Am. J. Trop. Med
hyg. 50(6):151-59.
Murray, C.J.L, A. Lopez. 1996. "The global burden of disease and injures) ". Harvard University Press.
Najera J.A., B.H. Liese, J. Hammer. 1993. "Malaria". In D.T. Jamison, W.H. Mosley, A.R. Measham, J.L.
Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford University Press.
Olliaro, P., J. Cattan . . .d D. Wirth. 1996. "Malaria, The Submerged Disease". JAMA 275(3):230-233.
Pattenayak, S., V.P. Sha r.pa, N.L. Karla, V.S. Orlov, R. S. Sharma. 1994. "Malaria Paradigms in India and Control
Strategies". Indian Journal of Malariology 31(4):141-99.
Picard, J., M. Aikins, P.L. Alonso, J.R.M. Armstrong Schellenberg, B.M. Greenwood, A. Mills. 1993. "A malaria
control trial using insecticide-treated bed nets and targeted chemoprophylaxis in a rural area of The Gambia, West
Africa". Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 87(Supplement 2):53-57.
Preker, A.S. 1996. "Economic analysis in the population, health and nutrition sectors: a conceptual framework for
task managers". Unpublished paper.
Ray, A.P., and G.K. Sharma. 1984. "The socio-economic aspects in the context of malaria and its control. In:
Indo-uk Workshop on Malaria. Malaria Research Center (Indian Council of Medical Research), Delhi.
Schreck, C.E., L.S. Self. 1985. "Bed nets that kill mosquitoes". World Health Forum 6:342-344.
Schultz, L.J., R.W. Steketee, L. Chitsulo, J.J. Wirima. 1995. Antimalarials during pregnancy: a cost-effectiveness
analysis". Bulletin of the World Health Organization 73(2):207-214.
Shaw, A.P.M. 1989. "Comparative analysis of the costs and benefits of alternative disease control strategies:
vector control versus human case finding and treatment". Ann. Soc. beige Med trop. 69(Suppl. 1.):237-253.
Singh, N., A.K. Mishra, O.P. Singh, A. Jaiswal, M.T. Khan. 1994. "Feasibility Study of Insecticide-impregnated
Bednets for Malaria Control in Forested Villages of District Mandla (M.P.)". Indian Journal of Malariology
31:136-40.
Sundar, R. 1995. "Household survey of health care utilization and expenditure". New Delhi: National Council of
Applied Economic Research.
Verma, O.P. 1975. "Cost of disease". Journal of the Indian Medical Association 65:60-64.
Wemsdorfer, G., W.H. Wemsdorfer. 1988. "Social and Economic Aspects of Malaria and Its Control". In
Wernsdorfer and I.A. McGregor, eds., Malaria: Principles and Practice of Malariology. New York: Churchill
Livingston.
World Bank. 1993. "World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health". New York: Oxford University Press.
_   1996. "Implementation Completion Report: Brazil--Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project". Washington
D.C.: The World Bank.
_   1996. "India: Country Economic Memorandum, Report No 15882-IN". Washington D.C.: The World
Bank.
World Health Organization. 1996. "Investing in health research and development: report of the Ad Hoc Committee
on Health Research Relating to Future Intervention Options". Geneva: World Health Organization.






Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference                Last ARPP
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      Between expected       Supervision Rating b/
Loan     Fiscal                                                                                                                       and actual      Development  Implementation
Project ID      or       Year                Borrower                     Purpose            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/   Objectives            Progress
Credit
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 353
Active Loans
IN-PA-9925   L28450       1967                                     TALCHER THERMAL            375.00        0.00            79.90         26.20              106.10        S                S
IN-PA-9872   C19230       1988    GOI                              TAMIL NADU URBAN             0.00      300.20            45.47         57.61               99.85        S                S
IN-PA-9869   L30240       1989    GOI                              NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO        485.00        0.00             0.00        265.66              240.29        S                S
IN-PA-9898   C20100       1989    GOI                              UPPER KRISHNA PHASE          0.00      160.00             0.00         16.42                8.91        U               U
IN-PA-9898   L30500       1989    GOI                              UPPER KRISHNA PHASE        165.00        0.00           120.00         45.00              165.00        U               U
IN-PA-9910   C20570       1989    GOI                              FAMILY WELFARE TRG (         0.00      113.30            40.54         22.09               63.80        S               S
IN-PA-9941   L30960       1989    GOI                              MAHARASHTRA POWER          400.00        0.00           46.00         169.26              201.93        S               S
IN-PA-9956   L30930       1989    GOI                              ELECTRONICS                  8.00        0.00             0.00          2.12              204.12        HS              S
IN-PA-9973   L29940       1989    STATE PUBLIC WORKS DEPTS         STATE ROADS I              170.00        0.00            55.00         21.41              156.41        U               U
IN-PA-9990   C20080       1989    GOVT OF INDIA                    VOCATIONAL TRAINING          0.00      250.00            86.15         80.41              177.56        U               U
IN-PA-9996   C20220       1989    GOI                              NATIONAL SERICULTURE         0.00      147.00            21.95         30.41               71.72        S               S
IN-PA-9860   C21310       1990    GOI                              WTRSH PLAINS                 0.00       55.00             0.00         26.41                8.06        S               S
IN-PA-9882   C21000       1990    GOI                              WTRSH HILLS                  0.00       75.00             0.00         37.27               30.46        S               S
IN-PA-9890   C21150       1990    GO                              HYDERABAD W/S                0.00       79.90             0.00         35 .93              23.77        HS              5
IN-PA-9895   C20640       1990    GO                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME         0.00       55.00             0.00         35.11               26.88        HS              S
IN-PA-9895   L31190       1990    GOI                              TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME    145.00           0.00            10.00         37.38               47.38        HS              S
IN-PA-9932   C21580       1990    GOI                              SECOND TN NUTRITION          0.00       95.80           28.28          21.50               31.16        HS              S
IN-PA-9940   C21330       1990    GOI                              POP. TRG (VII)               0.00       86.70           22.74          18.02               36.88        U               U
IN-PA-9965   C20760       1990    GOI                              PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAG         0.00      150.00            4.72          53.53               29.32        S               S
IN-PA-9981   L31960       1990    GOI                              CEMENT INDUSTRY REST    300.00           0.00            6.82          43.60               50.42       HS               S
IN-PA-9982   L32370       1990    GOI                              NOR REG TRANSM             485.00        0.00            0,00         331.25              307.12        S               S
IN-PA-9989   C21300       1990    GOI                              TECH EDUC I                  0.00     235.00            24,26          88.35               82.27        5               S
IN-PA-10361  C21730       1991    GO                              ICDS I (ORIS & ANDHR         0.00       96.00           21,65          29.99               36.81        S               S
IN-PA-10369  C22340       1991    GOVT OF INDIA                    MAHARASNTRA RURAL WS         0.00      109.90            0.00          62.41               58.70        5               U
IN-PA-10381  L33640       1991    GOI                              GAS FLARING REDUCTIO    450.00           0.00            0.00          29.16               29.16        S               S
IN-PA-9877   C22410       1991    GOI                              DAM SAFETY                   0.00      130.00            0.00        110.44               106.69        S               U
IN-PA-9885   L32580       1991    GOI/IPCL                         PETROCHEMICALS              12.00        0.00            0.00           4.92                4.71        S               S
IN-PA-9885   L32590       1991    GOI/IPCL                         PETROCHEMICALS             233.00        0.00           70.30          35.68             -127.02        S               S
IN-PA-9906   C22520       1991    GOI                              IND POLLUTION CONTRO         0.00       31.60            0.00          28.51               26.35        S               S
IN-PA-9906   L33340       1991    GOI                              IND POLLUTION CONTRO    124.00           0.00            0.00          38.62               -3.48        S               S
IN-PA-9958   C22150       1991       GOVT OF TAMIL NADU            AGR.DEV.I (TN)               0.00       92.80            0.00          30.43               14.09        5               5
IN-PA-9958   L33000       1991       GOVT OF TAMIL NADU            AGR.DEV.I (TN)              20.00        0.00            0.00          20.00                1.25        5               S
IN-PA-9988   C22230       1991    GO1                              TECH EDUC II                 0.00      307.10           51.37         160.66              137.61        S               S
IN-PA-9993   L33440       1991    BSES                             PRIVATE POWER UTIL 1    200.00           0.00            0.00          21.21               20.54        S               S
IN-PA-10390  C23280       1992                                     MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY         0.00      124.00            0.00          91.39               33.62        S               S
IN-PA-10391  C23410       1992    GOI                              WEST BENGAL FORESTRY         0.00       34.00            0.00         13.16                 5.02        S               S
IN-PA-10393  C23500       1992    GOVT OF INDIA                    AIDS PREVENTION AND          0.00      84.00             0.00         47.93                35.42       S               S
IN-PA-10400  L34980       1992    GOI, TEC                         MAHARASHTRA POWER II    350.00           0.00            0,00        239.81              190.81        U               HS  t
IN-PA-9888   L34360       1992    GOI                              POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP    265.00           0.00            0.00        139.12                94 .55      S               S
C*4D
r 'IC



Difference                Last ARPP
original Amount in US$ Millions                    Between expected       Supervision Rating b/
Loan     Fiscal                                                                                                                  and actual      Development  Implementation
Project ID    or        Year               Borrower                    Purpose            IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/  Objectives           Progress
Credit
No.
IN-PA-9921   C23290      1992    GOI & STATES                    SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR        0.00      85.00             0.00         80.60              54.36        U              U
IN-PA-9946   C23650      1992    GOI                            NAT. HIGHWAYS II             0.00     153.00             0.00       104.11               37.98        U              U
IN-PA-9946   L34700      1992    GO                            NAT. HIGHWAYS II           153.00       0.00             0.00       153.00                0.00        U              U
IN-PA-9963   C23940      1992    GOI                             POPULATION VIII             0.00      79.00             0.00        77.92               41.63        S              S
IN-PA-10407  C24330      1993    GOI                            ADP - RAJASTHAN              0.00     106.00             0.00        59.72               13.33        S              S
IN-PA-10408  C24390      1993    GOI                            BIHAR PLATEAU                0.00     117.00             0.00        97.25               46.35        S              S
IN-PA-10410  C24490      1993    GOI                            RENEWABLE RESOURCES          0.00     115.00            0.00         96.90              172.00        S              S
IN-PA-10411  C24500      1993                                   JHARIA MINE FIRE CON         0.00      12.00             0.00         6.80                6.25        5              5
IN-PA-10416  L35770      1993                                    PGC POWER SYSTEM          350.00       0.00             0.00       222.63              120.63        S              S
IN-PA-10418  C24830      1993    GOI                            KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S         0.00      92.00             0.00        80.28               36.22        U              U
IN-PA-10422  L36300      1993    GOT                            PRIVATE POWER DEVT T        20.00       0.00             0.00        19.49               19.49        U              U
IN-PA-10423  L36320      1993    NTPC                           NTPC POWER GENERATIO    400.00          0.00             0.00       338.32              318.32        5              S
IN-PA-10424  C25280      1993    GOI                            NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA         0.00      85.00             0.00        61.45               27.57       HS              S
IN-PA-9955  C25090       1993    GOI                            UTTAR PRADESH BASIC          0.00     165.00            0.00         97.25                2.01       HS              S
IN-PA-9959   C24090      1993    GOI                            RUB9BER                      0.00      92.00            0.00         83.87               37.43       U               U
IN-PA-9961   C25100      1993    GOI                            UP SODIC LANDS RECLA         0.00      54.70             0.00        41.57               10.00        S              S
IN-PA-9977   C24700      1993    GOI                             ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)        0.00     194.00            0.00        181.79               57.54       S               S
IN-PA-10448  C25720      1994    GOI                            FORESTRY RESEARCH ED         0.00      47.00            0.00         39.06               16.21       S               S
IN-PA-10449  C2S730      1994    GOI                            ANDHRA PRADESH PORES         0.00      77.40            0.00         67.38               12.87       S               S
IN-PA-10455  C26110      1994    GOI                            BLINDNESS CONTROL            0.00     117.80            0.00        110.76               14.21       S               S
IN-PA-10457  C26300      1994    GOI                            POPULATION IX                0.00      88.60            0.00         83.28                8.93       S               S
IN-PA-34162  C25940      1994                                   MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUA         0.00     246.00            0.00        164.71               81.48       S               U
IN-PA-9870   L37530      1994    GOVT. OF INDIA                 CONTAINER TRANSPORT         94.00       0.00            0.00         82.60               37.27       S               S
IN-PA-9964   C25920      1994    GOI                            WATER RES CONSOLID H         0.00     258.00            0.00        225.51               35.51       U               S
IN-PA-10461  L39070      1995    GOI                            MADRAS WATER SUP II          6.00       0.00            0.00            .01              23.06       S               S
IN-PA-10461  L39076      1995    GOI                            MADRAS WATER SUP II       269.80        0.00            0.00        269.80                0.00       S               S
IN-PA-10463  C26450      1995    GOI                            INDUS POLLUTION PREV         0.00      25.00            0.00         25.63               24.99       S               S
IN-PA-10463  L37790      1995    GOI                            INDUS POLLUTION PREV        93.00       0.00            0.00         88.00               -2.45       S               S
IN-PA-10463  L37806      1995    GOI                            INDUS POLLUTION PREV       50.00        0.00            0.00         50.00                0.00       S               s
IN-PA-10464  C26610      1995    GOI                            DISTRICT PRIMARY ED          0.00     260.30            0.00        231.29               21.36       S               S
IN-PA-10476  C27450      1995    GOI                            TAMIL NADU WRCP              0.00     282.90            0.00        250.45               24.88       S               S
IN-PA-10489  C26630      1995    GOVERNMENT OF INDIA            AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S         0.00     133.00            0.00        128.54               14.19       S               S
IN-PA-10503  C26990      1995                                   AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT         0.00      59.50            0.00         55.10               10.46       S               S
IN-PA-10506  C27000      1995    GOI                            MP FORESTRY                 0.00       58.00            0.00         50.28                -.27       S               S
IN-PA-10522  C27330      1995    GOI                            ASSAM RURAL INFRA           0.00      126.00            0.00        115.07                7.08       U              U
IN-PA-10563  L38560      1995    GOVT OF INDIA                  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV    350.00          0.00            0.00        200.00             -150.00       S              s
IN-PA-10563  L38576      1995    GOVT OF INDIA                  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV    144.00          0.00            0.00        144.00                0. 00      5              S
IN-PA-10480  C27630      1996    GOVT OF INDIA                  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL           0.00       25.00            0.00          5.04                6.97       S              S
IN-PA-10480  L39230      1996    GOVT OF INDIA                  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL         167.00        0.00            0.00        167.00              12.77        S              S
IN-PA-10484  L40560      1996    GOI                            UP RURAL WATER             59.60        0.00            0.00         59.60                 .70       S              S
IN-PA-10485  C27740      1996    GOVT OF INDIA                  HYDROLOGY PROJECT           0.00      142.00            0 .00       126.17              -4.00        S              S
IN-PA-10529  C28010      1996    GOI                            ORISSA WRCP                 0.00      290.90            0.00        259.84             -12.41        S              S
IN-PA-35170  L40140      1996    GOI                            ORISSA POWER SECTOR       350.00        0.00            0.00        350.00               0.00        S              S
IN-PA-35821  C28760      1996    GOI                            DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2        0.00      425.20            0.00        421.36               0.00        S              S
IN-PA-35825  C28330      1996    GOI                            STATE HEALTH SYS II         0.00      350.00            0.00        328.62               6.36        S              S
IN-PA-39935  C28380      1996    IL&FS                          ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE         0.00        5.00            0.00          4.91                .50        S              S
IN-PA-39935  L39920      1996    IL&FS                          ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE       200.00        0.00            0.00        200.00               0.00        S              S
IN-PA-43310  C28620      1996    GO0                            COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.        0.00       63.00            0.00         59.55              -3.00        S              S
IN-PA-36062  C29160      1997    GOI                            ECODEVELOPMENT              0.00       28.00            0.00         28.17               0.00
Total                                                                                   6,893.40   7,270.60           735.16      8,763.05           4,023.00
Active yLoas        Closed Loans            Total
On?4



Difference                Last ARPP
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    Between expected       Supervision Rating b/
Loan     Fiscal                                                                                                                   and actual      Development  Implementation
Project ID     or        Year               Borrower                    Purpose            IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements a/  Objectives           Progress
Credit
No.
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              4,845.16           28,420.26           33,265.42
of which has been repaid:                223.95           7,844.31            8,068.26
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             13,204.89           19,981.10          33,185.99
Amount sold                                      0.00              133.77              133.77
Of which repaid                               0.00              133.77             133.77
Total Undisbursed               :            8,763.05               29.66           8,792.71
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form S90). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory)  see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
(PD
oq 
O  (D



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
India
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1997)
In US$ Millions
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                              IFC       -
FY            Company            Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1964      MUSCO                       0.00      .47     0.00     0.00    0.00     .47    0.00    0.00
1975      MUSCO                       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1978      HDFC                        0.00      .41     0.00     0.00    0.00     .41    0.00    0.00
1979      MUSCO                       0.00      .19     0.00     0.00    0.00     .19    0.00    0.00
1981      ITW Signode                 0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981      M&M                         0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1981      Nagarjuna Steel             0.00      .07     0.00     0.00    0.00     .07    0.00    0.00
1981      TISCO                       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1982      Modi Cement                17.31     0.00     0.00     0.00   17.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984      Bihar Sponge               13.43      .63     0.00     0.00   13.43    .63    0.00    0.00
1984      India Lease                 0.00      .35     0.00     0.00    0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-City Mills              .48      0.00     0.00     0.00    .48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-CECL                     .01     0.00     0.00     0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-NB Footwear              .19     0.00     0.00     0.00     .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-Paharpur                .22      0.00     0.00     0.00     .22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-STG                      .46     0.00     0.00     0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-TAN                     .03      0.00     0.00     0.00     .03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      EXB-Wires & Fab.            .11      0.00     0.00     0.00     .11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986      GESCO                      0.00      8.46     0.00     0.00    0.00    8.46    0.00    0.00
1986      India Equipment            0.00       .30     0.00     0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1986      ITW Signode                 0.00      .30     0.00     0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00
1986      TISCO                       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987      Hindustan                   8.49     0.00     0.00     0.00    8.49    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987      HDFC                        0.00      .26     0.00     0.00    0.00     .26    0.00    0.00
1987      Titan Watches               .97       .39     0.00     0.00     .97    .39    0.00    0.00
1988      GKN Invel                   0.00      1,07    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1988      Tata Telecom                0.00      .05     0.00     0.00    0.00     .05    0.00    0.00
1988      Titan Watches               1.99     0.00     0.00     0.00    1.99    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      AEC                        14.72     0.00     0.00     0.00   14.72    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      Gujarat State              11.15     0.00     0.00     0.00   11.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      JSB India                   0.00      .37     0.00     0.00    0.00     .37    0.00    0.00
1989      Tata Electric              32.30     0.00     0.00     0.00   32.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989      TISCO                       8.69     12.34    0.00     0.00    8.69   12.34    0.00    0.00
1989      UCAL                        0.00      .63     0.00     0.00    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00
1990      CESC                       19.05     0.00     0.00     0.00   19.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990      HOEL                       0.00       .28     0.00     0.00    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00
1990      India Lease                 1.31      .21     0.00     0.00    1.31    .21    0.00    0.00
1990      ICICI-IFGL                  0.00      .16     0.00     0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00
1990      ICICI-SPIC Fine             0.00      1.02    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00
1990      IL & FS                    12.75     0.00     1.81     0.00   12.75    0.00    1.81    0.00
1990      M&M                         1.00     5.78     0.00     4.00    1.00    5.78    0.00    4.00
1990      MUSCO                      0.00       .42     0.00     0.00    0.00     .42    0.00    0.00



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
Committed                         Disbursed
-I     IFC                             - IFC     -
FY            Company           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
-f990      Tata Electric             30.26     0.00     0.00     0.00   30.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990      Tata Telecom               0.00      .02     0.00     0.00    0.00    .02    0.00    0.00
1990      Titan Watches              0.00      .12      0.00    0.00    0.00    .12    0.00    0.00
1990      TDICI-VECAUS 11            0.00      1.94     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00
1991      Bihar Sponge               0.00      .05      0.00    0.00    0.00    .05    0.00    0.00
1991      Block KG-OS-IV             0.00      .02      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      BSES                      45.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      Gujarat State              2.65      0.00     0.00    0.00    2.65    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991      HDFC                      40.00      .32      0.00    0.00   40.00    .32    0.00    0.00
1991      ITW Signode                0.00      .11      0.00    0.00    0.00    .11    0.00    0.00
1991      Triveni                    0.00      .36      0.00    0.00    0.00    .36    0.00    0.00
1991      VARUN                      6.25      1.35     0.00    0.00    6.25    1.35    0.00    0.00
1992      Arvind Mills               0.00      6.55     0.00    0.00    0.00    6.55    0.00    0.00
1992      Creditcapital VF           0.00      .45     0.00     0.00    0.00    .45    0.00    0.00
1992      CESC                      30.00      0.00    0.00    67.00   30.00    0.00    0.00   67.00
1992      GESCO                      0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Indus VC Mgt Co            0.00      .01     0.00     0.00    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00
1992      Indus VCF                  0.00      1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Info Tech Fund             0.00      .64      0.00    0.00    0.00    .64    0.00    0.00
1992      Nippon Denro              28.57      5.77    0.00     0.00   28.57    5.77    0.00    0.00
1992      NICCO-UCO                  2.06      .15     0.00     0.00    2.06    .15    0:00    0.00
1992      SKF Bearings               6.70      0.00    0.00     0.00    6.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992      Tata Telecom               0.00      .03      0.00    0.00    0.00    .03    0.00    0.00
1992      TISCO                      0.00      3.03     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.03    0.00    0.00
1993      Arvind Mills               0.00     10.55     0.00    0.00    0.00   10.55    0.00    0.00
1993      GESCO                      0.00      2.56     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.56    0.00    0.00
1993      HDFC                       0.00      1.30     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00
1993      India Equipment            .60       0.00     0.00    1.47    .60    0.00    0.00    1.47
1993      Indo Rama                 21.88      9.84     0.00    8.75   21.88    9.84    0.00    8.75
1993      IL & FS                    0.00      3.11     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.11    0.00    0.00
1993      ITW Signode                0.00      .60      0.00    0.00    0.00    .60    0.00    0.00
1993      M&M                        0.00      .71      0.00    0.00    0.00    .71    0.00    0.00
1993      Titan Watches              0.00      .52     0.00     0.00    0.00    .52    0.00    0.00
1993      Triveni                    0.00      .75     0.00     0.00    0.00    .75    0.00    0.00
1993      20TH Century                .93      .80     0.00     5.87     .93    .80    0.00    5.87
1994      Centurion Growth           0.00      2.39     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
1994      Chowgule                  15.00      4.58     0.00    27.00    6.88    4.58    0.00   12.38
1994      Crdcap Asset Mgt           0.00      .32     0.00     0.00    0.00    .32    0.00    0.00
1994      DLF Cement                15.32      0.00    0.00    17.00   15.32    0.00    0.00   17.00
1994      Global Trust               0.00      3.19    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00
1994      Gujarat Ambuja             0.00      8.23    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00
1994      GESCO                      0.00      2.03    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00
1994      GKN Invel                  0.00      .33      0.00    0.00    0.00    .33    0.00    0.00
1994      GVK                       40.00      8.30    0.00    38.74   30.00    8.30    0.00   38.74
1994      India Equipment            0.00      .14     0.00     0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00
1994      India Lease                0.00      .30     0.00     0.00    0.00    .30    0.00    0.00
1994      Indo Rama                  0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      ICICI-IFGL                 0.00      .14      0.00    0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00
1994      IL & FS                   15.00      0.00     0.00    10.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                              IFC        -
FY            Company           Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1994      Nippon Denro              30.00      0.00     0.00    60.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      Tata Electric              0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994      Taurus Starshare           0.00      7.17     0.00     0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00
1994      TCAMC                      0.00       .16     0.00     0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00
1994      TISCO                      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995      Centurion Bank             0.00      3.87     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00
1995      Creditcapital VF           0.00       .60     0.00     0.00    0.00     .60    0.00    0.00
1995      EXIMBANK                  25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995      India Equipment            0.00       .33     0.00     0.00    0.00     .33    0.00    0.00
1995      ICICI-SPIC Fine            0.00       .86     0.00     0.00    0.00     .86    0.00    0.00
1995      ISIC                       0.00       .32     0.00     0.00    0.00     .32    0.00    0.00
1995      JSB India                  0.00       .84     0.00     0.00    0.00    .84    0.00    0.00
1995      Prism Cement               15.00     5.02     0.00    15.00   15.00    5.02    0.00   15.00
1995      Rain Calcining             19.25     5.40     0.00     0.00    6.00    4.72    0.00    0.00
1995      RPG Communicat             0.00      8.30     0.00     0.00    0.00    6.28    0.00    0.00
1995      Sara Fund                  0.00      7.02     0.OQ     0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00
1995      SRF Finance                15.00     5.00     0.00     0.00   15.00    4.39    0.00    0.00
1996      CVF Oil Gas-AL             8.00      8.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      India Direct Fnd           0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     .78    0.00    0.00
1996      Indo Rama                  0.00      2.14     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00
1996      Indus II                   0.00      5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1996      Indus Mauritius            0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      ITW Signode                0.00       .54     0.00     0.00    0.00     .54    0.00    0.00
1996      Moser Baer                 5.70       .60     0.00     0.00    5.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      NICCO-UCO                  0.00       .22     0.00     0.00    0.00     .22    0.00    0.00
1996      United Riceland            10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996      VARUN                      5.67      0.00     0.00     6.00    5.67    0.00    0.00    6.00
1997      CEAT                      20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      GVK                        0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      NICCO-UCO                  0.00       .13     0.00     0.00    0.00     .13    0.00    0.00
1997      Owens Corning             25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      WIPRO                      10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997      20TH Century               15.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Portfolio Totals:        648.50    185.79     1.81   260.83  499.13  158.22    1.81  186.21
Pending Commitments
1996      * CESC 11 -BLINC           0.00      0.00     0.00    37.00
1996      * DEV CREDIT BANK          0.00      1.89     0.00     0.00
1995      * IB VALLEY POWER         50.00     20.00     0.00     0.00
1997      * ITC CLASSIC             20.00      0.00    10.00     0.00
1994      * NEYVELI POWER           30.00     18.00     0.00   150.00
1994      * NIPPON DENRO ISP         0.00      6.00     0.00     0.00
1997      * NIPPON EXPANSION         15.00     6.00     0.00    25.00
1997      * OWENS CORNING           25.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1995      * SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE         0.00       .86     0.00     0.00
1996      * TARUN SHIPPING           0.00       .80     0.00     0.00



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
India at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South    Low-
India     Asia  Income       Development dlamond-
Population mid-1995 (mi/lions)                        929.4     1,243    3,188
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                               350       350      480                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                               327.0       435    1,466
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                          1.8       1.9      1.8      GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.1       2.4      1.9      per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year evailable since 1989)                             capita                        enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)                 27        26       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        62        e1        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)               e8         73       58                Access to sah wabr
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               63        82       38
Access to safe water (X of population)                   85        81       75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    48         50       34
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   102        98      105                 India
Male                                                 113        110      112                 Low-incomegroup
Female                                                91        87        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994     1995
GOP (billions US$)                            91.0    214.3     301.2    329.9      Economic ratlos
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 20.8     23.9      23.2     24.2
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP   8.2      8.0      11.3     12.4              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingsfGDP                    20.4     20.8      21.5     22.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    20.8     21.1      22.3     22.6
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.1     -2.8      -0.9     -1.8
Interest payments/GDP                          0.3      0.e       1.3      1.3      Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                15.1     19.1      32.9     31.0
Total debt service/exports                    13.1     22.7      26.3     25.6
Present value of debGDP                         ..       ..      23.5
Present value of debtlexports                    .        *-    176.7                           Indebtedness
1975-84  1988-95     1904      1996  1996044
(average annual growth)                                                                      India
GDP (factor cost)                     4.0      5.1      6.3       6.0      6.0               Low-lncone group
GNP per capita                        1.7      3.1      6.1       4.6      4.68     ~       Lwicm   ru
Exports of goods and nfs             4.0      10.7      4.1      17.8      8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(56 of GDP)                                  1975      1985     1994      1098       roh rats of output and Investment 56)
Agriculture                                   40.5     33.0      31.1     30.3      20
Industry                                      23.7     28.1      28.0     28.9      10
Manufacturing                               16.7     17.9       17.4     18.4
Services                                      35.8     38.8      40.9     40.9    .10                   92          04   95
Private consumption                           70.2     68.1      68.2     67.3    -20
General government consumption                 9.4     11.1      10.3     10.3                   GDI            GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services       6.e      9.1      13.0     14.3               -0G
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995 8
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (Y6
Agriculture                                    2.4      3.8       4.9      3.0      30
Industry                                       5.2      5.9       8.3     10.0      20
Manufacturing                                5.4       5.8       9.0     12.2
Services                                       4.7      5.7       6.0      5.3      1\
Private consumption                            4.4      4.7       5.0      4.               00    01   92   50   04   06
General govemment consumption                  8.2      4.2       3.0      8.5    *10
Gross domestic investment                      3.7      5.1      19.8     11.2    .20
Imports of goods and non-factor services       9.3      4.7      19.8     13.7                    Export    G  import
Gross national product                         4.0      5.2       6.5      6.4
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1975     1985      1994     1995      Inflaton(%)
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                               5.7      5.5      10.2     10.2
ImplicitGDPdeflator                          -1.5      7.6      11.1      8.5    10
Govemment finance                                                                  s
(% of GDP)                                                                         0
Current revenue                                 ..    23.5      21.2     21.3            go   o1   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                         ..      2.2       0.2     -1.2              -GDPdef. |         CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -10.4       -9.0    -10.3
TRADE
1975     1985     1994     1995    .
(millions US$)                                                                    Export and Import levels (mIll. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  9,463    26,763   32,502     40,000
Tea                                                  611       311      292
Iron                                         ..      473       413      463      30.000
Manufactures                                 ..   5,639    21,088   25,770
Total imports (cif)                            .. 17,298    31,269   38,256       2.0
Food                            ..   ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~ ~~~~1,321  1,464    2,354
Fuel and energy                              ..   4,054      5,928    6,885
Capital goods                                 ..   3,603     6,366    7,152         0
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                     ..       80      118       121            99  9o  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      96       121       128   j               Exports        rnports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..       83       98        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1994     1995
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services    5,650   12,773    34,047   40,971
Imports of goods and non-factor services    5,990   19,422    39,047   47,207         99  90   9    92          94   95
Resource balance                             -340   -6,649    -5,000   -6,236
Net factor income                            -191   -1,653    -3,905   -4,677       T     I
Net current transfers                        470    2,207      6,200    5,499   |2
Current account balance,
before official transfers                   -61   -5,995    -2,705   -5,414    .3      1
Financing items (net)                        636    6,807      9,563    3,120
Changes in net reserves                      -575     -812    -6,858    2,293
Memo:                                                                           |
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         2,064    9,730    24,079   21,930
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   8.7     12.2      31.4     32.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985     1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                   fComposItIon o total debt, 1995 (mIll. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       13,708   40,971    98,990  102,318
IBRD                                       436    2,396    11,120    9,849                       G     A
IDA                                       2,809    9,750    17,666   17,499                    s5    9849
Total debt service                            822    3,634    10,516   11,910    |                               B
IBRD                                         89     313      1,598    1,716          F                       17499
IDA                                         24       124      315       357        29120
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 C
Official grants                            511      450       612      650                                     2719
Official creditors                        1,260    1,424      976    1,732
Private creditors                           83    2,276       148    1,863                                    D
Foreign direct investment                   85       106      620    1,300                          E        4843
Portfolio equity                             0         0     4,729    1,273                        32603
World Bank program
Commitments                                917    2,882      2,066    1,427     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              531    1,375      1,707    1,318      B -IDA    D-Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                        63       157     1,021    1,169      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Netflows                                   467    1,218       686       149   I                                          1
Interest payments                           50      280       891      903
Net transfers                              417       938     -205      -754
SA2CI and International Economics Department                                                                       8/20/96












IMAGING
Report No.:           16571   IN
Type:       PAD



