Environmental Assessment of  Malaria Control
P1roj8ect for VVorld Bank Financing
Q
Sponsor:
Minis-try of Hecalth and Family VVel,are
Nat,Hna) Environmental Engineering Research Institute,
Nehru Niarg, Naßgpur-440 020
December, 1996



LIST o0 CONTENTS
Sr.No.               Title                                Page No.
Executive Summary
PART I
1.0    Preamble                                               1
1.1    Introduction                                   1
1.2    Malaria Control Strategies                     2
1.2.1  Past Strategy                                  2
1.2.2  Present Strategy                               5
1.2.3  Major Constraints in Implementing              6
Malaria Control
1.2.4  Need for Change in the Malaria                 7
Control Strategy
1.2.5  Proposed Integrated Malaria Control            8
Strategy (IMCS)
1.3    The Role of Environmental Assessment in    21
IMCS Design and Monitoring
PART II
2.0   P.anking of Insecticides Being                         25
Used/Proposed to be Used in Malaria
Control Programme
2.1    Use of Insecticides in Malaria                25
Control Programme
2.1.1  Selective Use of Vector Control               26
2.1.2  Criteria for Selection and Use                26
of Insecticides for IRS
2.2    Safety Classification of                      26
Insecticides
2.2.1  Insecticides, Larvicides, and their           26
Ranking and Safety of Application
2.3    Development of Vector Resistance              28
and its Management
2.4    Toxicity to Target and                        32
Non-target Organis2!s
2.4.1  Effect on Vector                              32



Sr.No.               Title                                 Page No.
2.4.2  Effect on l'on-traget Organisms               33
2.5    Efficacy and Cost                             33
2.5.1  Efficacy                                      33
2.5.2  Comparative Cost of IRS                       33
2.5.3  Comparative Cost of Larviciding               38
2.5.4  Comparative cost of Mass and                  39
Selective use of MdMNs
2.5.5  Cost Benefit Aspects of Indian                39
Malaria Programme
2.6    Monitoring of Insecticidal usage              39
Employing GIS
PART III
3.0    Environmental Impacts Arising out of the              41
Modes of Application of Insecticides for
Vector Control Programme
3.1    Prevailing Diodes of Application              41
3.1.1  Impact of Use of Organochlorine.              42
Insecticides
3.1.2  Impact of Use of Organophosphorus             43
Insecticides
3.1.3  Impact of Use of Carbamate                    44
Insecticides
3.1.4  Impact of Use of Synthetic Pyrethroid         44
Insecticides
3.1.5  Impact of Use of Insecticides/Pesticides   45
in Agricultural Sector
4.0    Sectoral Environmental Assessment                     45
4.1    Sectors Linked to Malaria Control             45
4.2    Identification of Sources ofInsecticides   46
Released in the Environment
4.2.1  ranuf'acture                                   4G
4.-2.2Emissions and Wastes                           48
4.-2.3Packaging, Storage and Handling                48
Requirements
(Cont...



.2
Sr.No.               Title                                Page No.
4.3    M-lanagement of Off-Specification,            51
Discarded and Date-Expired Products
and Wastes
v)               4.3.1  Treatment and Disposal                        51
4 4.3.2  Protection of Shelf-life and Quality        52
of Insecticides
5.0    Policy Issues Related to Vector Control              54
5.1    Sectoral Aapproach                            54
5.1.1  Health Sector Policies                        54
7)               5.1.2  Developmental Sector Policies                 59
5.1.3  Agricultural Sector Policies                  60
5.1.4  Environmental Sector Policies                 60
3                5.1.5  Legal, Regulatory and Institutional           60
2                       Aspects
6.0    Environmental Management Plan                        62
7.0    Research and Development Required                     66
Under MCP
8.0    Role of NIEEPRI in EA During the Continuance          70
4               0.of MICP
.9        9.0    Recommendations                                       70
9.1  Broad Recommendations                           70
9.2  Specific Recommendations                        72
9.3  Long term Recommendations                       74
References                                           75
Ann a ures                                           77



LIST OF TABLES
Sr.No.               Title                                Page No.
Table 1   Analysis of Current and Proposed                    9
Malaria Control Activities in India
Table 2   Summary of Methods for Mosquito Control            17
through Environmental Management
Table 3   Relative liazard of Different Strategies           29
with Insecticides used in MCP in India
Table 4   Relative Hazard of Medicated Bednets               29
Table 5   Relative Hazard of Larvicides Used                 30
in Urban M4alaria Scheme
Table 6   Comparative Per Capita Cost of Different           34
Components of Malaria Control Methods at
1996 Prices
Table 7   Comparative Cost of Indoor Residual                35
Spraying in India to Cover One MIllion
Population  Per Annum Based on Prices
During 1995-96
Table 8   Comparative Cost of Larviciding                    36
in India to Cover One MIllion
Population Per Annum Based on Prices
During 1995-96
Table 9   Comparative Cost of Medicated Mosquito             37
Bednet (MMB) to Cover one Million
Population Per Annum
Table 10  Activities Chart for Environmental                 67
Management Plan
'4



LIST OF FIGURES
N
Sr.No.               Title                                Page No.
Figure 1 Malariogenic Stratification of India                4
Adopted by Malariogenic
Stratification Committee 1986
Figure 2  Options Available for Selective Vector            22
Control
Figure 3  Areas Showing Resistance of A. Culicifacies    31
to DDT, Dieldrin and Malathion
Figure 4  Location Map of Some of the Major                 47
Pesticides Industries
Figure 5  Three Tier EMIS for Malaria Control               58
. .
q
w



-Io
ABBREVIATIONS
ABER      Annual Blood-Smear Examination Rate
ACD       Active Case Detection
AGLF      Aviation Gasolene Lead Free
a.i.      active ingredient
API       Annual Parasite Incidence
BHC       Benzene Hexa Chloride
CPCB      Central Pollution Control Board
DDT       Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloroethane
EA        Environmental Assessment
EDPT      Early Diagnosis and Propt Treatment
EMM       Environmental Management Methods
EMP       Environmental Monitoring Plan
EPS       Expanded Polystyrene
i           g         gram
GOI       Government of india
HCH       Hexachloro Cyclo Hexane
IDVC      Integrated Disease Vector Control
:*        IEC       Information, Education and Communication
imCS      Integrated Malaria Control Strategy
IlIS      Information Management System
IRS       Indoor Residual Spray
KAP       Knowledge, Aptitude and Practices
kg        kilo-gram
LD=0      Lethal Dose showling 50% mortality
_I.U%l    Malaria Action Programme
MC?      IMalaria Control Programme
-milli-gram
;        t-IMLO     Mosquito Larvicidal Oil
1 rL.,1N  Medicated Mosquito Bednet
5QIN(M)    Medicated Mosquito Bednet (Mass use)
1D24N(S)    Medicated Mosquito Bednet (Selective use)
MPO       iModified Plan of Operation
-   'eIPWi  Multipurpose Worker
MPRC      Malaria Research Centre
NMCP      National MIalaria Control Programme
N EP      National Malaria Eradication Programme
NEERI     National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
o?        OrganoDhosphorus
PCD       Passive Case Detection
Pf        Plas.moaodium falciparum
PHC       Primary Health Centre
PRTL      Regional Testing Laboratory
SP        Synthetic Pyrethroids
S?CB      State Pollutation Control Board
SPR       Slide Positivity Rate
S-VC      Se zctive Vector Control
r, , -Io. i         Ban};
WHiSO     Wo_-ld iHealth Organisation



ii-
Executive Summary
Though  malaria  declined  from 75 million  cases  with  0.8
million  deaths annually about half a century back to about 2   o
2.5  million cases with about 200 to 1100 deaths during the  last
decade,  it continues to be a major health concern in India  with
increasing  incidences  of P. falciparum infection  and    deaths
during the last five years.  The strategy of malaria control  was
changed from time to time.  The vertical programme was changed tc
horizontal  one for case detection and treatment thrcugh  primary
health care system.  The Government of India appointed an  Expert
Committee on malaria in 1995  following malaria epidemics in  the
country.  The committee laid down criteria for selection o,  high-
risk  and  hard-core areas for instituting  control  measures  or
priority.
]   :
Integrated Malaria Control Strategy is community based which
proposes  balanced  emphasis on selective vector  control,  earl>
diagnosis  and  prompt treatment,  personal  protection  meap-reE
including  extensive use of medicated mosquito  bednets  whe  ver
feasible, epidemic prediction & control and capacity building fo,
'Jmanpower  development. As a primary preventive step, however,  it
As  necessary to carry out control of mosquitoes  by  eliminatinc
their breeding sites in the house, around the house, and in thE
community and by maintaining proper sanitary conditions when sucr
, -a      breeding sites are eliminated.
The cost of selective vector control alone is presently  '4'
of the total project cost which is expected to be reduced to  1i5.
in  future.   The  two broad categories  of  vector  control  fo-
malaria   are  adulticide  activities (or  IRS)  and  anti-larva
activity.  IRS  consumes  a  large part  of  the  present  budget
allocated for Malaria Control Programme. Anti-larval activity, i
turn, encompasses use of chemical larvicides and biologica
larvicides  (e.g.  bacteria  and  larvivorous  fish)  and  sourc-
- .        reduction.   It  costs almost twice, four times and four  &  hal-
times  as  much  of DDT and 8HC to  use  lindane,  malathion  an~
deltamethrin  respectively  in  IRS.   Chemical  larvicides   anrt
relatively inexpensive compared to mosquito larvicides oil (MLO)
Bti  and  B. sphaericus which are respectively  2.7,3.1  and  3.
-i .2        times  as much expensive.  The annual cost per capita of MMNs  i
slightly  less  expensive than IRS with malathion or any  of  th
synthetic pyrethroids.  It is, however, more than twice the  cos
Sof  IRS with DDT or BHC and at least 1.5 times the cost of  earl
detection and prompt treatment (EDPT) at any of the annual  bloc
examination  rates  (ABERs)  and slide  positively  rates  (SPRs
1 .'         given.   However, the efficacy of synthetic insecticides used  i
^ D        IRS   is  reduced  by  the  development  of   vector   resistanc
(resistance  refers  to  below  80%  mortality)  and,  therefore
incremental cost benefits of IRS are off-set by the disadvantage   g
associated with loading the environment with these chemicals.
Anti-larval  inter  ~ntions  are feasible  only  with  t  i 1
identifiable  breeding   1aces  and  are  thus  of  limited  use



Source reduction techniques such as drailacJe and land  management
can have significant effects in mainly urban areas, planned human
settlements,   or   development  projects.    Therefore,   source
reduction cannot assume a major p .rt of malaria control  project.
There  is a mixed reaction about che use of larvivorcus  fish  to
predate  on mosquito larvae as t:ieir effectiveness is yet  to  be
proved in field trial and as some of these fish have reported to
have  an  adverse effect on other fish species  and  on  mosquito
predators.
Numerous  studies  on  pyrethroid treated  MMNs  in  several
countries have shown high mortality of nuisance insects though
the  efficacy of MMINs against An. Stephensi and An.  culicifacies
is  yet to be established  for malaria control  purposes.   Also,
community  participation  is necessary to make the  use  of  MMNs
sustainable.
Among the conventional insecticides, BHC will be phased out
from 1997 and the use of DDT will be reduced in the coming years.
Policy issues related to vector control through sectoral
approach involving health, developmental projects, agriculture
and     environmental    sectors    have    been         highlighted.
Intezministerial  and  interdepartmental  collaboration  on   the
prop.e  use oLf insecticides and other containment measures against
malaria have been suggested. The developmental projects should
incorporate safeguards against vector-borne diseases at the
planning stage itself. The use of insecticides in agriculture
and health should be properly managed to avoid precipitation of
resistance in malaria vectors. The environmental sector should
include officials from health sector for incorporating health
safeguards in the projects.
Eliciting intersectoral collaboration on routine basis may
require legal support and provisions should be made through
appropriate amendments, extension of existing laws or by framing
new  law-s.  The Insecticide Inspector should be well  trained  in
safety  aspects.   The  pesticides  testing  laboratories  (about
forty)  in  the  country  should  be  involved  in  environmental
management   plan.   The   developmental   projects   with    the
representation  of  the  Directorate  of  NMEP  would   undertake
project related malarial control. A national task force should
be established to develop and implement vector control and
disease prevention measures which are environmentally friendly.
The management information system covering all endemic districts
should be developed and interfaced with other sectors for
implementing integrated malaria control through intersectoral
coordination geographical information system (GIS) should be
employed to generate scenarios in malaria control programme.
Envtironmental   management   plan,  essential   for   proper
mronitoring of v ctor control measures is delineated. Insecticidal
polluticn  should  be avoided and guidelines  issued  by  various
authorities  should  be  strictly  implemented.   The  change  of
insecticides  should be judiciously planned.   The  environmental



..       impact  and risk assessment should cover all hazardous  chemicals
associated   with   the  programme.    The   institutions   whose
'r      involvement  associated  with  the  programme  for  environmental
->      management plan and manpower development are required are listePA
An  activity  chart for the  environmental  management  plan
.*       depicting  required activities, measurable  outputs,  responsible
person(s),  time schedule and resources and complianc_  tools  is
enclosed.   This document also carries a set of  broad,  specific
and long term recommendations.
_.
-i
*Th
D
.J



mZVIPR0z'L-.L !ASSESSIETT    I IA,1ARIA COARCL PROJECT FOR
N1ORLD _. FODIT3 G.
X   ~1.       -^   E
1.1.  IIntroduction
Malaria in India contribuces mortality, morbidity as well
as social and economic loss. Prior to the launching of
National Malaria Control Programme (NNICP) in 1953, it  was
estimated that malaria incidence was about 75 million with
0.8  million   deaths  every  year.  Had  the   endemicity
continued  at the same pace, today there would  have  been
196  million  cases  with  more than  two  million  deaths
annually.
The   launching  of  the  National   Malaria   Eradication
Program.me  (INIEP)  in  1958  markedly  brought  dcwn   the
morbidity to less than 0.1 million cases with no mortality
by 1965. Unfortunately due to technical, financial and
operational bottlenecks, there was resurgence of malaria
reaching  the  peak  of 6.4 million cases  in  1976.   The
deterioration    in   malaria    situation    necessitated
introduction of Modified Plan of Operation (MPO) and
hitherto vertical programme was changed to horizontal
operation for case detection and treatment components
through  the  Primary  Health  Care  (PHC)  System.    The
malarious areas were reclassified according to the Annual
Parasite Incidence (API) instead of old epidemiological
classification based on enlargement of spleen rates among
children.  The change in the strategy paid quick dividends
and the incidence was brought down to 2-2.5 million cases
every   year.   However  the  proportion   of   Plasmodium
Zfalciparum  was 9.7 1 in 1977 which showed a  gradual  and
consistent  increase reaching the peak of 43.4 2 in  1991.
The   same   was  39.4k  and  34.5h  in  1994   and   1995
respectively.   On  account of increase in  P.  falciparum
(Pf) ratio, the deaths due to malaria exhibited increasing
trend.    A  study  carried  out  by  the  NMEP  in   1995
(unpublished)   suggests   that  malaria  in   India   was
responsible for economic losses between 0.5 and 1.0
billicn USD annually (0.2 to 0.4 oL India's CDP).
The   increase  in  malaria  (especially  Pf)   has   been
attributed mainly to increasing unsanitary conditions, man
r..ade   degraded~ environmental  conditions    poor   spray
cove-age coupled with precipitation of vector resistance
to  ccnventional  insecticides, varying  degrees  of  drug
resist-  -e,   inability   of  the  states  to  n.eet  the
cperat  7al expenditure for spraying and vacancies in  the
keQy pCp     in malaria control departmnents.
I



'In 1994, India experienced outbreaks of malaria in the
states of Rajasthan and some north eastern states  leading
to  inireased  number  of  deaths.   An  Expert  Committee
(1995)   was constituted whiclh suggested crash  strategies
to bring down malaria as well as long term measures in
high endemic areas.  The recent outbreaks of malazia  have
provided  insight  and provoked  changes  and  intensified
malaria control activities throughout the country.
As  a part of the malaria control project with  the  World
Bank financing, the work of Environmental Assessment  (EA)
has been allocated to National Environmental Engineering
Research Institute, Nagpur in the month of March, 1996 cn
the terms of reference given in A=nex-l.
1.2    lrialaria Control Sltrategies
1.2.1  Past Strategy
Adult-Vector Control Measures followed by Surveillance
A)  N>-TCP  (1953-1958)    The Strategy of  malaria  control
was :
Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) of Muman  dwellings
and cattle sheds with DDT (1 g/m ), one or two
rounds per annum
Malaria Surveys to monitor malaria incidence
Making  available  of  drugs  whenever  a  patient
reported to an institute. The NMCP was expanded in
phases covering finally 165.57 million population
through Control Units.
B)      NE P  (1958-1977) : The strategy in  National  Malaria
Eradication Programme was :
Coverage  of all human dwellings and cattle  sheds
through  Indoor Resi ual Spraying (IRS)  with  tw
rounds of DDT (1 g/m  per round) or BHC (0.2  g/m
per round, three rounds a year as a substitute to
DDT  to  overcome the sh rtage  in the  import  of
DDT) or malathion (2 g/m per round, three rounds
a year) from 1969 onwards in areas where the
principal rural vector, Anopheles culiclifacies,
was found resistant to DDT and BEC. Focal spray in
50 houses in and around every positive case was
also given in areas where IRS was either withdrawn
or not undertaken.
Antilarva'   operations  conducted   with   weekl
a,plicati 1 of Mosquito Larvicidal Oil  C(MLO)  (1
lt/50  s- -re or linear metres).  The  larviciding



continued in all endemic urban areas and semi-arid
rural areas where An. stephensi breeds in water
storage containerq. Aviation Gasoline Lead Free
(AGLF  : 90  ml/m-)  was  applied   for  treating
drinking water sources. Gambusia fish also was
introduced in many states as a biological  control
measure.
Case  detection was effected  through  fortnightly
domiciliary visits (Active Case Detection-ACD) and
with   the  help  of  voluntary  health   agencies
(Passive   Case  Detection-PCD)  and   presumptive
treatment of all fever cases with chloroquine as a
single oral dose of 600 mg per adult.
Anti-mosquito    and    anti-parasitic    measures
implemented through vertical infrastructure in
NMEP..
Initial results of the programme were excellent and
malaria morbidity and mortality were brought to the
lowest possible extent in 1965. However, due to
operational, technical and administrative constraints,
focal  outbreaks   of  malaria  took  place.  In  1977
Modified Plan of Operation (MPO) was launched.
C)  11PO-"-KEP  (1977 to 1994)    The control  strategy  wa
modified as :
IRS with DDT/HCH/malathion in areas showing AP
and above during the preceding three years,
Weekly antilarval measures in identified areas   :h
MLO or organophosphorus compounds, temephos (   9-
a.i.)  or fenthion (100 g a.i.) per  hectare    :er
surface
Case  detection  and  treatment  provided       rough
Primary Health Care Systems.
An  in-depth  evaluation committee was  appoint    by  the
Government  of India in 1985 to review the wor'  3 of  MPO
and,  as  a  follow-up  of  the  recoamendati        of  this
cotr_ittee,   =Zlar_i cgnnic  str-atiUf7cti4on  C'   _tee   Was
appcinted in 1986.  The coLziittee divided L    .,untry into
seven strat.- (rig. 1) based on 14 differern    iables  and
spelt  the priority and type of measures U        undertak-en
in  different strata. Another attempCt was   _2 in 1990  to
develop a methodology fo- malariogenic st   fication as a
tool for malaria ccntrol.  based on six v.- .ables, namely
topcgraohy
rainfall
vectcr prevalence
average API of the preceding fiv-    -s



- f.
INDIA              S
4AMAAf   r tAS-  j4   PALARlOG-MtC  STPATIFICAT(CN
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~
"Sb~~OA ASAT
*s%ai 'A) s   -\S            2   _
(~~~
-- ,,- --, -                                             £:
$.E,-;-s~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    *0 - C 
''s '   'i''ll 4',   t\\''2t,~~~~~~~~~, =
Fi:. 1: ~~'-cr-cc 4 iz.t~on of rindia adop'tod by Nialario-monic Stratificatior Ccm-rnrnee 1 986
a~  Non  refractory   a re as   wit h   I ow  t o  moderate  e pi Thiic
potential  of  South  India:
b .      - Moderately    refractory    areas    with    high    ePirmie
potential of- Central-Western  India'.
c'    Non  refractory  areas  with  m                toderate  to  high  epidmic
potential  of; South-eer India:
potential o f '.'c :-t'i- - 'lestern India-,
*i'       Non  refractory  areas  with   limited  epidemic   potential
in  \'orthern  ind, ristern  tndI n:
1 C f  r n e t 0 rf y    n e  - -   tVi   h  h I i   h  r e c cp t i v i t y  Mf n  I  * :i 
por fn  Inl   In  C ^entrnl -Fatcrrt nrin   Fns t (rr  Indi n:  nnd
f  'nf r c t n r y n - en sa   W   h ,I . h r ec v   ip t I t v  I n 'i  0
T  St ::  t 11



eDidemic potential
<          . o~~vulnerability.
The  model was tried in Karnatak;a State which was  divided
into  five  strata.  The malariogenic  stratification  was
extended in a phased manner to other states like  Gujarat,
Rajasthan,   Andhra   Pradesh   and   Maharashtra.       The
malariogenic  stratification  was  taken  up  as  a  pilot
project   with   the  assistance  of  the   World   Health
Organisation   (WHO). It  has  been  observed  that   the
malariogenic stratification requires to be further refined
as a tool for control of malaria.
After  the  recent  outbreaks,  the  Expert  Committee  05
Malaria (1995) identified high risk/worst affected areas
in both rural and urban situations for intensification  of
control  measures.  Subcentre with a population of 3  -  5
thousand serves as a unit for undertakina different
control measures.  Thus the malariogenic stratification of
the country has percolated from one million population  as
a  unit  in 1960s down to 3 to 5  thousand  population  in
1996.   There is a need to develop microstratification  to
village  level  especially for IRS and for  monitoring  of
insecticide resistance status.
1.2.2  Present Strategy
The E.pert Committee1 laid down the following criteria for
select'ion of high risk/epidemic prone and hard-core area..
A.    1tural. Areas
Recorded   deaths  due  to  malaria   (on   clinical
diagnosis   or    microscopic   confirmation)   with
P.  falciparum  infection  during  the  transmission
period with evidence of locally acquired infection
in  an  endemic area, during any of the  last  three
years
Doubling  of the slide positivity rate (SPR)  during
the  last three years provided the SPR in second  or
third year reaches 4% or more
Wher;- SPR does rnt show the doubling trend as  above
but the average SPR of the last three years is 5  oG-
more
P. falciparum proportion is 30% or more provided the2
SPR is 3% or more during any of the last three years
An  area  having  a  focus of chloroquine  r-sistant
P. falciparum.   A chloroquine resistant PHC will be
characterised by detection of more than 25% of R. IL
and R III level cases in a minimum sample of 30
cases.



*   .  TroIpical agregaltion of labour ill project areas
New settlements in endemic/receptive and  vulnerab-
B.    Urban Areas
The  high  risk  urban  areas  identified  by  the  Expert
Committee are as follows
All  15 cities identified as high risk arezr by  the
Expert Committee. (vide .rtnex-2).
Among  the remaining cities/towns presently  covered
under UVS, the SPR 10% and above during any of the
last  three  years.  The  Expert  Committee  further
identified 14 cities/towns under this criterion.
(vide A-nve-3)
* .   Any other urban area with a population oF 50,000  or
more and SPR more than 5 * or the ratio of  clinical
malaria cases to fever cases more than one third  as
per  hospital/dispensary statistics during the  last
calendar year.
The high risk rural and urban areas are to be accorded toD
priority  for  transmission  intervention  measures.   F
other areas the guidelines given under MPO-NVM4EP will Le
applicable.
The Integrated Disease Vector Control (IDVC) is the  ideal
strategy for malaria control supplemented with  deployment
of  larvivorous fish and environmental management  methods
in urban situations.
1.2.3.  iajo-r Corstraints -n T--lem=nting Iaaria Control
-,              The  major  technical  and  operational  difficulties   in
imDlement-ing malaria control in India are as follows
Gradual  iΩc-e-se  in Pf  mala-ia  and  reporting  of
varying  degrees of drug resistance  to  conventional
drus.
Devolo,.e- of vector res4stance to one, two c- three
,  cornventincal insecticides in use
Maj-or  ch=ages  associated  with   inr.us_:ialisatic'.,
urbanrisat-on,  river  valley  prcjects,  and   others
-  le-adin   to environmental degradaticn  a;-d  i.ncreaF i
malaricgenic potential.



Case  detection and treatment are delayed because  of
number of vacancies of peripheral level staff.
For IRS, sbcentre (3000-5000 population) is taken  as
the  unit.  The  sates  are  not  able  to  meet  the
operational  wages for spraying,  thereby leading  to
poor  coverage.  Some  states  delayed  sanction   of
operational  expenditure  for spray as well  as  cash
assistance to local bodies.
w  .    Insecticides  could  not be supplied in time  by  the
manufacturers  on many occasions delaying or  denying
spray operations in target areas.
-.              .   The quality of insecticides was sometimes found to be
very inferior.
There   was  shortage  of  antimalarials,  especially
8-aminoquinolines in the country and drugs could not
be imported immediately due to global shortage
=   Socio-cultural patterns  of  the beneficiaries  some-
times hamper the malaria control efforts.
1.2.4 Need for Cbange in the lIalaria Control Strategy
Strategies for prevention and containment of epidemics
should centre around
Selective vector control
Early diagnoses and prompt treatment
Personal protection
. Epidemic planning & response
* InLormation, education and communication
A  Institutional & capacity strengthening
Further, the WHO Study Group on vector control for malaria
and other vecto- borne diseases (Geneva, 16-24 November,
1993) recomm.ended the following approaches in  re-planning
control programmes in South East Asia Region (WHO, 1994)
* to undertake stratification as means for selective  and
cost-effective vector control strategy
- to  establish  criteria for planning  and  prioritizing
vector  control  aimed  at  reducing  indoor   residual
_                  sspraying  and increasing other vector control  measures
based on local epidemiological characteristics and
resource availability
to  manage  vector  control  activity  through  primary
healt'h care.
at7:   - rt.ia_ns to be added to the aforesaid strategy is  the
envi--cnmcental   control  of  mosauitoes   by   eliminating



breeding sites in the lhouse, around -he house and in the
com,munity  as elaborated in Table 2 of this  roport  under
environmental management methods (1.2.5). Thereafter it
is necessary to maintain proper sanitation conditions once
such breeding sites are eliminated.
ks  malaria is a local and focal disease,  the  strategies
for its control should be planned at the peripheral level.
The  decision  malking at the local  level  would   promote
quicker   responses  for  m-alari a  control.   To   promote
sustainability,  community  involvement  in  planning  and
implementation is a must. Community involvement would
promote  sustainability  and  ownership.   As  malaria  is
directly or indirectly pronagated by various sectors,  the
involvement of these sectors in malaria control activities
is necessary.
The  overdependence on one or more components  of  malaria
control is to be avoided. There is reed for u±ncrtaking  a
balanced view of the various interventions  -ale   and
use them as per the prevailing local needs. This -'z-up
approach will need upgradation cf technical kznowledge and
skills at the state, district and PEC levels by intensive
training. To makce the people aware of the malaria  control
strategies,   an   improved  Informaticn,  Education   and
C-m^unication   (IC) has to be developed.  Involvement  of
the  local  health staff in the decision  making  process,
p-omotion oL ccmunity participation and sectoral approach
will go  a long way to make the programme sustainable  and
acce-ptable.
sA  analysis of the adecuacy of coverage of  environmental
and social issues by the current and proposed malaria
c.ntrol activities are showqn in Table 1.
1.2.5  r=no0ed In-egrarted U!alar4  Control Stratesy (INICS)
Malaria Control Project submitted fcr World Bank Financing
aims  to  carry  out  all the  above  interventions  in  a
balanced and cost-effective manner.  The determination  of
comrLoonents of malaria control to be undertaken will depend
>pon,
inthensitv of mala-ia transmission,
'Vector behaviour,
Geographical locaticn,
* r,pe  of human habita-ion
socio-cultural behaviour o- th.e ccmmunity.
_o: ' 7CS
* ~'m;.jor cc--oC!.:itzs 0  IMCS .r:
elec~ivé vector control,
T?:'v->~ ~'A ~.-'---c--_sc d -   n-crnpm   t- Cnt



.'' L::!J t  J L     .-J L:J L: ? LJ :  .:: L : lj  Li L L L:I Lna   L' LU  t_ r.1:........U ........ 111 L.ZI Laj LJ L-.:1 .Z. L1  i   L-  LJ L  L tAi    . I 1
A) o t; tj IJ U  U  (j 4J '~) U- ii (J U  -JB   t, J) .b 3I tj {j '          s C)  w C'- TJ' J/ ,           t'}    i}.
Table  1   Analysi  of Current  and  Proposed  Malaria  Control
Activities in India
Component    Current Activities            Constraints with           Measures In the          Potential Economic
Current Activities        Proposed Project          Gainc
Adulticidal Activities       Adulticidal Activities   Adulticidal Activities   Aduldticidal Activ._ticr
Selective    - IRS is carried out witl  -  Poor efficacy of           - Increased use of        - More money availaLle for
Vector          DDT, BHC and Malathion        DDT, BIHC & Malathion    newer insecticides         activities othier than
Cont' )l                                      due to vector resis-    especially in the           IRS under malaria
tance resulting          areas of tripple           control
resistance & drug
resistance
- Subcentre is unit for    -  Poor beneficiary         - Village will be the    - Cost-effective
spray                         compliance               unit for spray             approach
operation
- An area with an API        -  Poor operational       - IRS to be restricted   - Improved beneficiar'y
of 2 or more for              coverage                 to highly endemic          compliance
three consecutive                                      areas
years was sprayed                                                               - Reduced environmental
pollution as persistant
insecticides. are to be
replaced by degradable
ones.
Lnrvicidal .Activity         Llrvicidal Activity       Larvicidal Activity        Larvicidal ctiviIy
- Use of Temephos,           -  Efficacy in terms of  - Increased use of          - Decreased environen:er- '
Fentliion, EThO               malaria cases/deaths    biolarvicides and           toxicity
prevented is not         larvivorous fish
established



Cconoanunt    Current Activities           Constraintu with           Meanures in the            Potential Econonic
Current Activitiea         Proposed Project          Gains
-  Fenthion is toxic to  - Implementation of         - Increased involvement of
mammals                   environmental             other sectors in malaria
management through        control with some cost
intersectorial            sharing
collaboration
*.arly        - Laboratory diagnosis       -  microscopic             - establisti one micro-   - more cases detected early
rfctection      is by microscopy, with        diagnosis delayed to    scope equipped labora-   and treated effectively,
r eatmeIn    aDproximately one              the point of being        tory per 30,000             witth resulting decrease
laboratory per 100,000        useless                   population                  in morbidity and mortality
population
- front-line detection       -  no organized referral - make "dipstick tests"
and treatment by FTDs         system for severe         available on a trial
or complicated cases    basis for diagnosis
in emergency situa-
tions
-  although efficacious  - involve private
drugs exist, there        physicians
is ineffective dist-
ribution to front-line
(Cotit ...



a.__ ._ i >-~J  ~   lsL-4  L~  1L24 LZA  ~jJ  I LJ Lzg   iJ L::-,) LIZ'  _:'._  LZJ
Component    Current Activities           Cosntraints with           Measures in the           Potential Economic
Current Activities         Proposed Project          Gains
- increased number of
DDCs/FTDs
- establish system of
MILVs
- make adequate drug
supplies available
to the DDCs, FTDs,
MPW1s and MLVs
- Make artemesinine
injectibles available
for complicated cases
- equip PUICs to treat
severe and complicated
cases of malaria
Personal       limited studies of         -  efficacy against       - large scale studies    - decreased rmalaria cases
Protection     medicated mosquito            major Indian vectors    of MMNs with gradual        and deaLhs
nets (MMNs)                  has yet to be             implementation in       - Increased community
experiementally          areas where it is          participation with resulting
tested                   found to be cost-          improvements in complianee
effective                 and coverage
Epidemic     - preventive activities    -  programme is not         - improved epidemiologic - preventioni of early control
Planning &     are planned based dn          equipped to detect       monitorincg and            of epidemics which are other
Response       epidemiologic data            and prevent/combat        identification of risk  wiise very costly to combat.
collected previous           emerging epidemics        factors for epidemics    and result in morbidity a-l
year                                                                             mortality
(Cont  ...



j t ; <. tJ t) U  tJ )  {.1 () ew v.) 0  .vt j a  <; v  J  * 9  0  t) w  w  b  6  z. w. 6  /, 2  t  ¢, (, iv ,  /, t  )  (,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. '  ,.A       I    .  V ,  .
Cc- ,DcIant    Current P.ctivities         Conotrainto *itth           MSeasureur in the             Potential EconoriRc
Current Activities         Proposed Project              Gains
- fromation of Emergency
Preparedness Committees
at the district level
for mobilization of
resources
- malaria epidemic cells
at the district level
for prompt action to
combat epidemics
Inrorrnation, - dissemination of           ^  IEC does not address  - decentralized, local   - IEC more likely to meet the
Education       centrally produced             the needs and             IEC planning and            needs of targeted comrnunitie
and Com.rr,u-   communicationi materials       concerns of the           implementation with an   resulting in decreased
nication        to the state, district         targeted populations    emphasis on culturally   morbidity and mortality
and block level                                          appropriate messages
Institut-    'rrainina                     Traininq                    Training                    Traininq
io.nal        - rouitine traiining of      -  training is not          - develop approprate        - improved ability of all
& Capacity      higher level staff             targeted towards the    training rnaterial,           levels of personnel to
Strengthern-                                   needs of personnel        training institu-           respond effectively to
ing                                                                      tions and trainers          problems, resulting in
-  inadequate training       that all level of           decreased malarial
for front-line            officials and func-         morbidity and mortality
peripheral personnel    tionaries are appro-
priately trained
(Cont...)6



C:i,crnnln.    Cuirrnt IcLivities          Conctrainto wtith          tieasures in the              Potential Economic
Current Activities         Proposed Project             Gains
niic~n.nr^.Infonmation      m4anaicpment Information   Management Information   Management Information
_.-ten                     Stntee my te                                           Svatem
- a paper-based informa-   -  data not adequately   - select most important  - recent, locally derived
tion system, with over        used for decision         programme indicators       data is used to plan
17 standard proformae         making at local or                                   the most effective
district level          - development of computer  affordable malaria control
based information          activities
system such as DISNIC
& GIS



I >'              , Personal protection measures,
,.                . IEide-mic prediction and control,
Capacity  building for manpower development
IEC for sustainable community participation.
I              Out of these, the first three components are described  i.-
details in this chapcer
I J~              Selective Vector Control
Selective  'vector control for malaria can be divided  into
} >'              two broad categories
I                 .  .Adulticide activities through selective indoor residual
| ;                  spray
Anti larval activities using
_
- chemical larvicides
- biological larvicides
I i'                 -  source  control  through  environmental   management
methods
2                 Selective Indoor Residual Spray
IRS  will  be  highly selective  in  terms  of  ti-ee,
coverage and the insecticide used.
Village shall be the unit for IRS.
J .4            .    IRS  will  be undertaken in areas  which  are  highly,
endemic  and  where drug resistance  and  deaths  are
being reported
M.aximum  room coverage of not less than 80%r shall   e
attemoted  to  obtain  a  marked  reduction  in   L-e
3~ _transmission.
-               .   The  householders  should  be educated  not  to  mud-
plaster the houses after IRS.
Envircn-m.ental  friendly and  cost-effective  strategy
using  biological  control  agents  (SCA)  shall   be
dev-1c-ed  by  screening and selecting  an  effective
strain  for  undertakling large  scale  deployment  in
suitable mosc7uito breeding pi-aces.
.   The m.on.hly epidemiological da->- shall be assessed to
-~                   mon ''tor t'_ ned of selective IRS.



:iolog±cal Co-'ro' ,;onts
malaria Research Centre (MRC) has been work-ing .or several
years on various preparations oL Bacillus thuringiensis H-
14   and   Bacillus  sphaericus.  A   large   number   of
preparations of Indian and foreign origin were tested
routinely in MRC but none of them was found suitable.
Either these formulations produced poor kill or the
results  were  not  reproducible.   MRC  then  tested  the
Bactoculicide and Spherix wetable powder formulations of
Russian   origin.    Laboratory   results   were    highly
satisfactory in terms of killing effect on immatures,
residual toxicity and reproducibility. Because of the
importance of biolarvicides in vector control, Government
of India imported 10 metric tonnes (MT) of Bactoculicide
and   40   MT  of  Spherix.   These   biolarvicides   were
distributed to various field units of MRC for field trials
to demonstrate the impact of spraying on (i) breeding of
mosquitoes,  (ii)  adult  mosquito  densities,  and  (iii)
transmission  of malaria and  filariasis.   Simultaneously
toxicological  data are being generated at the  Industrial
Toxicoloaical Research Centre, Lucknow, to ensure the
safety o- biolarvicides to warm-blooded animals.
There are a few characteristic differences between Bti and
B.  sphaericus  : Bti is effective  against  all  moscuito
genera, while B. sphaericus is more toxic against Culex
and some AnopAheles spp. and much less toxic against Aedes.
Bti has a short residual field efficacy for 1-2 weeks,
whereas  B. sphaericus has a  generally  longer  residual
efficacy,   reportedly  for  several  weeks   in   certain
habitats and is said to have a recycling capacity. Bti is
eLffective  in  clear waters while B.  sphaericus  performs
.w,ell even in polluted habitats. Both are non toxic to
non-target organisms and safe to warm blooded animals.
-_=ivorou= _ish
The dominant lar-ivorous fishes adopted in the cour.try's
progra.nne since about half a century are Ga-busia  a;F fin is
followed by Poecilia reticulata  in a rmuch smaller  scale.
Many   indigenous  fishes,  possessing  good   larvivo-ous
activity,  have been identified but not yet put  to  large
scanle  use.  A gocd variety of exotic arnnual  fishes  have
been  assess-s  for  their larvivorous  activity  and  the
Malari-a Control Progra=zLe (MCP) should accord due prioritv
to  .his safLe and cost-effective methods  after  obta-ning
suc=ess in field trials.
cl lo.wing successFul field trials, the NCP shlould  cevej.o.
r. ot"^  f ish ha cheries in every end2rr.ic district arnd Urban
i'iairia  Schlemn3 (U'.IS) toGm nith a aocd stock of  efficient
1sC ;^ri -roouls  fi--l in  collaboration  wit h  theL  fisjer4es
c_Dr-t_.-_nt  1-J' -'hA  a  vS e.;  to  supplying  these  to  the
,--~  .?y.   ±hcé Directorate  Of' 17.   S-' should   aloc=te



specific fundis tc every endemic district and u:S town  for
this cur-ocse.  The NMEP publication gives full details  on
larrLvorous fishes3.
Thoug::h  CGa.rusia  affinis  and Guopy  have  been  able  to
disperse themselves in Indian waters after their import to
India, they have not dominated over Indian fishes. Studies
carried out in Haldwani and Shahjahanpur has revealed that
7               there are natural predators and pathogens of these fishes.
Ex-pnrded Eolystyrnes  (EPS) Beads
The  extensive field studies conducted in  India  revealed
this  method as the best alternative in  certain  breeding
sources  such as disused wells, long standing  stagnant  &
polluted  water collections, etc.  The UMS towns   showing
^ -             SPR  more than 10%-, where accelerated MAP  is  suggested1,
may go for portable EPS bead making-machines and N1r-n
publications  contain useful notes on this strategy.
Eni-r4onmT-ental  an.agem=n4 1ethods (MIZ-)
The  primary breeding habitat of mosauitoes is  water  and
the  basic  recuirement in the  environmental  control  of
mosquitoes is the elimination of breeding sites. Major
-^ Amoscuito  breeding  sites within the house  include  watr
storage containers, animal drinkcing pans and flower vases,
roof gutters and pit latrines.  Mosquito breeding habitats
-Al             around  the  house include rainwater  collected  in  waste
articles  dumped in vacant lots, underground cisterns  and
water  storage  tanks,  wastewater drains,  cesspits,  and
septic  tanks.  In the community, major mosc_4ito  breeding
A^              habitats  include spillages around water  supply  sources,
wasteewater  drains, strom water canals,  casspools,  ponds
and otheer large water bodies, and low-lying vacant plots
Mosqcuito  breedings  in these habitats  can  be  prevented
throuch  environmental  management  practices  which   are
suMM'arised in Table 2.  If these environmental  management
-;practices   are  srupu lously   implemented,   intervention
metho-do'logies with -aecbiotics (insecticides) as  proposed
for  larval  a. d adult mosquito controls  in  the  maalaria
Con.rol P_--_jects o_ zm_P for the w-orld Ban's financing  can
be C5-,S- .-r'ly curtailed resultincr in less  enivironmental
lo--di-.s:ith thesa chericals.
It  ha s  also  -en osserear.   in India  tl.nat  most  cf  the
*  G2t.cp-n a   C_ -'c5s   e thea  in  rub pli c  or   private
Sec -;o~, c~-- . -:-: s_.-.e prcentage_ of projoct cs: on  health
.RS-ctS.  ''C,; o! __ese funds are ut ilii_d  'or  curativr
,s   ;ZI-1u r3-_ c2 Tr --eTnivc a-snects where muChl oL- t1:
r^ s   preventab'lo.   Tus  man-  product-ive
-l7sz, .-       a.sic C1debilitv is  - crea sed  and
_,,,,.__7.,__ _' -  .   s incu rred.



Table    2        Summary  of Nethods  for Mosquito  Control
through  Environmental Management
Actioon                                  Action site           Action to be taken by:
Cover domcstic water storage containers  The house             The individual and the family
Get rid of unwantcd standing watcr       The house             Thc individuai and the fanmily
C,ean roof guctcrs                       The hiouse            The individual and the family
Rcplacc watcr in animal drinking pans.   The housc             The individual and thc famnily
flower vascs, CtC
Eosure provision of properly designed    The house             The family, the community, and
sulWace drains                                                 the local auchority
Ensure proper design and maintenance    The house              Thc family, the community, and
of sanication                                                  the local authority
Store used articles and other refuse in    The house           The family
closed cont;tiners
Screen doors and windows                Thc h ouse            The family
Use mosquito nets and repellents         The house             The individual and thC family
Clean yards and vacanc tots              The surroundings      The individual and tlhz family
Screen underground cisterns and water   The surroundings       The famnily
,torage tan kls. or stock tetTm with
nosquito-eating fish
Ensure proper drainage                   The surroundings      The family. the community. and
the local authority
Control watcr supply sources and ensure  Thic community        Ttie community and thc local
proper drainage                                                authority
Provide prperily designed wastewater    The community          The community and the locil
drains and stormrwat^r canals                                  authority
Drain or fill undesirable water arcas, such   The community    The community and the local
zs ccsspools. puddles, ditches, etc.                           authority
M1odify large bodies of water by impournd-  The cornrnunity    Thc community and thze local
authority
!I,ure adcquate solid wastc collection  The community         The conimmunity and the local
m d d sposal                                                   authority



-.'' D   "^g~J_1 c'r~--   a   c-Wt ai'led   cln   of   actio n
i  v   /    ran     r: ol   malaria in nrojoct areas.   T!zC  project
uth0o-i 4 ies  should  be mado zesponzible-  for  underta:ing
onC-izc  nz eveztive c^-,erations. A ccrt . a proportiona  of
P-03ect  'd should be =-.adatorily utilized  for  mz_laria
prevean.tie  men-ures through st-- _ng pVattoCr   reco=ended
by  D4 recto ate o f     . India has plethora  o' exramples
when the  developmental prcjects during construction stage
acted  as  eciC-ntres for fulminating  malaria  eoidoemics.
Sharda  canal  construction  is  a  classical  exa/:cie  of
malaria    problem   associated   with   water    resource
developmental  proj4ects.   Sardar Sarovar Narrmada  Project
in Gujarat and UKP project in Karnatakan are the few recent
examples where malaria r eached ep|idem.ic proortic.ns during
the constrctin stage of the projects.  A very small area
co:iverted    for   construction   of   steel   plant    in
vishakhaDatnam contributed 7OT of the total malaria cases
in the district. Preventive measures will be most ideal in
such situations than relying on curative aspects.
Th:e  Direc:or  of T4P was m.ade a me.ber OL 54th  to  56th
meeting  cF  the  Envirccnmental  Appraisal  Cormiittee  for
clearance   cf  river  valley  projects  by  Ministr   of
7-vironment & Forests during 1990-91.  The Directcoate  of
N'm prepared gaidelines for prevention of  miosq-.ito-sorne
diseases   like  malaria  and  circulated  to  the   chief
en. ineers of river valley projects.  How-ever, the Director
CF  IT1,170 w7as not involved either in the earlier  or  later
rieOtings of high power ccmmittee.
T-- w C' has to inv-lolv  diFferent sec.o=3 fo'0-
=i' fco  source -eduction.  The Directorate of N=P and IMC
cor ;cd7ate   lardn     e-z'er  of -train4mg  V:orkshops  on  E.2-2.
Adm I  s _r- ri -v- arct -i on is reauired to cocit the  co_cerned
sacc-3 crs to ado0t  revni2 :a<sures.  The Dircto-t   of
I         ould  take  a  lead  role  i.n  this   direction.
Dla-;Sormartal   4iver  Vallay P_rojects should  allocate  at
least  2%- of  the project insuts  or pr-evention  of  vector
bDorne  diseasss.   The 1iinistry of E=vi_o=net  a  Forests
should  z!:e the Directo- of TE=P as a pof.anent n'2r  o
tha pi-ejr Valley pro:jcts Clearance Co-mittee so th-a  the
de-lo   n,---  w:o-k  should  not imnpin;e  on   'e  fragile
healt-h  of  ths- lotorr stra-tun of thz socie-ty  and  on  the
1>i  ^C -eS2'-C_3 ~v2 ailablc 1i7'  the di-ecA or- 2oZ 0 -P .
AlI  urba:n ar: - s- oud si t _ 'I ctIy i lcment  C±ViC  by-lawrs
for  -e--vent` cnr C  Cliinatio  of intrcdoezstic c=d  peri-
dnogc-uic  breedinrg  places  aS  set  by  !IU=ba
(Ecabay) 'unicipa. Cc-nzo--_ '-M. In -=ny E S totns, the by-
la .;s  ;:nara  4ot ait a!-,Lz'   in spite of  prcnulga tion
of  v- ,-y  c '-, 11 5-'-7 ci'S . _- . -   S.   ; C   :::cp ^ould  initiate
C:~~~ t: c    c .   i G 0 7- C 2 _- d l -   c t i O - i n  52_-  n h L, i  1 n  =. t ._- a 7    o f
leg'l Y.o3.0.'  for s <pixg the cnviroazzent  cl    aud
he2 lt ^y,



-.-tD' c'   *    1 2-cz trea -m - (IDnT)
The EDPT componen- differs slightly in Pf predominant
ru--al areas and high risk urban areas.
P-r &cdo_-2nant Rural A.reas
To  make  the drug available at  the  village  level,
FTDs/DDCs will be opened in all high endemic villages
@ one per 1000 population or part thereof.
Malaria Link Volunteers to be  appointed in all  high
endemic   and   remote  villages  0  one   per   2000
population.
The  MPW  will  continue the performance  oL ACD  by
domiciliary visit at fortnightly interval and   guide
the voluntary agencies.
The  severe and complicated malaria cases are  to  be
promptly  referred to PHC after collecting the  blood
smear and administering presumptive treatment.
Every  PHC  in  high risk areas  should  serve  as  a
referral centre equipped with life saving drugs and
equipment   for  timely  management  of  severe   and
complicated malaria.
The  DM0 in consultation  with the  concerned  MO-PHC
should mobilise the active participation of private
practitioners and clinics for EDPT.
All personnel at different tiers as well as voluntary
organisations should be imparted requisite training
on essential comPonents for successful implementation
cf EDPT.
EDPT in Urban --d Penri-Urban Areas
Case detection and treatment component in urban and peri-
urban areas need to be properly organised. The following
action is suggested
EDPT through ACD to be established in all slum  areas
w%hich mostly ser-ve as focal points for  dissemination
o  infection.
*   All  hb  ita.ls  an-i disensaries to  be  strengthened
with  a  alar--ia post for screening fever  cases  from>
OPD  and to give rresumctive treatment.  A11  malaria
pos-t4ve  c-ses microsccoically confirmed a-e  to  bLe
ivenl radical treatmeent without delay.



In~ pcra-urben  areas, PCD to be carried  out  on  oimilar
lines  of- urban  malaria preferably with the  help  of  a
-'-7r7^o0nal' ?roWec'tio   eazsures
The personal protection measures mainly comprise of
Selection of proper house site and mosauito proofing of
house,
Zooprophylaxis (animal barrier),
Use of clothing,
Use of mosquito repellents, creams, oils, mats, etc.
* Use of bednets/curtains impregnated with insecticides.
The use of first four methods and their relatve impacts
are well-known to all malariologists in the country  which
are   purely   individual  oriented  methods   with   many
limitations which are briefly given in Aznex-4. The last
method (impregnated bednets) which is the latest advent to
malaria control is discussed in detail which possesses
very   high   potential   for   curtailment   of   malaria
transmission,   if  deployed  with  intensified  IEC   for
community  participation.   Extensive  field  trials  were
carried  out  in many parts o' the world  using  medicated
mosquito  bednets  (MMN) in many  malaria  endemic  areas.
This method could be taken up in India on a pilot scale in
different geographical areas and its further extension to
other  areas  could  be  decided  after  the  outcome   of
successful pilot studies.
It  has been observed in the field studies in  India  that
the synthetic pyrethroids (SP) are technically effective
to  repel  or  kill the vector for six  months  after  one
treatment  of bednets and certain proportion of  community
can aFford to buy their own bednets and sachets of SP  for
re-im-cregnaticn.  Community cooperation and  participation
wil1 make this method sustainable.   The areas having well
orcanised  Gram Panchayat,  Mahila Mandals and also  where
tribal  develcomnent  or  social welfare  and  health  care
delivery system are fully staffed will be highly suitable
for nilot studies.
The  follo.ing  criteria are suggested for  the  country's
27~-r-S-e for -iOloTmernt of rig4 strategy
T:^. S-PR d;ring the n--eced-n7 thre-2 ccnsecutive  years
-s less  n'-. 5   a- and the village does not come  unde-
hin    rics; a-ea a? nr- thel criteria laid dovwIn bhy  the
*   ':'~  t--.:--.;SSiOn d?aynamiCcs s>'Dculd in-dic,ae   thatetbh
M^1-_Oi1_.       an i nd5loor biter and thn  bi ting  starts
afetr  5 n.a. i.c. ' . :-!t^     ..nts could  go  to
SC _2. _  .2_W_w__*_Cv'   C '  D'  L 1 '1 .,



The use of bednets is practised in areas where pecole
readily accept this method.
It  is suitable in high malarious areas  like  'Jhum'
(shifting) cultivated areas where IRS is nct feasible
or in other areas where sericulture/honey-bee culture
is a cottage industry. It should be ensured that
impregnation  of  bednets should not be done  in  the
vicinity of such sensitive areas.
No  IRS should be undertaken simultaneously in  areas
where MMN is introduced.
There  should be flexibility to change  the  strategy
according to local situation.
The   Directorate  of  NMEP  should  prepare   and   issue
guidelines on the distribution system of MMNs emphasizing
the need to propagate MMN as a public health measure for
malaria control and not merely for personal protection.
Monitoring system is to be developed on the use of MriN and
the impact on vectors as well as malaria incidence.    The
guidelines for medication of bednets and tabular summary
of personal protection measures   are given in it-Anext-4.
The  integrated  vector  control  strategy  must  consider
optimisa tion  of  insecticides  application  (for   vector
control  and  personal  protection)  and  bioenvironmental
control  measures  in  such a  mAnner  that  the  residual
impacts are minimized through balancing each approach
(Fig. 2).
1.3    The Role of Environmental Assessment in Project Design and
Ilonitoring
IRS,  the main control activity of NMEP, warrants  use  of
chemical insecticides such as DDT, BHC, and malathion.
However, insecticides have a limited useful life in vector
control due to pronounced changes in vector behaviour and
their  susceptibility  to  insecticides.   In   principle,
selection of residual insecticide against the susceptible
endonhilic vector populations so as to interrupt/curtail
transmission to levels where the disease can be managed by
the  existing  priLmary health care system  should  be  the
bottom  line.  The ',Y.HO study group on vector  control  for
malaria  and  ot-her vector borne diseases  (Geneva,  16-24
November,  1993) recomr.ends undertalking of  stratification
as a means of planning s2lective and cost effective vector
control  strategy.  The district under question, needs  to
be stratified based on disease profile and epidemiolo,ical
Lterm=inants  for  the develoom,ent of  situation  snecz_-ic
ve2ctor  ccn,rol  system for each homogenous zone  for  t.e
l2emen-anta:ion oF _'he most cost effective, acceptable  arnd
;sutainnable    iitie-vention    strategy.    Spraving    of
inseCticidi-s  witusst ccnsidering stratif. caticn may      d



|SELECT- VECTOR CONJTROL 
I ~_                                                        ____IlL 
..PUY     t    S IiiE-C T OR LR,V, '!  INDOOR RESIDUAL         PERSOPL FO, Y. ,CIC
.' '':' '' - '_'':_;'    '':- "i';-;. at9U@'JY   . CONMOL  SPRAYING                   MEASUliES
o Drainage to avoi(J     H1 OILS             Temephos          a DDT and other OCs           o M,MlNs
'ifnter accumnulation                   o Fenthion           o Malathion and otier         * Repellants
Fillingarshes, a       Pit latrines    o Bti                  OPs                         * Protective
sx/amps, puddles        Disused wells   o Bs                 o Carbamates                     clothings
etc.                                    o Larvivorous Fish    o Synthabc Pyrethroids
o Construct irmi2abon
Works
rED'JCE LARVAL POPULATIONS                                     REDUCE/KILL ADULT VECTOR POPULATION
OR BLOCK MAN - MOSQrrO CONTACT
FHG. 2: OPTIONS AVULABLE FOR SELECTIVE VECTOR CON'FTROL



to the loading of the environment withlout fully attaining
the  goal of malaria control.  After stratification,   the
selection of insecticide will be based on efficacy, cos- &
safety.   It  should,  however, be recognised  that  as  a
primary preventive step, it is necessary to carry cut
environmental  control of mosquitoes by eliminating  their
breeding sites in the house, around the house, and in the
community.   Once this is done, insecticide usage  can  be
curtailed  considerably.  All urban areas should  strictly
implement  civic by-laws for prevention or elimination  of
intradomestic and peri-domestic mosquito breeding places
as set by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. In many umS
towns,   the   by-laws   are   not   implemented   despite
promulgation   of  very  strict civic  by-laws.   The  MCP
should initiate deterrent action for dereliction in the
implementation   of  legal  provisions  for  keeping   the
environment clean and healthy.
Secondly, the policies of sector other than the health
sector (natural resource development sector,  agricultural
sector   affect  the  vector  borne   disease   situation.
Sectorial  environmental assessment is therefore  required
to address to cross sectoral issues related to malaria
management and control which must be internalized in the
policies  of the concerned sector.   Therefore, NMEP  will
be able to coordinate with these sectors to ensure that
all its interventions can be carried out in the most
environmentally friendly manner.
Lastly,  it  is the community  participation  which  shall
ensure   that   the   malaria   control   strategies   are
environmentally friendly and sustainable in the long run.
At microlevel, community involvement proved successful in
industrial malaria control in three industrial areas in
EHEL, Hardware; IDPA, Rishikesh; and IOC, Mathura as
reported  by  Dua and Sharma (Curum,unity  Participation  in
Malaria  Control, Sharma, V.P. ed. pp  115-180.   Malarial
Research  Centre,  ICMR, Delhi, 1993).  According  to  the
authors, when communities are involved, the cost goes dowTn
and large areas can be handled in a short time and field
operations can be sustained.
The  community should, the-refore, be suitably  trained  to
marke it aware about the environmental conseauences related
to  the  prcposed malaria control project  and  about  the
sLeps to be undertaken by the comamunity to avoid  creation
of negative envrironmental impacts with the intervention of
NMEP in case such impacts are unavoidable.
The environmmentl assssm.et, therefor, encono-;sses.
rank:ing  of  insecticides  proposed  to  c_  used  in
selective sector ccntrol prcgra=rre
-L,acs of use of insecticides



* zc-otcral en'ironrental assessment
*    environmental management plan
In addition, EA will identify the R & D needs for  mala2
control, attribute the institutional responsibilities  fur
-              coordination and monitoring of SEA implementation, furnish
.               a  set  of  recomwmendations  for  long  term  sector  wide
compliances.
''h
3



PAIRT II
2.0     .cani-ing oX Insecticides Being used/Proposed to bo Used  in
Selectiv3 V-ector Cont_ol Progrpre
The insecticides used in malaria control programme  should
be  Judged from the benefit and risk factors  involved  in
terms of cost, efficacy and safety.  The cost of selective
vector control alone is presently 74% of the total project
cost which is expected to be reduced to 551 in future.  In
spite of use of DDT for the last half a century in  India,
there  has been no death due to DDT till  date.   However,
taking    into    consideration   the    persistence    of
orcanochlorine   compounds   in   the   environment,   the
Government of India (GOI) decided to completely phase  out
the use of BnC from 1997.  Regarding DDT, the GOI  already
banned  its use in agriculture sector and  restricted  its
use  in  public  health sector to 10,000  metric  tons  or
technical  product.   The actual use of DDT is  far  below
this ceiling.  During the last four years, the use of  DDT
was  belo  4,500  metric  tons  per  annum  in  terms  of
techniical product.
Of  t:he  three  insecticides extensively used  in  MCP  in
India,  malathion has been the least used  compound.   The
averaqe annual consumption of malathion during the last 10
years was about 1000 metric tons which was sufficient to
give protection to 1.1 million population only. The
environmental  pollution caused by insecticides in MCP  is
negligible as compared to that caused by the agricultural
pesticides  and hazardous industrial  pollutants.   During
1994  the total ccnsumption of pesticides in  the  country
was  85,030  metric  tons  while  the  malaria   programme
utilized only 7252 metric tons of insecticides in terms of
technical product. Thus MCP constitutes about 8.5 ∞s of the
total usage of pesticides in the country. The insecticides
in  malaria  control programmre are mostly applied  as  IRS
with trained manpower and suitable equipment resulting in
nil or minimum contamination to food, fodder, water, soil,
air, etc. unlike the agriculture pesticides.
Among larvicides, Mosquito Larvicidal Oil (MLO) is used in
limited  areas.   The  major larvicides used  in  UMS  are
organophosphorus   (OP)  compounds  mainly  temephos   and
fenthion, environmental friendly biological control agents
and  selective  use  of  larvivorous  fish  coupled   w i h
environmental manacement methods wherever feasible.
2.1.    _ ze C. .ns,ct ficidc Z in iialaria Cot-rol Pograzo
In  viet.w of tlhe revised strategy of malaria in .India,  in
consonance  wJith   ! cbbal malaria strategy  recomrmended  by
7W$0,  the  follc-:irg  changes  are  contemplated  in   the
country's progra.r.



2 .1.1  Sc-ctvo Unc of Voctor Control
IRS  will  be  restricted to high  risk,  epidemiC  pron.e,
developmental  project  areas during  construction  phase,
drug resistant areas, and areas recording mortality due to
malaria. a  .Afected villages only will be covered  instead
o0  the entire PIC/subcentre.  It has been observed in many
subcentres  that  one  or two villages out  of  average  8
villages  ccntribute most of the malaria cases.   In  such
situations the reouirement of insecticide for IRS would be
one-fourth  the  quantity  required to  spray  the  entire
subcentre.
2.1.2  Criteria for Selection and Use of insecticides  for
IRS
In  the present criteria (MPO guidelines)  the  subcentres
sno.-ing API-2 and above are covered under IRS.  The  othe-
a-eas are given IRS during emergencies.
Th;e zroposed criteria for IRS are as follows
Vllaues reccrdirn  deaths due to malaria.
Villages in the epidemic grip of malaria or  indicating
likely trends.
*f resistant foci as defined by the Expert Committee1.
Develcrmental  project areas during construction  phase
in endemic belts reco-rding high m-laria incidence.
Sensitive  areas  like  movement  of  military  troops,
transit camps for migratory population due to natural
calamities like floods, cyclones, droughts, earthquake,
and ethnic disturbances.
The above qualifying areas will be subjected to IRS with
the recoimmended insecticide.  In case of double  resistant
areas, malathion will be sprayed while in triple resistant
areas SP compounds will be the insecticides of choice.
2.2.   Safety Classification of Insecticidez
2.2.1  Isnzct-'c±des,  Larrvicides,   -d tar  Rank.ing  and
Safety of Anplication
According to the 1986 F.TiO International Code of ronduct on
the  Distribution  and Use of Pesticides,  tox x
physiological or biological prop0erty whlich det
car:acitv  of a chemical to do harm or produce
living  organism  by other than  mechanical  r
che-mi.-cals used for nest control are not only



intend_d target organisms, but also to non-target species.
Th  refore,  they  carry a nctential health hazard  to  the
apDlicators  and  consumers  of the  products  of  treated
edib'le  and  potable commodities.  They may al-so  have  an
adv-erse effect on wildlife.  Toxicity is normally measured
by  the response to a single dose of insecticide  entering
the body of a test animal.
Insecticides are not always immediately debilitating or
lethal.   Animal tests have shown that some compounds  may
cause birth defects in off-springs born to exposed adults
or cause other chronic effects such as enzyme disorders,
deterioration  of blood cells, or cancer.  Information  on
these   and  other  insecticides  may  be  obtained   from
regulatory   agencies  in developed countries,  the  World
Ilealth Organization (WHO), the International Programme  on
Chemical Safety (IPCS), National Registry of Potentially
Toxic Chemicals (NRPTC) and other sources.
The classification of insecticides and larvicides deployed
in  NMEP by hazard in respect of active ingredient  (a.i.)
and  formulation is given in Annexr-5 (a,b, c).  The  dosages
of insecticides and larvicides are given in  Anne-.-6,7 and
S.   The  relative  hazards of pesticides  should  not  be
judged alone on the basis of classification of active
ingredient but one should apply the method suggesied by
WHHO   for   classification  of   the   formulation.    The
insecticides  being  used  in  the  programme  should   be
compared by hazard of the formulations and ready to spray
suspensions/emulsions      rather    than    the       active
ingredient(ai).
Among  adulticides,  HCH  and  DDT  are  classified  under
moderately  hazardous chemicals.  BHC w.p. formulation  is
suspended   @  1.5  kg/10  lt.   water  while   DDT   w.p.
Lormnulation is suspended @ 1 kg/10 lt. water for spray  in
the  field.  Howaever the deposit o' BHC (all  isomers)  is
2.25  times as high as DDT deposit per annum.  In view  of
phasing  out  of  these two  insecticides  in  India,  the
moderately   hazardous  chemicals  will  practically  pose
negligible  hazard to the environment in the  coming  five
years.
Fenthion,   a  lar-icide,  ranks  one  among  the   highly
ha   CU -adu ccmPoundS.  This larwicide  is   diluted  with
.ater by 2000 times of- its volume and hence the  hazardous
l e-e1  Of t.e rea'y to spray emulsion attains  the  safety
en-11e1  of  65G,000 ma-g Cbody wt. in  terms  of  mammalian
toxicity.   Hotever, e.treme safety precautions should  be
CC'- rmZa  t.7';ile h;andling the fonrulation of  fenthion  and
I7irl'     zhS"culd  be  totally  prevented.   Temmephos,   a
1  :=C e-_% Te i-h LD5  va ue cf 17,200 mg/kg body wt- is  the
s.~te--   c"C-:c-c.' c -nn ty 4n use -n the  prograrmme.   The
fc .-.u- ion is furher ciluted by 4000 times of its volume
wi'h '-ctab:'_ 'ater ,---for a:vDlication in the field.
-'7



The  anmount  of temephos and fenthion  released  into  the
env-ircnm,nt  per  .hectare  per year is 2.6  and  5.2  ltrs
respectively while the quantitv of biocide formulation  is
173 kg of B. sohaericus or 130 kg of B. thurihgienSis ~r
hectare per year.  There is therefore, a need to undert  2
EA when such huge quantities of the so called eco-friendly
larvicides   along  with  additives are  dumped  into  the
environment.
W  The  slightly    hazardous        formulations      include
Lambdacyhalothrin, Fenitrothion and Lindane.  These  three
insecticides  are  not used in the  programme  on  regular
basis.   The first chemical is a synthetic pyrethroid  and
it   is  yet  to  be  granted  license  by   the   Central
Insecticides  Board for public health use.   Fenitrothion,
at  the  recommended  dose  of  6  gm/mr  per  annum,   is
. >               considered  to be more hazardous as compared to the  other
two compounds in this group.
The  adult-icide  formulations unlikely  to  present  ac  e
hazard  in  normal use include two  synthetic  pyrethroids
(Cyfluthrin  and  Deltamethrin) and  two  organophosphorus
compounds  (Pirimiphos-methyl and rmalathion).  Pirimiphos-
Methyl was used for field trial only. The total deposit of
a.i.  of Deltamethrin is 40 mg/rm2 per annum an2 the  same
for  Cyfluthrin  and  Lambdacyhalothrin is  50  mg/mr  per
annum. The O.P. compounds are deposited Q 6000 mng a.i. per
-n2  per annum which is 150 times as high  as  Deltamethrin
deposit       or     120      times      as      high
Cyfluthrin/Lambdacyhalothrin   deposit.  Thus  the   o.;-.
compounds  pose more health ris;; as compared to  synthetic
-<               pyrethroids  because of use of higher quantities  of  O.P.
compounds in IRS.
The relative toxicity of insecticides and larvicides  used
in NMEP is given in Table 3-5.
2.3.   Development of Vector Resistance and its IManagem.ent
One of the major technical constraints surfaced in the MICP
was  emergence  of  resistance among  malaria  vectors  to
different insecticide not on.ly in India but also in  other
parts of the wiorld.  Developmen. of resistance reduces the
-*               efficacy of insecticides in question.
DD-T resistance was first recorded in 1955 in I.ndia6 in Ann.
steohensi  in Tamil Nadu, in rA:. cu7icifacies in  1959  in
Gujarat which also exhibited reslct ance to -3H0C in 1958  i r
-  ;ahtlarashtra  andc  to Malathion in 19/73  in  Guj rat.   The
._sstant  stat 2S  of the principal rur,al  vcctor  to t 2
three conventionil insecticides is  ep,ic.^< in rig 3.
_t  m.a   be  seen  from  FXa F    thrat  re.   ancc  in  J>
culicif_c'i-s to DDT has been recorded in   i s ates exc*eot
a  fe:  north -eastern states and thle is>. -ds where  it  is



-     3j15    1 r*^lt4±vo  rz-     oo Di  zr-.l S- t.tsi.os w  5ith
In-Scic±idoC4' uLSd ±n -CP in Ind',n
S.!.             - c '- Inza-t'CI 1         tz.ry     Pc= Capita        Pis% ratio
raiU4-eurn=nt of   as cc=-ared to
Insecticidos      Dclt-n3thrin
(a.!1. in C33)       (IRS)
~,   1.    CyFl_thrin                    IRS              1.5               0.7   1
2.    Deltamethrin                       IRS              1.2                 1   1
"@   3.    Lambdacyhalothrin                  IRS               1.5                3   1
4.    Ma2athion                          IRS              180               9.6   1
5.    Pirimichosmethyl                   IRS              180                10 : 1
6.    Lindane                            IRS               18                23 : 1
7.    Fenitrothion                       IRS              180                40 : 1
8.    DDT                                IRS               60                59 : 1
w    9.    BHC (all isomers)                   IRS               18               76 : 1
Basis of calculation : The average sprayable area of the house is 150 m  with  five
inmates.  Therefore, per capita area is 30 m
The relative rislc given above indicates that BHC-IRS possesses 76 times higher risk
followed by DDT with 59 times higher risk as compared to Deltamethrin-IRS.
Ta-ble  4   Relative Hazard of 1Z1adicatnd Bed3ets
*.z  S.Ho.  .ame cf the insecticide        Strategy       Per Capita             Risk ratio
requirement of        as compared to
Insecticides          Deltamethrin
(a.±. in gns)        2IQI  (mass)
1.    DeltameNhrin                 ?aN (selective)       0.03125              0.08   I
2.    Deltamethrin                MIMN (mass)            0.375                   1   1
3.    Cyfluthrin                   N"NIN (selective)     0.0.625              0.09   1
2    4.    Cyfluthrin                    VMT (mass)           0.75                 1.1    1
_    5.    L amt.tacyhalothrin           r2', (selective)      0.03125             0.2    1
6.    Lamtdacyhalothrin            KXN (mass)            0.375                2.4    1
Basis  of calculacion    The average sprayable area is taken as 12.5 m4  and  three
bednets are recuired for a family of five memnbers.
The data above show that the selective use of MMMIN is the safest method.   The L-.Y-;N by
5ass use a'so is much safer as ccmpared to IRS.
.'I
i



^   S : Reativo Ha=a=d of Lar-icidza Used in Urban Maalaria Sche-e
.. o.   klas o  tha Larvicide        Strateoy       Per Caoita             Risk ratio
reo-uirem.ent of      as comuared to
Larvicides            te=ezhos
(a.i. in ano/ml)
Temephos                       Larviciding          0.412            1   1
2.    Fenthion                       Larviciding          1.648            127 : 1
3.    S.  thuringiensis              Larviciding          41.19            17A
4 .    B. sphaericus                 Larviciding          54.92            NA
5.    MLO                            Larviciding          3295             NA
asis of Calculation    Quality of larvicide required per annum x strength (50%  in
case of temephos and 100k in case of fenthion)/.o
he above data reveal that fenthion possesses 127 times higher risk as comoared to
emephos.   The relacive risk of the remaining larvicides  is not reflect.ed in  the
able in the absence of LD50 value.
Dte   The risk of insecticide/larvicide is calculated by dividing the quantity  of
the chemical required per capita per annum by LD50 value.  These values were
further  divided by the lowest value (i.e. Deltamethrin for IRS and bNY-  and
temephos for larviciding) for obtaining relative risk in respective tables.



- lJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     -
F-~ --'                                                                                                                                                  ':h
~~~~~2'G,: .             F.SS,,t 9 1  .. 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ XRS' T AlI TOI0     C31
- ,       i. G'.TA AVAILA3LE
,,I                                                           'j!t)g ;SlS ^i  11      ;I: k IJ, !  .!.
1.L A              '      :f  Pi ! -I     I   -    i
..  .        1   c .         tic



neither  a  vector  no   susceptibility  teF.-ts- have  beer,
conducted  till now.  Similarly, except in a Few  pockets,
-most of ths areas show this vector to be dc  le  resistant
'o  DDT  and 2HC.  The entire western belt         ,pri^ina n 
Maharashtra,  most  parts of Gujarat,  nortL.        p  ts  ,f
Karnataka a   Andhra  Pradesh,  western  par    %-  ,adhya
Pradesh  and  a  few  pockets  in  Rajasthan
resistance  of this vector i.e. resistant to L              I,
malathion.
Among aoLter  vectors, An. annu7aris, a  minor            - o
local  importance,  was found resistant to DDT
philippinansis  showed  DDT  resistance  in  one  
Meghal aa.    Resistance/tolerance  to  DDT/BHC
f iuviati7is .ras also recorded in a few places.  T;
vectors  like An. minimus, An. varuna, An. sunda   z and
, n.  dirus are highly susceptible to DDT.  Adults  :f  An.
t step ransi,  mostly 2n   urban vector, are found  r sistant
to DDT and BHC, though the larvae are still suscep .blP to
larvicidce  currently in use in UXG towns.
Unc'er '?, 72 Entvcmological Zones were established in  the
countr,  covering  16  endemic  &  states  and  one  Union
TerriI-o r   to  monitor entomological  data  including  the
susceptibility status. These 72 Entomological Zones should
be  reallocated  to  the high  risk  malarious  areas  for
regular entomological monitoring.
A  ques,icn would arise :whether the insecticida should    >
changed in case vector resistance appears.  The WHO Expert
Committee7  clarified that alarmist reaction about  vector
resistance  should  be  avoided  and  the  appearance   of
resist.ance  should  be  placed  in  perspective  in   each
particular eco-epidemiological situation and should not be
used as an excuse for operational or administrative  short
comings or be ignored for financial or  political reasons.
As per WHO test results, below 80% mortality is conside  -1
to be resistant but the field data showing even 60 to  bu%
mortality  arnong  vectors brought  dramatic  reduction  in
transmission potentiall0.
)   . 2.4.   Toxicity to Target and Non-target Organisms
2.4. 1  Effect on Vector
The righit choice of insecticide should be used to keep the
vect-r densities/man-mosquito contact at a very low  level
durinri  the entire period of transmission season, lest  the
IRS  at the prohibitive cost should end up into  a  futile
exercise   w ithout   alleviating   tnalaria   disease   and
overburdoning the _nvironment with residues.



2.4.2 Effecti on 1ton-t2rget Organ±s5D3
W,hen  the insecticide is directed against target  species,
it also affects the non-target organisms disturbing the
delicately balanced eco-system. Some of the domestic pets
and birds like geese, chicken, birds, etc. get killed wnhen
preyed  upon  dead insects.  Many  environmental  friendly
organisms,  both  micro  and macro, are  depleted  due  to
nonsPecifi-c nsecticidal toxicity.  The studies showq that
the    eco-system    is   disturbed   by    killing    the
predators/parasites  of  nuisance  pests.   The  community
often becomes non-cooperative for IRS because of emergence
of nuisance pests, especially bedbugs.
2.5.   Efficacy and Cost
2.5.1. Efficacy
IRS may be considered! as an appropriate method for  vector
control when the following conditions are met
a high percentage of the structures in an cperational
area have adequate sprayable surfaces, and can be
expected to be well sprayed;
-    the majority o- the vector population is  endophilic,
i.e. rests indoors;
the vector is susceptible to the insecticide in use
In these circumstances, IRS can reduce the vector life
span, vector population, man - mosquito contact and thus
control malaria transmission.
The efficacy and persistence of residual insecticides vary
with the type of surface sprayed (e.g. mud, wattle, wood,
etc.). Resistance to insecticide reduces their efficacy.
2.5.2 Conparative Cost of IRS
The different malaria control methods are given in Table
6-9.
j
DDT and Blic continue to be the cheapest insecticides
available  to  the  programme in spite of  steep  hike  in
y               prices  in  recent  years  (Table  6).  The  per   capita
expenditure  of  DDT  - IRS comes to Rs.  9.91  per  annum
v  while  the  same for BHC is Rs. 8.97.  Lindane  which-i h-as
y-              been introduced during the -urrent year as a substitute to
BHC on trial basis costs t D exchequer double thac cf  the
BHC (per capita expenditure of Lindane-IRS comes to Rs.
17.98 as against Rs. 8.97 per BHC-IRS).



Table 6   Com-oarative   Per   Capita  Cost   of   Different
Components  of Mfalaria Control Idethods   at  1996
Pr ices
S. No.        DTe of Insecticides/           Control       Per CaDita
Lar-viides                     methods      cost per
annum (Rs.)
A9u1 iciden
1.         DDT                            IRS            9.91
2.          21HC                          IRS             8.97
3.          Lindane                       IRS           17.98
.           M'alathion                    IRS           36.12
5.          Deltamethrin                  IRS           44.64
6.          CyFluthrin                    IRS           44.48
7.          La    cy.bdacyhalothrin       IRS           42.85
-Isdi±cated IosoGuito BednetQ
1.          Deltamethrin                                26.20
2.          C-vfuthrin                                  32.55
3.          Lambdacyhalothrin                           23.70
1.         IMLO                           Larviciding  20.38
2.          Temenhos                      Larviciding   7.62
3.          Fenthion                      Larviciding   8.24
4.          B. thuringiensis              Larviciding  23.68
5.          B. sphae-ricus                Larviciding  29.17
nioenviro=mental
1.          Khréda district, Gujarat State              7.10
(at 1986 prices)
EDPT
1.         ABER 10 %&SPR 2.5$                           3.18
2.         A3BR 201 & SPR 5%                            4.96
3 .         ABER 30% & SP? 10∞s                         8.24
4.         ADER 40%- & SPR 20%                         15.12
TThe  cost  oL  treatment of mal1-.ia is much  hiigher  than  the
e:.-endit:ur3 s-.ho;n above since individual cases suffering  fromn
fever and t--.laria snenc a large amount for treatment purposes.



T:blo 7 s Cotrarativa coot of indoor noxidual Sprayiroj in India to Cover One
l:illion PotMlation per KnMn  Based on Pricos During 1995-96
s.:o.   1.:Oo  of Inaocticida  Poluiro-  Coot per  Coat per   Oporational Coot               Cott of    Total Cost   Per Capita  Coat Ratio
Rn.            Storage
Dooago                  oact per    Kr          AnnU=       ,. .,,-.                              of IRS         cost per    as campared
AnnunIM                                       Protective  Trasport                       annum        to IRS with
UT         Ro.                   "ages      garments         Re.          Rs.            Rs.        DDT
1.    DDT Sc%  wp              IS0        55,843    D,376,450  1,233,000                      300,000   9,909.450         9.91           1 :
I g/n  2 roinda
2.    Blic S0o' wp.            336         19,192    6,449,512  I.849,4 00        -           672,000   8,970,012         8.97         0.9   1
0.2 g/!n 3 roundo
3.    Kalathion 2 g/m          900        35,983      32,134,700 1,49.500   82.200    1.,100.000  16.116,400            16.12         3.6   1
3 rounds
W
t.n             4.    Deltamethrin 2.5% vp.  60          120,000    43,200,000 1.113,000   B2,000             120,000  44.615,200         44.64        4.5    1
2
0.02 g/M , 2 rounds
S.    Cyfluthrin 10'.        1.75   2,300.000    43.125,000 1,213.000   62,000                37,500  44,477,700        44.48         4.5: 1
2
0.025 g/mt , 2
Roundo
6.    Lanv.bolacyhalothrin   18.75   2,213,000    41,493,750 1,233,000   82,200                37,500  42,846.450        42 8s         4.3   I
10'  _p 0.025 gtm
2 Rounds
7.    Lindane 0.2 9/m          336        46,000       1,849,500 15,456,000                   672.000  17.977,500        17 98         1.8 : 1
3 Rounds
lioto  1. Theo wages ar  calculated 3 of An. 30/per day per worker for 274 npray area (tield workera and ouperier Pield workarsl for
two rounds or throe rounds of epray an applicable.
2. Protectivn garmento aro calculated I Rn. 300 per workers
3. Storaga anl transport charges are Calculatod S Rn  2 per kg



Table 8 i  Compazrative Cost of LLrviciding in India to Cov&r Cna itillion Population
Per Annune nanod on Prices During 1995-S6
S.lo.   nc:=  of         Coat of    Requircnant of  Rlcquircierit of   Coat of Larvicide   Operational   Total coat of   Per capita    Cost Ratio
Larvicide       Larvicida  Latvicida por   Lnrvicido per    por ono tlailion               coat of         Larvicide .        cost por       na couipar*d
in Rs.     RUctaro par         one million         population par          Larvicide +   Operational          Annau  Rs.    Tamapho.
Xnnuzi            population par   )nznurA Ito.               Oparationgl   coat                                Larviciding
1J1nu1             coot
I     mosquito         4000/KL    10.4 KL             3295 l;L            13,180,000              7.200.000       20,380.000         20.38           2.7   1
Larvicidel
Oil
2.    Tamdphos         S07/L        2.6 L             824 L               417,768                 7,200,000         7.617,768          7 62            1   1
3     Fenchion         632/L        5.2 L             1648 L              1.041.536               7.200.000        6.241,S36          8.24           1 1   1
4      !Jacillus       400/kg       130 kg            41190 kg            16.476,000              1,200,000       21.676,000         23 .6           3.1   I
th curingi ensis
5.    8. aphoericus 400/kg          173.33 kg         54. 920 kg          21,968.000              7,20D.000       29.168,000         29.17          3.8   1
1:oto  a    i. It ia eetiauted that an average of 316.05 hoctare water eurface per one million populstion in created/ Ormed
Ii. Tho operacional cost in worked nor on the bauis of one worker per 2500 population and monthly wages to a worker (parmanent ocatf)
in corputed an nn 1500 including uniformns, torage, rraneport, etc.
iii. The oporationsl coat of biocides could be leac aince B, thuringennin in splayed once in t.o weeks while D. 57 'aericus is splayed
onca  in three seeaks.   Since thio  splay  ren  in urban  Malaria  Scheme  are  parmanent staff  who  could  not  be  retrendred, the
operational cost in kept uniform for all tha larviciden.



Tabla 7  i  Cn-;parativ:  Coct of j$adicat6d .1aoIuito Bcdnot ci3M) to Cover One hillion Popjlation Par krnnu:
2 .1.o   ::   o: thf  pDoe* ot   Doe of   loquiremeort of  Paquircm.rnt of   Qutntity ot 8P Coct of bodn.t    Cost of  P Zyaration.1   lotal coat
rynthrtic      gP a.i.   sP for-m-  sP tornulation  bo'!n*ta por         rDquir.,I to      (Ra. in            par xnui         cost 0 Rs2 2  or W j por
ptrathorida   par S       ulattion  to troat ono.   on* Lillion          treat 0.6 dl   tillilot)              (its. in  iill)  per beodnat    LnnuZI
par u      ii bodnat of     population         bodnata taice                                                         (Rs. in till)
12.5 n                              a yoar
(mg)                                    (a131.ion)
I.  Deltamoethrin    26         1.0        12.5              0.6                15l.             1i.2                10.8             1.2            26 .20
26 5 
2,   jf Iuthrin      O0        OS.        6.25              0.6                7.5              14.2                17.2S            1.2            32.65
10%
3.  Lambda-          25         0.25       3.125             0.6                1.76             14.2                 8.30            1.2            23.10
cyhalothrin 10%
note i  1. The done of insecticide is indicated an per the asoeanment of field trials carried out in India
2  The average sprayable area of the bednet in calculsted on the basis of 12.5 m  per bednet.
(Length   3 ma iLreadth   I s and Hight (1.75 m)
3. The requirement of bednets in calculated on the basis of 3 bedneca for a femily of five om-rrbera   In caae double bedners are uaed, the number
per million will be proportionately reduced compensating the bigger eurface area.
4  Tha coat of badnete per annum in calculated on tho basis of Rs. 120 per nylon bodnet and each bednet lasrirg for five years.
... . . ..



?
Thie cost of Malathicn-IRS is 3.6 times as high as that  of
DDT.  The cost of synthetic pyrethroids-IRS is about  four
and  a  half  times as that of DDT-IR.S.   The  per  caoi-
e-_p eXrnditure 2C  malathion is Rs. 36.12 per annum as agaii
i  Rs. 42.35 to "Rs. 44.64 for synthetic  y--.-t-roids.  The IRS
with  synthetic pyrethroids would reauire about 20 g  more
:                  L funds as comnared to malathion spraying.
2.5.3 Ccr.arative Ccst of Larviciding
The  comoarative cost of larviciding used in UmS is  given
in Table 7.  Temephos larviciding is the  cheapest  method
among  the current larvicides wqith per capita  expenditure
.)               of Rs. 7.62 per annum followed by fenthion with Rs.  8.24.
per annum Larviciding with M4LO will be 2.7 times and with
biological control agents (BCA) 3.1 to 3.8 times as hic7h
as that of teme-hos.
The field trials with BCA biocides are in proaress in  the
countrny  and the efficacy of these products is yet  to  be
evaluated.   The different strains of such control  agents
differ  widely in their efficacy and one  should  exercise
-~ 'caution   in  choosing  the  right  type  of  strain   for
-*               larviciding.   The very high cost of BCA  restricts  their
use on a large scale since many local bodies cannot afford
to  sustain  the escalated cost  of  larviciding.  Effor
should be made to produce more cost-effective BCA than t,__
current ones to substitute the chemical larviciding in
future.   From  the safety angle  and  cost-effectiveness,
_,               temephos stands out as the cheapest larvicide as on date.
Though per capita expenditure of larviciding with temephos
or  fenthion  in urban areas is cheaper than that  of  IRS
with  DDT  or  EHC  in rural  areas,  the  expenditure  on
larviciding  in rural areas will be more than  five  tim.
(per  capita  expenditure) because most  of  the  breeding
places  in  rural  areas  are very  vast  as  compared  to
population density.
Efficacy,  cost  and  a-fety must be  taken  together  into
account  in selecting an insecticid_ for :alria  control.
-}ow-''C---,  it  =y  not bo possible t-o COtim-sc  all  tLrcc
ccca-nts   s iz'lan cou3 1y  and  a  coPrcmise   may   bo
1 a voi  ibl. -o-oa   =  use of lowq cost in_secticides  with
lo;r  ef`icica rc--s loading the  environtnt  with  tL5z
c- 1   1C: iti;_hout a-- ou-ose andk, t  ror`i, effic-cy  of
insa ti>_de    -~nz -as a       ozrtant- detz=inr_t  fo-
er'S v~-"                2Z- - '-ß-'  -   (C) t   Th2  acuta  and  c-oz:c
to::ict - cCth~  -~secticds,   t    oeros t ence  i-n  tL-~
-_a  C_--ftze ac'xl.nO-f rcsd. i  t           ,.eL=
C_- ;D_ t_ _  _C al   i   C i _ii_32_3 ino Sc  t   _y~n; ou_iI1 t 



2.5.4 ComDarative Cost of 11ass and Selective use of 1;2ANs
Amnong adult-vector control measures, the selective use  o.
NWMMNs to protect fever cases, infants and pregnant womer
will  be the cheapest method since this selective  use  of
£Irvi will be one-twelfth the cost of mass use of MMN.   (i.e
J   600 bednets are required for mass use for lO00  population
chile for the selective use, the average number of bednets
will be 50 only).
2.5.5   Cost Benef it Aspects of Indian Malaria Prog-ramme
The cost-benefit analysis was estimated by the Directorate
of  N iEP  in 1994 on the premise that the  individuals  or
families   could  have  been  incurring  expenditure   for
treatment to severe morbidity due to projected malaria
cases   in   India,  if  control   operations   were   not
implemented.  This estimated expenditure was compared with
the expendi.ure of the current control measures.  Thus the
overall  expenditure on malaria control comes to Rs.  3.85
per capita during 1994 in the country.
B3sides the above estimated expenditure, the individuals
also  incur expenditure for treatment of malaria which  is
estimated as Rs. 3.33.
Thus the expenditure on morbidity due to malaria by the
Govt.,  private organisations and individual comes to  Rs.
7.13 per capita per annum.
The analysis shows that every rupee invested in malaria
programme provided a direct return of Rs. 22.10 benefit.
The estimates also show a saving of 1323.75 million
mandays  of labour per year.  Tf the gain to the  national
gross product due to saving of laboui- days is also  added,
the benefit will be much higher thar   e projected figures
above.
2.6    Monitoring of Insecticidal us  . .aploying GIS
The success of vector control strategy using  insecticides
depends on the ability to assess complex relationship
between a variety of economic, environmental and social
factors  across space and time.  Geographical  Information
system  (GIS)  have emerged as  a  particularly  promising
approach in this regard, enabling users to collect,  store
-l e.-,a?;se     frmt>-n that can be-referred in accordance
:i>;1 i-  C_^ reiphic&i location.
'*:os  situaions that swould benefit from C-IS capability can
;:; c-te ^:rised as loncg term  or short term.  Tl lor.c  ter m
categorv   i5s  where  management  malaria,  economic   and
environm,ental  issues  on a national,  regional  or  local



level   is   called   for   involving   institutional   o-
programmatic   applications.   The  short  term   category
usually involves specific project situations. Both short
and long terms applications help  in determining  region's
vulnerability   to   insecticide   resistance,    seasonal
fluctuations   in  disease  occurrence   and   -nsecticide
pollution in water and soil.
One  clear advantage of GIS in monitoring  is  flexibility
which  allows  specialists  to  create  a  wide  range  of
reports,  maps  and  statistical  summaries  suitable  for
public  briefing as well as technical analysis.   GIS  may
thus  help in increasing transparency and  broadening  the
scope of public participation in project iipem.cntatiocr.



P.A T  I I
3.0   O~fl.&l  -i-.' : ! cts  Arising  out  of  the <iodeS Of
.;--T: Cc n o'  :[OcItSiCi    for Vector Control Progral-m
-          3 .2'.P_pZ2' 1 Prevailing .odes or: Application
*         The  modes  of  application  of  insecticides  should   be
selective for resistance management and include
'ocal application
se"csonal application
partial application to selected resting sites
partial  application  to bed-nets,  curtains  and
t raps
,n focal application, insecticide are applied only to
selected areas or localities and no attempt is made to
ac:--eve  complete  coverage of large  geographical  areas.
The rationale underlying focal insecticide application for
_sistance  management is that, after application  of  the
insecticide to the focus, susceptible individuals will
migrate from neighbouring areas into the treated area,
Lhus  dilutirg any resistance that has been developed  and
thereby  conserving  a  pool  of  succeptible  genes   and
diminishing  the selection pressure producing  resistance.
T;.e success of focal application will depend on the vector
species fcund in the area and their amenability to control
by means of insecticides and/or cther measures.  The  size
of  the  foci  selected  will  depend  on  flight  ranges,
distributicn,  breeding sites, natural barriers and  other
narameters which influence the movement of vector species.
Seasonal  application involves limitation  of  insecticide
use to the seasons in which peak disease transmission or
pest nuisance occurs.
Many  species  of  vectors rest in  certain  areas  within
houses.   Applicatic- c-ily to those areas rather  than  to
all of the areas of the house, results in savings -in
irsecticides  and, perhaps, in the reduction in  selection
p ressure.
Impregnation of  bednets and curtains can be considered as
special  types of p artial application of insecticides.   By
placing the impregnated bed-nets and curtains between  the
vector and its host, contact between adult females and the
insecti_ide  is facilitated.  At the same time,  both  the
a.mcunt o: insecticide used and the selection pressure  are
In insecticide applicaticn, rotation of insecticides,  use
of mi xture of i4nsecticides and use of synergists can  play
itrmor.-.nt roles in resistance management.



31 l Irzzact of use co Ogcc_.lcr_ze I=n^ccicic..
,valaria  transmission  occurs  due  -o  the   presc:nce
Anopheles  mosquito and parasite in a  given  env:          c.
DDT was the principal insecticide used in malaria          -ol.
Adequate  quantity of DDT was supplied for vector           rol
to  NMEP  until 1062-62.  Indiaenous  DDT  oroduct         .:as
about  30 percent of the total reauirernent and its          l 
was  partial during the eradication phase and  even
the  modified  plan of operation  (MPO),   implemente   i
1977.
In  India,  there  are 57  Aiiophleles  species  distributed
unevenly  all  over thre countr.  Nlot  all  Anoo.h.eles  are
vectors,  and  only six  Anopheles  are  epidemiologiCally
important (Please refer section 1.1).
DDT  sprayPirg  produced  dramatic  impact  on  these   sj-.
vectors.      DDT   and  HCH   are,   however,   persistent
insecticides  and  have a tendency to  accumulate  in  the
environmental  niches.  Concentrations of HCH and  DDT  in
soil,  water and whole llood were determined in two  areas
under malaria control.    These were areas involving
. -EBioenvironmental   control (biological control,  source
reduction and environmental management) of malaria at
Bharat  Heavy  Electricals  Limited  (EHEL),  Ranipur,
Hardwar
Residual  spraying of insecticides in rural and  urban
areas of Bahadrabad PHC of Hardwar district.
Mean  concentrations  of HCH and DDT in  soil,  water  and
whole  blood  samples  from  £HEL  and  Bahadrabad were as
under
B= L    -Bahzdrabad
ECH        DDT       rCz        DDT
Soil(ug/kg)   2.26         3.68       61.12      270.31
IN aater(uo'l)  IND        NTD        0.1Z       0.07
W7hole blood   1.20        4.71       24 .30     33.23
(ug/l)
NOTE : N1D indicates non detectable
Thus r-esidual levels of MCH and DDT were 27 an- 73.5 tim7    s
higqhr  in  soil and 20.2 and 8.1 times  higher  in  whol2
blood sa-..l'es res-ectively from -Enhad rabad, as comParec& t.o
EHIEL da.ia.
Eattu  ec aal (9182 )_  repored that level o_  D7T  resid;o_es
inb^-9-imilkn2 - frcm the DrD- ,.r.rvcd areas  ze r c   1-2  Liea:2_
"h.chc~:-  &'!n  thne co--rspc   ang  le-els  from  hC{-sprc



areas and 'HC'i level in bovine millk from iHCH1-sprayed area
.-lere 2-11 times hiSher than the DDT sprayed area.
IDT  resistaance  wias first detected in  1959  in  Gujarat.
Till  196G,  DDT  resistance did not  interfere  with  the
successful  control of malaria. However, in  later  years,
resistance   posed  problems  in  parts  of  Gujarat   and
Maharashtra.      The   development   of   resistance    to
insecticides may riot; be due to their use in  public health
and could be attributed to their use in agriculture  where
the quantum applied is more.
As  a  result of recent publicity concerning  the  alleged
carcinogenecity  of  DDT,  there has been  an  unsurge  of
queries  on  W;,O's policy oin the use of  DDT  for  malaria
control.  Siince many endemi.c countries rely on DDT for tlhe
control of malaria, the WHO study group on Vecto-  Control
Lor  Malaria and other mosquito-borne diseases was  asked,
as  a  specific  additional task, to  review  the  current
situation regarding the use of DDT in vector control.
Af'.ter careful review of the documents and intensive
discussion,  the  Study Group concluded that there  is  no
convincing evidence of adverse effects of DDT exDosure  as
a result of indoor residual spraying as carried out in
malaria control activities. The conclusions arrived at by
the Study Group are presented in Annex-9.
However,  because  of  its  lipophilic  nature,  DDT  gets
biomagnified  in  food  chain and its  presence  has  been
detected  in breast milk or breast-fed infants.  Also  DDT
hlas  been associated with human cancer.  Therefore,  there
is an urgent need for che ministry of Health & Family
Welfare to undertake investigation to determine long  term
implications of these  i-ndings.
3.1.2  Imnact of use Co  Or;anopLospIlorus Insecticides
The organophosphorus insecticides commonly used in malaria
control are malathion, fenitrothion and  pirimiphos-methyl
as  adulticides and temmephos and Fenthion  as  larvicides.
Malathion and pi-rimihos-methyl are classified as slightly
hlzardous wlhereas fenitrothion is classified as moderately
haz-ardous.   Tem~.,phoz is un4likely to present acute  hazard
n  no=mal use as has bean described in earlier  sections.
Crganophoshcr-us  insecticIdes  are  not  very  stable  in
azu=atic media.  ,ccidental release of pesticides in lakes,
ri,-ers and other water bcdies many e;ert toxcic effects  cn
f-sh  and small aiua.- orcanisms such as  Daphnia  be-Lore
d^--r-d--io  is comlee.



.1.3  Taz-t of Us  of Car-cmbe Tnscti-cd-
The carbamates wn:^ch are cc.--monly used for vector  contrr
in  malaria control include bendiocarb and propoxur  _,hic-
are   moderately   hazardous  as   per   Wq O   reccmmended
classification of pesticides by hazar-d.   These pesticides
resemb2le the organophosphates in their biological  action.
Like  organophosphorus  insecticides,  carbamates  do  not
accumulate in the adipose tissues of the body. In general,
the  vapour  pressure of carbamates is low and  its  to.xic
effect  is  limited  by their  rapid  decomposition  under
acueous  conditions.  Photodegradaticn oL propoxur  is  pH
dependent. Carbam-ate insecticides, in general, are highly
toxic to honey bees.
3.1.4   z-cA o; Use of Synthetlc TPyrthroid Insecticides
Deltamethrin,     cyfluthrin,    lambda-cyhalothrin        ana
permeth=in  are the four synthetic pyrethroids  which  are
commonly  used in malaria control.  Synthetic  pyrethroids
have the advantage of high biological activity against
insects  and, in general, have a lower mammtalian  toxicity
than    other   insecticide   groups.    However,        these
insecticides  are  highly toxic to fish  and  honey  bees.
These insecticides are suitable for personal protection
wherein synthetic pyrethroids impregnated bednets and
curtains  are used.  So far, only pyrethroid  insecticide
have been extensively tested for treatment of bednets  and
curtains as they are considered safe for human.
Pyrethroid resistance has been detected in some insect
species including anophelines. The use of pyrethroid
insecticides  for  IRS  is not advisable  in  areas  where
pyrethroid -treated bednets are currently in use, or their
use is being contemplated, since it will enh>ance and speec
up resistance to pyrethroids. Some concern has been
expressed that as pyrethroids are used more frequently  in
agriculture, mosquito breeding or resting in agricultural
areas will become pyrethroid resistanit. Resistance of
vectors and crop pests to synthetic pyrethroids in India
have   already  been  documented  for  Spodoptera   litura
(Tobacco Caterpillar), Plutella ,xylostella (Diamond  black
moth),   h.elicoverpa   armigera   (American    bollworm),
Pectinophora   Cosypiella    (Pink-  bollworm),   I'ylabris
pustul2ta  (Blister  beetle)  and  Syz,.us  cersicae  (.-eac1l
aphid).  Recent studies show that mosquitoes can  devel cu
resistance  to 1c2.paratively faster rate,  i:  -'.ot
used  properly.               This   may   adve-rselv   c.t
recnet Drogrammes in such areas.



3.1.5  Impact   CL  Use  of   Insecticides/Pesticides   in
Agricultural Sector
India's economy is predominantly agricultural economy wvith
about 75% of the population depending upon agriculture and
in  rural areas.  Indian population is expected  to  cross
1000 million by 2000 AD with the corresponding requirement
of food grains exceeding 220 million tonnes. As against
this, the availability of land per capita is expected to
be  only  0.14  hectares.   The  per  capita   consumption
(gms/hectare) of pesticides in India is 475 as compared to
750 in Mexico, 960 in Argentina 3000 in USA and Germany
and   1800  in  Japan.   Quantitatively,  the  demand   of
pesticides in India is expected to grow to about  1,08,000
tonnes  by  1994-95 and 1,18,000 tonnes by the  year  2000
A.D.,  of  twhich  agriculture  w:ill  account  for   97,000
tonnes. 11 13
4.0    Sectoral Environmental Assessment
4.1  Sectors linked to malaria control
The  release of insecticides in the environment is  caused
ky  a  number of diverse sectors such as  chemical  sector
which is responsible for insecticide manufacturing, health
sector which uses insecticides for vector control and
agricultural sector which employs insecticides for pest
manacement.   Project  specific  environmental  assessment
(EA)   in each sector enables analysis of impacts  related
to  the  project  & the sector in question  but  does  not
encomoass  the  cross  sectoral  issues  which  contribute
substantially   to  developmental   planning.    Sectorial
environmental  assessment  (SEA),  therefore,  is  a  much
needed  complement to project specific EAs in  develooment
planning  and avoids the inherent limitations  of  project
specific  EAs in addressing issues related to  policy  and
planning  and  legal  and  institutional  framework.   SEA
indeed provides a basis for collaboration and coordination
across sectors, and helps to avoid duplication of  efforts
and  policy  contradictions between  sector  agencies  and
ministries.
In  a malaria control r-ogra-mme, the role playing  sectors
_n --2 'lealth, national resource management,  agriculture
ai-d  enKironrien,t.  In the absence of SZ-E, any progress  in
one  se-ctor  may have a necative environmental  impact  in
anothrer  sector.   *or  example,  the  Indian  Council  of
i:-2lice1  Research  has  obDservcd that  the  real  economic
r.turns  from ;.'ater resource  development projects may  be
seriouslv  cs or-om.s d  due to  enhanced  transmission  of
vector horne disease;. N   The statec  of Punjab and Harvana
*have no. becom  enleic for Malaria on account of  several
::aer re=,ource dev elop!ment projetI;.    Si'milar  situation
c:ists  in the .aichlur distl rict ot IKar-nazak:a  State  aftcr



- a
Tungabhadra  dammning  and canal  net  work  develonment.
Alternatively   an  intensive  vector  control   Drogram ,
involving insecticides may lead to water po.lluticn.  There
is,  therefore,  an: imperative  need  for  a  sector-wide
envircnmental analysis of developmental activities and fo
identifying broad institutional resource and tecLuncloaica±
needs to amend decisions that might be environmentally
harmful.
The SEA in the present investigation broadly aims at
Identification of sources of insecticide release in
the environment
Management  of off-specification, discarded and  date
expi-red products
Identification  of environmental irmacts arising  out
of  the  modes  of application  of  insecticides  for
)                     vector control programme
*    identification  of  policy issues  and  carrying  out
analyses  of  legal,  regulatory  and   institutional
aspects  of  environmental  management  in  a  vecto-
control programme
*    delineation of an environmental management plan.
4.2    identification of- Sources of Insecticides Relc=sed in  t.
Enviro=ent
=               4.2.1  Mdanufacture
In India, the production, formulation and distribution  of
pesticides   is  handled  by  the  government   controlled
companies,    cooperatives,    private    companies    a-A
formulators.    Government  policy  is  based   on   sel.
sufficiency  and local production is  encouraged.   within
the chemical sector, pesticides account for  approximately
3 percent of the total chemical production.  Of the  total
production  of pesticides  in this country,  insecticides,
rungicides,  rodenticides, and fumigants   and  herbicides
(including plant growth regulators, etc.) account for S33s,
-,7;, 2∞-, and 8; respectively.
-J               Presently,  India  manufcactures  pesticides  which   meets
around 959 of the country's requirement. In the large  and
medium   sector,  the  country  has  57  basic   pesticide
manufactu`ina  industries and 21  formulatinq  industries.
(-n^ni~--O) .nMajority of these industries are located  in
the  t-.o states of rMlaharashtra and Gujarat ('ig.  -2.  The
--formulations,  based on physical formLs, may be  classified
43



> H ~~~~~~JAMH.U t KA'1S5INIR5
pA R{IAYAN L
N_?           k    ILHI           ,                              t      ?~~TTA  '7  ASSAI*H AGALAN'D
)     f           ~~~~~~~~RAJASTHAll    ro      PRADESHt        (-G ?tZtL                                2
<              r    g  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~RocuSoot                                       k '5   ).A' UR
)~~~~~~~ Udaipuf t : Jr.,zBEA   RP2sgH2
tffl  GUJA6R'\T  ))        I-4~~~~ANTlA   PRADESHf                         L . ,ci            A
p    F{AXI,4RAS'tITE _RA9  
Punv           r4    H,dck       -/J      /
\~~~- r.- J      AINN5RA  cu*
t∞ttpat.5u  | r, s   -    PrKCvSur
A   (     )                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Stcto 50urtdcry
> [al~~~~~~~~nernational BouJndcry
\KAPi'lATlF;A    4 _    jF{adf ts       ' ~~Location of Industri-ts
ARATK                  H  CdClrot
'     in,                              ?C
ST,4~~~~~~~~~ S-_  ik DeSir



.9
dry formulations
-   dusting powders
-   cranules
-   encapsulated granules
-   water soluble powders
b                        -   water dispersible powders
liquid formulations
-   emulsifiable concentrates
-   solutions
-   water soluble concentrates
-   ultra low volume solutions
The  raw materials used and products manufactured in  each
of  the 57 large/medium scale pesticides are furnished  in
the   document  "Pesticide   Industry       Status"t  of  -
Central Pollution Ccntrol Board.
4.2.2  Z-iszions and Wastes
Countries   which  have  insecticide   manufacturing   and
formulation   plants  are  aware  of  the  irmportance   of
controlling  discharges  of  toxic  effluents  from  these
industries.   Consequently, legislation to  control  these
environmental contaminants has been initiated by man,
governmencs.   The 1Xocument on wastewater  management  in
pesticide  industryy   prepared by the  Central  Pollution
Control Board furnishes useful information on the effluent
manacement   in   pesticide  industries.   The   Pesticide
Manufacturing & Formulation Industry Standards  for liouid
effluent  are shown in Annex-11.  The<e i45  no   yztz--eat-c
documentation  or inventory available on  the  gn-eration,
traat7nnt a disposal of industrial solid wastes  includi77-
haz-rdous wastes generated from insecticide  manufacturing
industries.  Such inveetotIy and docuvnt must be  perpared
by c_ch industry.
4 .2.3  9nac--ag:ing, Sto rage and flandling Requirements
7- ikagi-.g     The  4 nsecticide  re-uirements   for  trhe
population for one round of spray are
DDT 50% wD                  75 MT   per million population
,;alathion 25's wo          300 MT  per million pooulation
Deltamethrin 2.5 a wp       30 MT   per million populaticn
Cyfluthrin _CO- ;Vp         9.38 MT per million population
Lambdacyhalot>rin 100 wp   9.38 MT per million population
The insecticide is to be F  '-ed in sachets or drums as per
BIS specification.  The a'    o be covered by 10 litre  cf



suspension  to  get  correct dosage for IRS  is  shown  in
C"---6.   For  mass  bed  net treatment,  1  lg  of  2.59
deltamethrin  contains  encugh  insecticide  for  65   -et
reatrments  (at 25 mrn/m' and assuming an area of  15  mi2)
The  larvicidal formulation and their doses are  shown  in
Annex-S.
For  licuid  formulations the smaller bottles tend  to  be
slightly  more  expensive,  but  with  the  drums,   small
c-uantities  must be frequently decanted for  use,  usually
with  some  spillage  each  time.   Self-priming  siphons,
similar to those used for petrol, can help to avoid this.
Spillage can also occur in the measuring process, and the
outside  of  the bottle often  becomes  contaminated.   To
avoid this, several manufacturers are developing "squeeze-
and-pour"  bottles.   These  consist of  two  chambers,  a
larger one below containing the insecticide, and a smaller
graduated chamber above.   Squeezing the bottle forces the
liquid into the upper chamber; when this chamber contains
the desired quantity, it can be poured out without
spillage.   Squeeze-and-pour  bottles will  be  useful  in
public  health  net  treatment programmes, 1gnd  in  local
companies that offer net-treatment services .
-Iowever, such bottles are far too big to be suitable for
the domestic market, which is likely to require individual
net treatment. One possibility is that local retailers
would decant a liquid insecticide concentrate from a large
bottle into smaller re-usable containers at the point of
sale.   However,  the  safety  of  this  is  questionable.
Accidental spillage and contamination are likely, and   in
some countries, re-usable containers may be prohibited.
There is also the possibility of deliberate adulteration.
Adulteration of an emulsifiable concentrate with water
would be visible, but dilution with organic solvents such
as  kerosene may be hard for the purchaser to detect.   If
such- small quantities are to be sold, they will need to
be packaged appropriately, for example, in sealed sachets
or in small bottles with tamper-proof lids.
Stor.ge o. Insecticides    The requirements of storage  is
as under
The insecticides should be stored away from food,
foodstuffs,  children and animals.   The  insecticides
should  be  kent  pr eerably in  e_nc   - ed  and  locked
lCcation
insctcicides are to be stcred in a dry place cn raised
nlatfoc  and store room with Hrovisions of ventilation
* T £   insecticid  should not be e:-posed to sunlight  ancu
4CIgh  tmrera-ture either  in the storage or at  dumpinc



It  is recmired to be ensured that the containers  are
properly labelled
A ma-.rk of caution like "Poison", "Danger, JKeep  A,way",
should  be  placed  at the  store  room  with  symbols
whichever is applicable
Empty containers should be destroyed so that they  are
not used for storing food materials or for other
household purposes.
The storage records should be kept for regular  inspection
by designated authority
Handlina : The precautions to be observed for handling of
insecticides are :
While   making  suspension,  rubber  gloves   are
reauired to be used so that skin of hands does
not come in direct contact with the insecticide
The   cholinesterase  level  of  all  spray   men
employed in spraying of malathion or the other
organophosphorus compounds should be monitored
regularly at the recommended intervals and those
showing a drop in cholinesterase level to 62.5
percent and below should be withdrawn and given
rest and, if needed, medical aid.  For estimation
of   cholinesterasy  level,  standard   techniaue
recom"mended by WHO   should be used.
Contamination of cooked foods or food materials
should be avoided during insecticide application.
Smoking, drinking or eating should not be done
while  handling the insecticides.   If  necessary
such things should be done only after thoroughly
washing hands and face
While  spraying  organophosphorus  compounds  and
synthetic pyrethroids, protective clothing should
*   be  used. The exposed skin, hands, face and  eyes
should  not  come  in  direct  contact  with  the
insecticide
In case of accidental contamination, contaminated
part should be washed liberally with soap and
water.
N4MEP  should also develop handouts in lo_al languages  for
the  benefit  of  peripheral  supervisors  fcr   effective
implementation  oF I?S.  The guidelines shall contain  thre
following



-                .  Tile  technical  details on handling  of  insecticides,
safety   measures   -ncluding    disposal   of   empty
cont-ainers, et-c.
Metlod of mcasuring thle discharge rate of nozzle  tip,
frequency  of  chlainging  nozzle tip,  number  of  pump
strokes  per  minute, plunger movement in  respect  of
stirrup  pump  or pressure to be  maintained  in  hand
compression sprayer.
The  teclhniaue of lance movement and uniforn  coverage
of  the entire sprayable surface where the  mosquitoes
are likely to rest.
v  .  Random   measurement   of   sprayable   surface    and
consumption  of  suspension to check  whether  correct
dose is given.
-.  Ccnsumption  of insecticide as'per the houses  sprayed
and also as per the number of spray pumps deployed.
- .Mtrethods   to   detect   and   prev-ent   pilferage   of
insecticide, if any.
Precautions for safe handling of insecticides
Literature  on IEC to maximise  community  cooperation
for IRS.
Washing  and disposal of Containers    The containers  are
reauired to be washed thoroughly before they are made
unfit for recycling, preferably by crushing, and then sent
to  secure  landfill.   Appropriate  provisions  for  such
disposal should be made in the prevailing Insecticide  Act
of 1968 so that the Insecticides Inspectors receive,  from
time  to  time, infoz-mnation about safe disposal  of  empty
pesticide   containers.   Such  Inspectors   should   have
sufficient   powers   to  prosecute  anyone   using   such
containers  for recycling purposes.   Alternatively,  such
containers  may  be  returned  to  the  manufacturer   for
repackcing under intimation to the Insecticide  Inspectors.
All  washings and unused solutions should be  collected  &
disposed   off   on  land  after  treatment.    Under   no
circumstance,  these  should be dumped into  nearby  water
courses cr wells.
4.3   eM aag Cnt   of  of_-Ssecification,  Discarded  and   Date
a -d' 'qata
- .3 .1  fl ~-__ td Diopo3a1
Accordlng   to  the  Hazardous  Wastes   (Managemeent   anc'
Kandling)  Rules,  1939, off-specification  and  discarded
'.;rouucIs   are  classified  as  hazardous  wastes   (s-aste



cate-ory  No.  17).   Also the sludges from  -reatment  of
wastewater  containing heavy metals, toxic  organics,  oil
em.ulsionls  arin  Spe.lt chemllicals alld incinleration  aslh  ale
classiZied  as  hazardous wastes (waste category  No  1-2'
These ts0WO  categories of wastes are  generated  from 
insecticide manufacturing industries.  The two  strategies
for  hazardous  waste  management  are  incineration   and
containment  in  secure  landfill.  The  wastes  and  o.f-
specification and discarded products having low  calorific
N                values,  inciznerator ash & heavy metal bearing ,wastes  and
wastes  containing  chloroorganics  are  recorrFended
secure  landfilling.   The  rest  of  the  waste  can   be
)                incinerated  in an incinerator with or  without  auxiliany
fuels which is retrofitted with afte- gas cleaning system
provided  the destruction and removal ef,iciencies  (DREs)
of  the Principal Hazardous Organic  Constituents  (PHOCs)
exceed 99.99 percent.
4.3.2  P-rotection    of   Shelf-life   and   Quality
Irsecticides
nRceTipt at the Conz±ggnee and Maintenance : The consignee
is  recuired to ensure the storage of the insecticides  in
appropriate  conaitions and containers and to utilize  the
insecticides within the specified shelf life period.
The Central Insecticides Board1l rec--r-s that the samples
be  stored under three different agrcl. itic  condition=
The  objective of this is to expose samples to  real  liit
conditions  of  temperature  (cold,  warm  and  hot)   and
humidities (dry to highly humid)
The Bureau of Indian Standards (BTS) has issued  standards
on containers which are
.   IS  9445 (1985) for aluminium containers
IS 12512 (1989) for HDPE containers
)               Relevant  standards of BIS are to be complied  with  while
selecting appropriate containers for pesticides.
)               Since  the storage stability of insecticides  varies  wli th
conditions of storage, it is necessary to obtain shel.f
life specifications of each insecticide formulation.   The
consignee   is   required   to   ensure   utilization   of
insecticides before the expiry date in order to avoid  the
problem.s associated with the disposal oL off-specification
products.
Qualityr Ccntro  c" S-'clz frym ctory and Perinpho:
- m?'2zLc n    alitv inrsecticides available for the  n-o,ec
both) i--  cide manu f acturinc i.T-dustr-.y and thle gov-rnm-enz



l have  definite  roles  to  play.   In  order  co  minimise
deterioration  and  degradation  of  the  product   during
storage,  sale or use, various actions are required to  be
performed, viz:
3  .establishing shelf life of the product
* .establishing standards to assign limits on time in
storage
-  .  marking   of  the  manufacturing  and   exDire   dates
conspicuously in the refill bottles & sachets in order
D                    to  make identification of the age of the  product  in
)                    stock
designing the package and control the environment  for
)                   storage to minimise degradation
The manufacturing industry is also required to cbzain  the
feedback on transport and storage conditions by conducting
"depot audit".
In the product label providing product information to
users,   instructions  for  safer  use  of   insecticides,
ingredients   used  and  warninas  of  danger  should   be
invariably included. The accomipanying leaflet should give
supprtive  inorm--atIons which cannot be included  in  the
label.
In crder to maintain superior ingredient quality, the
manufacturers  should  obtain  ISO-9000  registration  and
adcpt ISO- 9000 series standards or BIS 14000 series
starndards  with  a vievw to institutionalisation  oL  total
quality management (TQM) process.
The manufacturer may adopt the Japanese concept of  KAIZEN
(KAIZEN means continuing improvement)  which encommasses
Customer orientation
Total quality control
Robotics
- Quality c3ntrol circles
Suggestion system
Automation
Discipline in thZe Workplace
Total productive maintenance (T?M)
* ljust-in-timelt  production  and  inventory  control
s 'sterm (';kamnbon)
Qua 1lit', TMprovinenrt
Zoro defects
Co- ope_ative laDcur managem-ent relations
NTP.rductivity imcrovement
*Ne~z produlct de-velonmn^!zt



-ns-acticides   Act  1G96   and  Rules  1971   include   B.
_pecifications  and  test net-hods as legal  standards  £-c:
cualit-v  control  the enfcrcement as  regards  qualitv  is
largely  at  th.e state level though central  agencies   -e
aiso involved in these exercises.  At present, nearly  140
technical   grade  pesticides  are  approved   under   the
insecticides Act 1968.  Testing facilities for  pesticides
under  theh Insec'.icides Act 1968 have been created at  the
centre and the states which are detailed elsewhere in this
report.
WHO,  Geneva  provides publications on  specifications  on
insecticides  which  can  be  considered  as  the  minimum
standard  for manufacturing and use.
5.0    Policy Issues Related to Vector Control
i5.2  Sectoral Appr-oach
In  general, vector control programmes operate within  the
policy  framework of the health sector or  municipalities.
However,  the  policies  of  other  sectors  and  national
resource management and development policies, can directly
influence  the effectiveness of vector control  activities
cr indirectly affect the vector borne disease situation.
5.1.1  hiealth Sector Policies
A  key issue in policy modification is the integration  of
malaria  control  into the general health  services,  with
provision for a vector control component, staffed by  well
qualified entomologists and other relevant personnel  that
can function effectively within this structure.
Interministerial and interdepartmental policies involving
-2                the  collaboration  of  Ministries of  Health  and  Family
Wlelfare,  Environment  and  Forests  and  Agriculture   in
addition to municipalities are needed to prevent or delay
the  appearance of insecticide resistance as a  result  of
excessive or improper use of insecticides.
W i ithin  the healthl sector, the Institutional and  capacity
7)               strengthening for environmental management warrants
. training to all levels of personnel involved in IOCP  to
?~                  respond efLectively to situations leading to  decreased
environ-enta l collution
--x     i:.5n;  :tion   of   computer   based    environmental
!a c  : men: ?.system.



Tra* iag  ^¢Te ^zc    : r:-oner training in daveloping jcb  skills
is a prerequisite for successful imolem2ntation of control
s,._t_y .   Traini.G sh5oul C:o  only  inculcate  uDgradrng
technical slcills but also imbibe positive moti-vation among
tra-nCC5   for  developing  hish  degree  o'   discipline,
diligence  and dedication in discharging their duties  and
responsibilities.   The  training in EA will  enhance  the
perfornamnce  of  NMEP  for  the  overall  benefit  to  the
c m,unity.   Stakeholders for a oarticular  community  are
recauired   to   be  identified  for  training   as   these
stalKeholders  are  required to ensure  that  the  proposed
malaria control strategies are environmentally friendly
and sustainable in the long run.
Intersectcral WN0orl}sLp : Workshop can be held in these two
RTLs  where  the  analysts from PTLs can  be  trained  for
analvsis  of environmental samples. Thereafter,  suitable
legislative changes may be incorporated in the Insecticide
Acts & Rules to enlarge the canability of these analysts
to handle envircnmental samples so that environmental
analysis can be carried out at places where insecticide
application is intensive under malaria vector control
programme.
Intersectoral   workcshops   involving  sectors   such   as
irrigation, highway development, housing, fisheries etc.
are also required to develop capability and procedures to
ensure that environmental concerns related to malaria
control are addressed in the EA report submitted by these
sectors to the Ministry of Environment and Forests for
environmental clearances as well as to improve their
awareness of environmental management needs for malaria
control.  The MOH & FW, in consultation with MoEF, prepare
environmental  guidelines  for  malaria  control  in   the
projects which are submitted by the a-orereferred  sectors
from time to time. The workshops should aim to develop
capacity  within MoH & FWA7 to provide  necessary  technical
support   and  guidance  in  environment  assessment   and
management  to other sector agencies/programmes that  have
potential to impact on malaria control.
The attempts for Intersectoral coordination will be a
futile exercise unless the professionals in the concerned
sectors are imoarted training to highlight that the nature
oL  activities  in their respective sectors  wzill  impinge
upon environment with irreparable pollutants besides the
problem of malaria.
Training   and. education  on  methods  to  minimise   the
environmental  degradation especially pesticide  pollution
snall  be  imparted to senior level officers  involved  in
pesticide  production, quality control,  distributic<a. ano
polication.  A, three day aorkshcp may be conducted z.t the
Ditecto-rate of NNZP with the second day for field vis_t to
':indfustan  Insecticides Ltd., Delhi, Central  Insect-icides
JI



£Eo__.d, Faridabad and UMS, Delihi.  The resource Dersons fcr
the  ,ntersectoal w!or,'shop can be d-awn frcm, oranisations
in Delhi suchi as BIS, LART, Technical Division of HIL
Plan: Protecticn Aluthorit,y, I>TIEP, T4ICD, MRC and Sb.ree  P,2m
Test I.House and outside institutions such as TEIRI, liagp
uIT, Bombay, ITRC, Lucknow and NIOH, Ahmedahad.  ALbout  ;5
-participants   from  the  relevant  sectors   of   health,
agriculture,    environment,      fisheries,      nsecticidal
industry,  tocicological testing laboratories,  science  &
technology  and research institutions.  An arricunt  of  Rs.
0.3  millicn  mav  be  allocated  to  the  'irst  naticnal
1)              workshoD and  the funds could be scaled dowin to  Rs.  0.2
3               million for the regional workshops since t'he exnenses  for
travel will be very limited as compared to the national
'workshop.   NEERI, Nagpur can organise the first  regional
workshoo  in the early part of 1997 after a=roval of  the
proposal.
*  Trainer's  Training    The  trainers  in  the   train  -
- t"tes  need  to  update their  knowledae  and  skills
- ..)            th   gh  continuous education and exposure to  the  latest
-  nology in sampling and testing methods for EA.   Since
single  institute can provide faculty to  handle  wide
spectrum  of topics on EA, it is ideal to  suuDlement  the
training  with  guest faculty from  national  institutions
having  expertise  on EA.  A five day  trainer's  training
programme  may be conducted and the first training  course
may  be taken up one month after the  trainer's  trainir
The  participants could be limited to a maximum L number _
25  who  shall be drawn from the Directorate of  NMEP  and
other organisations which are to be involved in conducting
regional workshops and regional training courses.
Tnh4i-uI-cn1  S-engthazing  oF Training  Centres         The
training centre should have infrastructure facilities l.
q                adequate  space,  ideal class room  equipped  with  mode._i
teaching  aids  and well equipped  laboratory  and  animal
house    for   determining   LD50   values    and    other
eDidem.iological  impact  of  insectidides  on   non-target
organisms.   Comnuter for information storage &  retrieval
5stem,   library  with  books,  journals  and  a   highly
prof`cient  team  of  trained faculty on  EA  and  related
tonics are essential pre-requisites fo-r the centre.
It  is  crnosec to st.rengthen the Ditectorate of  NrlEP  as
1N7atincal  Training Centre for EA.  The organization has  a
well ecuip-ed che.imstrv laboratory for quality control  cf
Z, in_  LcLcides.    t  has an  e-.xer:_nced  txc:icologist  ror
t~:ch.;is_y  di sziF.e,  ably as tsted by a  good  team  oF
.the liht  of  enhanced  aCiV4 ties
en-visaW-! zfor  E.'-   a  senior  leel  post  of  mT-dic?l
to:-cicolocTist  should  bS  created.  The  Regional  t-rain.
Oan-res  as  id'2ntifi   belcw may be strengznhened  ,ith  a



cranlt  f       rS.. ,5 ilicr eachl.  -ie n  :tution. iderti 1eo
,or E.A. ae a   o' loa;s :
_'         .   ~~~~~~Induscrial  '17ox-:iclogical Resea---r -.--^   Luc.knc-a,
Utt:ar Pradesh
* -  . Regional Research Laboratory, Jorhat, s.ssam
* .   'National    Environmental    Engineering       Research
Institute, 11agDur, M4aharashtra
*    National Institute of Occupational Health, Ahmedabad,
Gujarat
Indian  pesticides manufacturers make high 2-c--its at  the
Q5               esxmense  of  en7i-ronmental oollution.  It should  be  maae
mandatory that th-e such industries shculd invest at  least
5%- of their Drcrit for development and,  di ssemiLnation  of
I_C to the arass-roots level to minimise the  e .nvironmnental
daamage.
'aviromental  Kannage-et   tnfo-&lo  Sy-, Malaria
control  asroaches  should be  based  cn  ec-c-demiolc_ical
reasoning throuch a well develoDed manacenW   nrmat2.on
system (MIS). Since coc-dination with secto-s o1:er  than
health is often necessary, MIS should be interfaced with
other  sectors  to  provide holistic  account  of  malaria
ecology, environrm-ental status and insecticide _se  pattern
in the area under in-_vestigation for olanning of intecr=ted
malaria   control  through   inte-sectoral   coordination.
District infor..a,ion system of national infor-matics ce---e
(DISNIC) has provision for collection of info_raticn  from
periphery  to the district, state and the  cenrl  levals
which  can  be effectively utilized  fo- m_-in .an_  a
updating  information  system.   Gecrarncal  Information
System (GIS), in addition, provides the envircnmental c -a
for  generating scenarios in malaria control  C__G:ac.e.'.
Environmental Man.naacement Information System (Q:KIS) o   tC . 
..ational  Malaria  Eradicaticn  Progcgrame is  the  sum  cf
seDarate managem=nt informa-ion systemes pertainin  to
Policies and                  4 nceours  o  -sectnc:dC
Regulatory tracking system
Accidental release and Sn41l Managemsnt
Employee training and statement of job accountability
Figure   S  saows the  three t -er E:lIS system   e-  m.la-i_
control.
Ln inventory of fish and honey bee pcpulation is  recui-re--d
to  be maintained in areas where indoor residualz s7ray in7g
and  bed-net  -pDrzra=e  with  synthetic  p,-eth-o:_s  a-e
planned.   Areas where CDD  is the insecticide  c-  cnoico,
i's content in cattile an-z mother millhs as well as in: aciry



,     .     -.             G  C   - ~   L   i ~ -  
[A1SCell at NIM.EP
ni<:                                                       Regional Ofc   fH&F
DistntMaa aLUnit
|nsectcide A!lysts
PH  S               State Pollution Control Board|
NUtl V   Mhalaria Link Voluntear           Panct ayats           N MPW: Multipurpose Woricer
tl-^'VJ    Multi Purpose W/ori(er           .. _     
{DDC   :Drug Distribution Centre
J ED     Fever Treatment Depot
RFig. 5 Thr,n Tier ERMIS Sys.Uom <or Mjlalaria Control



@-z c---~r-'~~  ae --c'-_    +-D :to  ,C' .ote  _o-- Tninc-2-c    oZ
acc&otaoe cnily -.nzFnk   ('I ) .-nd no-effect level (ITe).01
y'.eve:-  7,J   n  Ni iXo_ ;il A  increase  beyond  s:i-ulatec
li-._ts,  DDT  a.olical- on for m.,2alaria  prcramme  t 1 1  z
c-_ScOnnzinuCd  fcrth-t;,m     a:ter  a  consultation  :;-h  t:-e
directorate  of li_?.  Material handl4nc  data  s.e=ts  for
tie  designated  insecticida(s)  should  be  su1:ed   to
:e-sons  involved in sto;age, transportations  application
o- the insecticides for malaria control.  The shee-s  ha;e
rec-ired  in'ormation  cn toxicity,  antidotes  and  s  'il
management strategy.
Each area under i-nsecticide application mmust maintain  the
resistance status, including that of cross-resista.ce,  o'
the vectors.  The status need to be periodically  reported
to the Directorate of 1-4MEP.
Em-loyee  training  should  have a curriculum  c.  h-ow  to
collect reauired data to calculate ADl & NiO-L and  colla:e
the  same  in the form of a. resort.  The  training  should;
also  state  the Drocedures ror management  of  z'-dern.al
release  of insecticides and spills and for repocr-..c  th:-
same to the collector, o-fficials of the Pollution  Control
Board, inspector and directorate of .YvEP.
In  collaboration  with  the  Ministry  of  Finance,   tre
Ministry  of J -iealth  and  Family  wel-fare  (NloH  a   F;.),
Covier-nment  of  Ir.cia, should develon fiscal  policies  to
pro=ote  effective co=rm.unity involvement  in the  planning
ana o-oeration of Tlaria control.
iTn  VieW of the -need for raDid and e 9pctive resc-cnses  to
4idemic  situations,  paricularly those  comn;.licated  L%
-Latidrug  resistance in border areas and  refugee  cam-.s,
po lcies   nitiated  by  the MoH &  FW   are  rec_Uired  to
e-.edJte internaticnal collaboration and action.
5.1.2  Develc-==ta2. Sectc0- Policien
-he ^:  IMinistry  o-f e-alth & Family WNelfare should  play  .-n
aCive-  role  in th,e -for=-lation of o_tolics _s  relevant  to 
l     and  w tae  r -  sou-c    2r e l osent . ''anIF : Cng' '  s.o "', 0 _
an asszes-asen  of t 1e li-elv i.ac-  cn  hcz2;:  to
Gn.sur_   th-t L -~'2o _  ,          c;_ _  r2 _   _ _urz 3-  3_t9-,_ CT'*- 
c'.i n    o n  ,_                       br din- and a   in se
n _.  .                            ,- i C  n
- _-^-~-.et i-  L:_ ;0 4 _--              s s--u Te  st-; L  :-4sn z c
J -             t.e 2- zortncn  ^    --c-I--  -nt  Ean; a-i-'_
~----i>ces  fo ;.-_-          n   d c cn   - r c I '
@  c_:_ ve cr -  r- re c  -ases.



5,1. ,7Pgricultura! Suctor Policies
;,gricultural  polioie. relatintJg to irric.:tion  d ev"lonoment
ancd n;anagement, insecticide use, land tenure and use,  and
research  have 2 potential ipactc on hup2n health.   These
policies  should  be  ex'amined  by  MoH  &  F'i who  would
.recom,mend  adjustmornis wherever appropriate. For  example,
use  of synrthetic pyrcthroids as  agricultural  pesticides
should be discour-qed in situations where the selection of
resistant malari  vector is likely.
5.1.4 Environmental Sector Policies
'f.   Envi.ronmental Imp,tct Assessment  Notification,  1994,
issued  by  the  MIinistry  of  Environment  and   Forests,
rec3;.ires  any development project, listed in  schedule  of
the notification, to obtain environmental clearance  after
submitting  an  Environmental  Impact  Assessment   Report
-oeparcd  in accordance with the guidelines issued by  t he
,:inis-try  of  Environment and Forests from time  to  time.
The  health  sector should ensure that  health  impact  is
included  in  environIental impact  assessments  and  that
P-roject   plan  incornorates   health   safeguards,   w-ith
provisions  for  any  necessary  strengthening  of  health
se_vices.     Tn   collaboration  with  th'ne  14inistry   of
Environment  and  Forest,  the iMoM  &  FW  should  develop
procedures   for   environmental   review,,   scoping   and
assessment for future malaria and related programs in  the
heailthl sector and also to prepare specialized training and
technical su-port to enhance capability w.ithin the  health
sector for environr.ental review and assessment.
5.1.5  Legal, Regulatory and Instiltutional Aspects
:\'c;ever   good  the  malaria  control  strategy  may   be,
im-eaningful   results   shall  emerge  only   when   legal,
-egulatory  and institutional aspects of  ma'aria  control
are  adequatelv addressed and intersectoral  collaboration
;s  assured.  The control programme is financially  viable
z  the  r.et  cost  benefit from  1953-54  to  19 76-77  at
constant  prices  indicated  that  every  rupee  spent  on
a:l:-ia  control  and  eradication,  since  1953-54,   has
src c-h t  in a  enefIt of Rs.9.27.   However, this  benefit
nCeds to bet  retermir.ned  n the present contexIt.
The lisecticide Act came into force from 1st August, 1963.
The  Act   as  amended'  twice   in   1972 2and  1977.    The
insecticides  Rules,  1971,  were framed  by  the  Central
Lo\'Qrrn.2nt  :.l.'h I  cam-e into force on  th e  30th  October,
19 71.  These r:le  w!ere amended twtice in 1977 and once  in
I'3{:to  andr 199(,'3 . Thfe Licensincj Officcrs,  tile  Insecticide
I:; l, c t  n--    and   the  Insecticide   Analysts   are   thie
ut h,ritieL  to imple:nent and enforce the provisions of the
6 ()



N               ,c_,  c.and  the 7ul_s rmaci LlheLreunCier.  w,i le 1 h   C  t-:h
-  Gov;e:^rnmlent rnG~. &Do'; t;II  .secticicle Insnectcrs c-.c;  t2
Insect-cidc    :!lysts,  the  Licenssing  OLf fcrs  cCn   be
F cs)Ointed only, by the State Governmients.
The  Insecticide Rules 1971 provide e,haustiv_  guiA--lΩs
to the aQplicanL and the enforcing authorities with regar-
-to  the  premises,  the  ecui pments,  storace  cor.ditions,
safetv  measures to the workers - both factory  and  firm,
disposal of used packages, surolus materials and w7ashings,
etc.
Health  being  a  state  subject,  the  responsibility  oc
imDlementation of the malaria control progra=me rests with
the  States and amendment of the  r-evailing Acts  L  Rules
are  warranted  to  increase  the  powers  of  th-e  State
Implementatio.n  Agencies  to protect human  health  &  the
0_i environment.  Wihile  granting  licenses  for  insecticide
manufacture, the Licensing Officer takes into acccunt  the
clearances from the Pollution Control Board, the InS_ector
of Factories and other Agencies.  Such licesnsc  shold  ow
be  ar=nted only -'ho t'  e Licc3sirg O_ic; -s         isIie6
that ,the .rao-ufcturer cza  Z-,elv cisnose c- ..-S I      zt zes .
_nsecticj'des =ad suca w-odchtS do "ot- n  UO    -.n
for vector cont-ol.
The Insecticide Inspector who is t.o ensure safety to human
beings  and  animals and environment by keeping  a  strict
vigil over the manuvfacture, sale, transnort  nt t:-e use of
insecticides sh-culd be thorcughly trained to handle  spi'l
management   and   to   u'anage   accidental   release  oG
insecticides in the environment.
Licensing officers and the Insecticide Inspectors of a
state   must  ensu-e  that  the  pestici4ds   banned   for
agriculture  but  recc=ended  for use  in  Public  Healthn
P-rocra=nes  sh.ould  nct find their  ways  in  a-griclture.
These office-rs must also ccordainate with the Kealth Sector
OEficials   to   cbta'n i  information  about   the   vector
insecticide  resistance s-atus o- a particular regicn   so
that the use of that insecticide can either be  restric-cc
cr eliminated.
Th^e  n.sec_icC r  ca t  mt.    a ls o0  -c r-- -   .- rC--'t
s amol es  for  . -  ie ara.,-s is.  The analvsCs  . .-  all
the n--essary. e::r _        analyse insect   c_ ?o    _      _
a oCilvt-  sarmol-.  T'-is e -,-_-72sa can be eX . nt   Lo  z a
the  ar.alvscs  to S.n 1    - inse ctici es    i ?
s a..-elcs.  TTeer  cr--;   ri-ices                        4
TLs) establ s     b;-,-   cGe Svc.e G-.r
* -             Unaon  Tritories, --- r..-.I....  a S-aizi ton t;o tL, 0  -.a.l   esi::;,
>  Laboracries  7;--Ls) s-t ic b  thne Centra%l G-L e.r:. ;'  a
Chandigarh an_ :,.-- u_.
-D_



.?,t presonu, malaria control all over thi coun.t.o  barriln
DefenCe, Railways and few special ace.ncies rests wit4h  the
i.,l2.   zHowever  indunt:-ial  sectors,  tea   ard   co f.fc-
ilUdUtri^O    river wlley projects for irrigat.cn of Cnore
;tl,an  10,000 hea, mining projects, airportI an   secuorns
and projects involving construction of roa.ds aind buildings
lave  adequate finance and, if trained proper-ly, can  have
competence to carry cut the control programime  themselves.
Ii  these sectors are taken out Of fMEP, it  will  relieve
:,;EP  to  enable them to concentrate more on  cth.er  areas
h1ich  ha9va neither adequate financial support nor  prooer
institutional  arrangement to control malaria.  If  it  is
not  possible to take out some of the sectors ou: of  NE-P
and if such sectors need to incorporate engineering
methods  of  malaria conitrol,  implementation  of  malaria
control programme in these sectors must be ensured through
intersectoral   collaboration.   Eliciting   intersectoral
collaboration  on routine basis may require legal  support
and   provisions  should  be  made   through   appropriat
aiimendments,  extension of existing law;s or by framing  nei.-
-. nat,.o.n. l task: force for c-n-virrcn-_z   control zhould  he
e t a  iszod  to   nte2 rct f      th  r..e lvnt    inietries  an. -
r-c: =  concernsd  with        1   > c^_trol  :o  ems=ue  t'
velo zn 1  ^-- - -^and i1- _nn tat_ cn of c _--- nz- -s ?ot policiezc  on
control    d    disease   Drention    in
r- :r i    tn  a 21 1y   Friendly    afie  end   to    pcrcte
;. >;;---ee -ot-. r a   colhboion, CM.    h   =iectoa- te  of  ;Z
be d   - c-^-p_sztz-d in the tas.: for.   ' tkforcc..
.    and  th.                  3 r-..'_try   ec _    . c. _,s u, ch  tc  t h
C  -al   t. thC S tate Pollution Cor o1 Eoa r L t o  r eC I.
._ __l _z .:..._ _ _to time, tlie im2act on   Lar_  control Po-o-;ra_z
C,n  cT ii                    of ftria :conto wrc for lulatc
-  ;,      -
Thle  tas.'- force shall analyze environmental  policies  and
L;±e soci-al issues of the sectors involved in the p-ogramme.
Land  sh:all  identify  the gaps  a-nd  -.;^-eaknesses.  i-  any,
resultinc   in  iw.clemen,tation  of  t'he  malaria   con1trol
rrn a non-en;-', -or-,ntallv friendly rm,anner.   Thr-
t'' La 21 I_in  suc'hi cases  should  evolve  an  alternafz 
_:-r.-te:    aftMr analyzing the feasible alt2ernatives  which
ill b-e both env--ironmantallv and socially acceptable.
:.ff.cuol c-rson, inC her book "Silent Spring" q;uestion_cd  t'uLe
'.;iSdcia icf  using  insecticicdes for  crop  prc_ection  ae.c
oblic  halth  r,ucrposes.   Tdeally,  if  agriculture  an.a
(52



p-UoL ±-c  hl-Itc'   can Cc?   m ain.tairi-ed  -ithCut  insectic4 :cos,
t  r e   is  .o  -2ee  to  release  :.nsecticides   in   tne
envirc.-l'C. 2O n2    i, in trco-ical  ountrei-S  liike  IdFi_,
:here  cli zic--_c  ccn`i tics are hi  1y  conuc-ive  tO  th
p-a  fera.icnL  of  a  variety o    Mera  azd  species  of
mosquito, the ccnsecuences of trar. ..ission of malaria  has
stood in the ;-,y of progress in agriculture and industrial
sectors.  Insecticides in India account for as much as 83%
of the total production of chemical pesticides.
DDT,  in  India, cannot be use2  in agricultu-re &  its  use
under the public health programme is restricted to 10,000
MT a year except in the case of a major outbreak.   Almost
the entire cruantity of DDT, 26.3% to 28.7- of HCH and
40.5%- to 66. 79 of malathion produced in the  country  are
used for public health.
Environmental  management plan (EMP) for  malaria  control
using  insecticides  are  essential  as  improper  use  o-
insecticides can lead to
*   increase in vector resistance
release of insecticides in the envir-onment
which, in turn, reduces the efficacy of the insecticide in
question.
Since the use o' insecticides for malaria control is mucn
lower than that of aoriculture, malaria control  progra=e
involving insecticides, may not lead to vector  resistance
to insecticides especially where the same insecticides are
also   used   in   agriculture.   Resistance.   mznagemenz
n2_essitates   use  of  several   different   insecticides
(includina  biocides) in rotation to reduce the  select-ve
cressure  on any of the undivided  insecticide.   Further,
the  vector control options that are  currently  av1ilable
;-ith- insecticices are
*   indoor residual spraying
-  use oz personal Drotection measures
-laviciding
nlike irn the case of aricultural pesticides, the use  C:
-z sc- ia  in-S^ciCi      fcr adult  mrsusc-1 ic  control  pos-
Uractical>, little cr no danger of environmental pollut_oc
-  h':e s-:'i~-  iS  cOne cnlv on the inner walls and  roofs
CoLf  houses an- , as such, the c'hances of  the  insecticides
C -llt7inzr  the  s-il c-r wter is  minimal.   However  care
snould  e take-n ~o  nueta
*  The ^neessary £a-stv ore-cautions are taken at th
ti.:: of  in-ect cides use and disoosal.  To reduce
the ri-sk^s cf ac-ide-.1s and damage tc  realth or to
e  natural  env--ronmre:nt, it -s  essential  tha7-
a-c C7ra-4ae   pr ec au:ons   be   taken   in   t..e



.i2ndliniIc! a id  disposal  of
.5 :t-t.cides.  In polarticulc-*-, p- ckizgnc-J standards
shzldwll! be adocunte to elimrnate  the  accidental
releaS3e  vhicn  can occur  during  trar.svort  and
storac~e.   Loca.l cack;acin  should conform to  the
TAO  Guideliines for the Pacl:kaang and Stsorae  o
pe^sticides  (1935) and the BIS standards and  the
empty  containers should be treated as  hazardous
waste  as these fall under the waste categorv  no
17  under the schedule of Cateorv  oL- Hazardous
wastes  as per the - azarCus  Wastes  (MHanaement
and Handling) Rules, 1909
The date expired insecticides, if any, should  be
sent  to a secure landfill aS these  wastes  fall
under w.aste category No. 17 of the  aforereferred
schedule.     The   GIFAP   publication    titled
Guidelines  for  the  Avoidance,  Limitation  and
Disposal   of  Pesticide  Waste  (1987)  may   be
consulted for disposal of date expired nesticide-
Synthetic pyrethroids shculd not be used for  IRS
in areas targeted for insecticide - treated  bed-
net  use  if  the  development  of  physiological
resistance is to be prevented or delaved.   Th-ir
use   as   ag-icultural  pesticides   should   be
discouraged in sitLuations where the selection  of
resistant  malaria  vector is  likely.   Wherever
synthetic pyrethroids are used, care should be
taken  to see that the insecticide(s) do(es)  not-
spill into surface water as these are extremel-
toxic  to fish.  Also these  insecticides  should
not  be  released  at  places  wher-e  honey   bee
cultivation is in progress
Thle local authority, responsible for distribution
of insecticides for malaria control, should ha-ve
knowledge   and   information  on   tox-icity   o
insecticides,  potential  exposure  proble;,.s  ancL
method(s)   of  safe  application   and   cossess
protective   clothings   and   equipments.    The
authority  should also ensure clear  and  durable
labelling o' all packages to depict thhe hzrfous
na ure c. the insecticides.  Thle label should  I,
In.. appropriate la-nguag-e and shiould be  consis ten
.ithl  inte-nationally accepted standards suc`.  a
those  snecifiea  in the FAO Guidelie2s  cn  CGcod
Lelling _ .rac ti_ces for Pesticides (1935)
Alth_ c'C  al             C n1y   C  a ntn.s s   s 1n u fe?
df: urov_i>d,  I is uS relistic to o:-'2Ct  aherenc_e
--eD t'lis rule4 i.n countl-ries 'here such  con _cinerS
t-    nor, ma'tll    r.-c TCol -     voii      zn
---^c:'l i.n1 _rom c-:' -ecvclin., manufacturers should b2.
r. .



-  en.Ccu am   by   thle  Governraent   to    nesgn
rzon. _--zble con.ta±ne:es
't  is :rortn  to  lsurei a     at -no zmee^o;a-  cosa  -e  _s
2&ooli_   .or i.secticide - treated bednts  and.  cur^a-ns.
Jhe  s ills   _-enrated  during  itm-Lpreg∂nation  are  to 5e
collected and, after mixing with the washings of t h e e  t oy
insecticide conzainers, needs to be subjected to  chemical
>ciestructi on in S.tu.  The workers ens=g--d in  im._ec-z-:cn
cpera:icon shculd wear gloves and mask:s  to eliminate  s'in
contact   with  insecticide   and   inhalation   ecosu-re
res_ectively
Larval control *-ith chewicals could be the sole met'h.   o,
-c               vector  control only w.hen high prorio nc OL ten  bDre  -_n
sites within  fcscuito flight range of the conmmurity to  be
nzrotected  can  be  located and are  accessible,  aGnd  the
2                breedin   sites are of manageable s; ze.  Tem_e =os is  ..ch
safer  althouch  it l-ills insect credators  cf- mnosz-_c-s
such   as  noto-actids.   F F c t i: ng   a --ers   cr F    aa
polytyrene  beads  prevent  mosquito  bre_zdnc-n for    - lO-
perio_s,  especzally  off  An.  Steoen.si,  wh.en  usec   in
coni-ned sites such as cess2its and water tan]:iS.
Insect  growth  regulators (methoprr, -Or  e::a.1 Mle)  and
bacte=i_l   toxin.s   (biocides)   p_omuccil   by   Babcilluas
thuringiensis  :H-14 and Bacillus scphaercus are much  .ore
n specific to m.oscuito larv-ae.  ...............................owever niocices,  curre'-y
available, have low perss-Sten ce and, therefore, need to be
croduced  loca ll  at aL ra  t<v-  low cost.  In  fct,  in
-~ :1            Thailand,  it  was  demonstrated  that  b icidas  can   ' 
produced locally in a least cos. effective m-anne-r.  Toxis
-rodu-ced  by  both these organisms are non-toxic  to  r.cn-
target  organism.s  ard  safe  to  warm  blcoded  aenimals.
':owever,  care should be e::erc_sed to aprv?  the  orca^nihs
-wherev-er sericulture is being practised
Wherever possible, an integrated vector cc-ntol m.ranageen
Program.e mus.ut ^e applied  nhe-re inse-ticides,  -           & 6J4C4-S
b iocide-s  should be suizab v e lm  yed.  Cn:c  * e;t Q,ZO  D
_:erC:s    to _.   _o_ t2_,,  s:      r ._
C C  . -   '---.- n.::7  JZ_s2, i_  :  _            ._
be  restricted to t      _      C   S    ---V       : ;_CD -L --^  ':
but  a I o-  to- n c:  -    asLsam _ _ _ Z. _                .
i n s cticie 'r' c--:cs  an-d  the                 4
i n hi b  CItin.    S`eciLIC  Let o-i f icat:ion  -
possible, the ac nlcat_ion oz vetor70  Conto!-C  acen:s
be  focal.  T- e  o _ of t-he foci sEceLeced   ill,   0
depend  Upon fli4ght r.an.ges, d_istribution, br-eedsriri nc - --I--/
. 9



natrural ba.rr:.ers and other narametc-1r  vhich inflluence  the
mmO-etmCent OL 'Jc't-or species.
Table  10 show.s the activity chart  on  the  environme.n-i
management olan.
*     ~7.0    2.csaa.cL _.nd devo c._nt
-S
U     ',t,s;'lam 1 cd   7Z   t  D    efortf r   ar    rrzirtd   if
-  n-.,--fi.-C-_-1ty--<-d1ny ;nc_cch -s';o  s un ed   a    ,=
-'              -of a Ccct-e-XCCt±VC'C i -- egred va'ct   cotro'  atae-gy.
C _e c-n -^ .nrt nod:
* .  or ta the   regular   monito-ing    o        insecticiea'a
suscetibilitv of vectors
* , t3o detect ant monitor insecticide resistance in vectors
-  .   to i.to  ret res-ults of resistance testing
*  to  make  decisions on when to change to  a  different
insecticide and, if so, to which cne.
The Directorate of NMEP  is recruired to identify  suitable
national laboratories to be designated as responsible  F
the  support  of  the prZoosed  national  malaria  contrc_.
prograrmme team for
* . Identifying  and cauantifying insecticides  at  various
niches of the enviro.ment subjected to vector  control
progra= ae
-  .  Resistance  detection and monitoring  using  bioassae
and biochemical techniques
* .  There is some evidence for th-e larvicidal efficacy  of
local botanical products such as those obtained from
-1                  neem   (Azadirachta   indica)  which   merit   further
investigation.
Prospects  of  using monomolecular  surface  films  in
mcsqa-to control shlould be explored
In  the  walk,e of the 1992  United  Nations  Conference  on
Environmsen.t and Devel opmenLt and the adoDtion of Agendda 21,
research  policies have shifted tcwards tlhe  promiotion  o4 
*  mul idisc4linary,    problem-oriented   studies.       I;is
opJOrtu!nicv,  shlould  be  harnessed in  support  of  vecto-
control  research that requires multisectoral  action  anA-5
community involvement.



Thble 10      Activities Chart for the Vnvirorneintal 11:?negeM^nt '"an
M! qrl4:--:hcdul>-. Y2.!le                        flenponri!blo           Tft1.  tchodu1o              C;o1,.rliance
LCti v.vty             O  it: out                 Prto! (n)              &c Icroource                  Tools
1. Malariogenic        Achievable selective   tUlMEP and llRC             Prior to the on-set of   Disease rrofile ?.,
nIi.rcr t rait i -  a,id cost cffective                               the IRS                       epidemiologicail
ficat ion co       vector control                                                                  determi nsinL. n
village level    strategy
especially for
IRS &, mtN-II and
nmonitoring of
vector
resistance
2. Manageme1nt of    Lesser emergence of    NNEP                          Resistance monitoring    H1110 test
Insecticide        Vector resistance                                  activity should go           protocol
resistarc e in                                                        concurrently withi the        to be adopted
Vector                                                                entomological data
m1onitoring done by I111EP
3. Per>sncIal          Rodu!ctionl in             Persons responsible Contin1uous activity             Regular
protect io n       occur)ationial hiazards   for occupational         With resourcc fromTI          he-althl
to in.siecticide                              lhazard mitigation    thc concerned sector           mon-itorinig
handlers in                                    in thle concerned
different                                      sector
sectors
(Colnt ...



;  1rpon a ib 1       TILIU3 "Sch3dulo            Cc=plianca
y4-   -;?     bfirO_L3                  Person(s)             & Rooourea                  Toola
izoc . 'C- c-     Reluz- i-.1 n             Concerned sector   Continuous activity           Regular
_c r.-cd        in;;eccici-i              in consultation    with resource from            Environmental
C cr,'.;]i .. r'I-S &  poIlui i             with the Meaber    the concerned sectors    monitoring in
"I,tes L e,                                Secretary of the                                 terms of sPecific
State Pollution                                  insecticides &
Control Board &                                  & toxicity
Other Stakeholders
5. inclusion of       Project fund can be    Flinistry of            Immediate                   Appropriate notirica-
Director of       utilized for malaria   Environment              implementation              ticn through Gaze:ze
NMEDP inl         control thereby           and forests,
Environmental    sparing the limited
Pcppraisal        resource available
committee of      with 0WMEP for malaria
Develonmenntal    ccntrol
ProjeecL`
6. Preparation) of   A docunent depicting   Central Pollution   Decenber, 1997                    Financial assistance
%:2ste generation the identification        Control t3oard                                    to a consultant w;ho
inventory from   and quantification                                                           will prepare the
Tnsecticide       of wastes generated                                                         document
ranufacturing
industries
(Cont. )



t; d        _  U   J ,.  u                         0       ij .IUtzLt  U            I.1  eJw          s'   i'    Jtt   F'{   .o_''    .(   S' 
rP.L*(IUjiIé(I          ISestirabh1 fSespoIrsiIlc                             Time Schedule                  Compliance
Activity                 Outguts                      Persori(s)               & Resource                     Tools
7. (*ua it   coIrLoL  InsIec:tici des wit.l           InsectLicidc  mano fac  Imme iatct                       Compl jances
of insect:icides   sp2ci.fied quality             -turing ind.ustry,         implementation                specified under
frorr  factor-y to  can hDe supplied              licensingc officer,                                      section 4.3.2
per iphcr'y          for  ivalaria control.    insecticides
(fD-I(' - ]. ity             inspectLor cnid
ins:ct icicles will not  insecticide analyst
create waste disposal
T. rrainiillJ tIo        I dultification and          rthEP, insecticide    Imtnecliate implementation Training
ull:fctiC ide        qutntIif ication of          analyst(s)
analysfL f.ir        in;céct.icides released
anal yI !'i.IJ       ill the env i rollnieiit
environwerlntal
sall ples
9. Legal anendioents Implemelntation of               NMEP and Sector          Inmediate                    Framing of new  laws in
and framinrg of    intersectoral                  other thani lhealtlh   Implementation                   consultation  with the
new lawls            collaboration &                                                                      concerned ministries
formuLlation of
Malaria Control
1l) ("roa-lt-ijonl *-A*    Cr,I ;? (lit    *ii'Iii'I:;   IIMP    Firfmi  (L !;  IliiI iiii ntI all(m n  Of o               iflml.mmW:
glnt: i 011.-n) a . i;  15p I i : it?5 1- JOl ide  iw-f; Ore L oher  than healtha 1   iwn!! Cmfntat ioll  pol icie; & gOk ido  1  !
Force for            on (iil aria contrtol                                                                in consultation eith
r.!,lnnta 1                                                                                             the ZioEF.



The   proposed   R  &  D  efforts  should   be   exercised
concurrently .viTh the proposed malaria control  programme.
F'undin g  for  rEsearch projects on those  aspects  may  be
soucjht   from  The  ':orld  Hlealth  Or_ -anisation  and   the
Department olf B ot'.echlnoljogy.
3.0   RPol-a of  'ERi in EA During the Continuan-ce of m4cp
NEEIU's role in the oncjoing programme will be :
monitor residual irnsec_icides level in the
adjloining     environmental       niches     after
insecticides application
ensure  mitigation  of negative impacts  of  the
programme, if any
identify   institutional  needs   to   implement
environmental  assessment and recommendations
evolve  development  of a long  term  monitoring
plan to use GIS to track malaria prone areas and
study the impact of IMCS on the environment
ensure  inter-agency and public/NC-O  involvement
during implementation of the programme.
9 . 0    Recommeandations
9.1    Broad Recomrmendations
9.1.1  As  a primary preventive step, it is  necessary  to
carry  out  environmental  control  of   mosquitoes
through E-1N by eliminating of their breeding  sites
in   the  house,  around  the  house  and  in   the
community.    All  urban  areas   should   strictly
implement   civic   by-laws   for   prevention   or
elimination  of  intradomestic  and   peri-domestic
mosquito  breeding  places as set  by  Brihanmumbai
Municipal  Corporation. In many UMS towns, the  by-
* laws  lare not implemented despite promulgation   of
vcry strict civic by-laws.  The !M1CP should initiate
cleterrent    action   for   derelict on   in    the
implementation of legjal provisions for keeping  the
environie,nt clean andc healthy.
9.1.2  Tlhe  1-CFP  has  to involve  diff'erent  sectors  for
un,drta:-ing   EMM   for  source   reduction.    T he
Oirectorate o olf NIrE  and MR conducted large  number
'F  trainling ; !.ork;s!iops  on  E'd,i. Admrninistrative
..ction i, resuLred to co-Amit the concerned  sectors
to  aionet nreventive measures.  The Directorate  of-
4T E P  she    tal.1ck  a lead role in  tLis di raction.



v e i c 7 C e: tc _a ~ iver Va  i_  ?2rojects shoueLd C_llocatLe
c.t least. 2^..- of :he D] ?   np ut:S  c- 7- re tion o.
-.reczor borie  5e 5 _Se. fs ni st r      7- vrOn -2n,
r7crests  should ma.:e tL;e Direccor o  '.. 2  as  za
erm.anent , me me r  o,  t:re  Rie,iver  Vlla /  D-o ct
.,npraisal ComLmittee so t-hat the deveo   nta!  w ork
does  not   zc- inge on 'te fracile  -;e al:h  cf  the
lower  stratum  of tLhe scciety and cn  t;.e  limkied
resources ava4lable with the directorate o- :c1^-.
9.1.3  As ms alaria  is  a local  and  foccaald sease,  the
strategies for its control sh-ould be Toanned a2 the
local level. The decision making at the local lev:el
would    prommote  quicker  responses  _cr   malaria
control.   To  promote  sust.ainahili-Lt,   communityr
involvcv.ent  in  plannir.n  and implenenta:at' on  is  a
mur-st.    Communitv irnvolvement   would    promcte
sustainability   and  ownership.   .s  ma_r a   is
directly   or  -nCirect',o poDaaaLte    cv!  vraicus
sectors,  the  involvemer-t  of  these  se^to-s   in
malaria control activaties is necessary.
9 9.1.   The  overdenendence  cn one or more   cms _-nents  C:
malaria control is to be avo ded. Tnereds noed for
undertaking   a  balanced  view  of   the   various
4nterventions  a-v-ailable  and us-e th  a      e oar rth
Orevailinc  local nIeeds. This  bot^to-up  arpc ac h
will  need upgradaticn of technical  JLoW_'lec_  and
skills  at  the State, Distirict and T.C  levels  by
-ntensive traininz. To ma   t:"e oeo?: aawrs cf the
Malaria cont_rol stra-egies, an imD         In_orm  Co
Education   and  Commmunication  (IEC)  h;a's  to   :e
- developed. Involve-ment of the local health st -ff in
the decision makl'nc process, oromoticn o0  co--uni!-y
p art-cipation and s_ectoa-i approach w i-1 o  a CO ZF- cnc
w2:ay   to   make  the  orczra-mm          a._
;                -~~~~ace?table.
9.1.5  - he   integrated  vector  control   s:rate,       L_ust
consider  oct-minatioan of insecticidca:s  alication
(for  vector control an. ce-rsonal  crc:c.o)  ann
bzi cenv_ro--nmenza l control_ 3 m      -1sur ie s  _zS    ; -
-3  ;n-.tte~u1 i~   .............. -I  - r= 7i iz::r-: ^ Cr:
9.1.b   ca_zi_ v   cs. an  sf~-Z mut 
9  .acvi CoYnst i           us _n b                 -
I  a-r ia    control. tlse  C'    cost . 4__
'0's  erficacy  mea: 5.
.L,ese che.  _S  '"0_1-'D  O.2S_.ri^--=--  
=Fficac  off aen i..sect,     mains-
cde_rminan  for env     - 1  asse,s  -         ' )
acute and cnronic to-.-ici  of the ir  c:: .e,:_
persist.ence ir tn  enrn .e  and t:                 :
71l



'--':'  in t1    ! 4-in body dnecd to  ' tah-en in to
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eC¢'-  '.OU  ;i 1- `21 o vuz  i''   -he    '
-  1.7  .7: x-zior1  t, s;crce  cn              a,Vr.  -   cr
Id d e  established to inte-act  with  rele-e 
n.inist es  a-nd  Sec_ors  cOncC-rned  with   malaria
ccntrol    to    ensure   the    develonment    and
_-1 ementation  of  consistent colicies  on  vector
control    an d    disease    Drevention      n    a.n
env-ronm!ental1v  friendly  manner, and  to  promote
>  ntersectcra 1  collaborat-on.  The  Directorate  of
i.IP snou' d be represented in the task- force.   The
ta-sk fo_oce will formulate policies and  strategies,
-.SEt  st anards, przpare -uidelines  and  coordinate
activities  of malaria control programme to  ensure
its  imolementation in an environmentally  friendly
manner.
D.2  ~ciffic  zco mn-daticn
9.2.1  The iTIEP needs to establish criterial selection  of
insecticides  for  IRS, larviciding  (chemical  and
biological)   and  bed  net  impregnation.    While
establishing  these  criteria,  the   insecticide's
efficacy   tow;ards   target  organisms,   cost   of
aoplication, and safety and acceptability to human
beings, nontarget organisms and environment must b-
taken into consideration.
9.2.2  Tle   1?!MEP   needs  to   establish   criteria   for
apolication  of  insecticides  (adulticides  and/or
larvicides) based on WHO recommended techniques  of
stratification to achieve max,:imum possible coverage
of high risk areas.
9.2.2   The1-.    'NEP   needs     to     develop      clea-
;  'oIo-c  -'Guidelines, based on FAO'S  Internationa.
C. 8      Conduct on the Distribution  and  Use  of
PesLs;,;des  for handling storage and  transport  of
insecticides used in the programme
9. 2 .4  T'he U4EP needs to  continue sequential trials  withi
..?rag^-5.ted   bed-ncts   as  recommended   in   ODA
: l' S'-i.O' " 5   co^u-mInnt   and   identify    a.ssoia L:e
ie-!a cl  issuJs  related to  such1 trials  before
~-vr2it ng   h a vily   on  thle  proposed   massiVe
_ 5 'i.   i .., t-  s o carr r   ont c::ha-.,usi_v2  rev%;r.  c-.
'"-. 'l.se  cC la.-rjvro tZ  .17s nh for  osauito  l -.r-.c :
e c ' must c^ns  c   lis  e:: -iencc- ir
ffi. _ , _  w eFCy s-sL   ! of - C u-p es", ,'l i '  lifishes and  siiWJi-i
o:-2d f i hs arn1 their n<c-t on the  indizenou!.
72



;.2.6  The             al- G-U'ria C'GOntol- T progra-re  2 sT a _  ._SCS
curtailman:  o,  e-:tnsive  use of  iSCc-    C se:s  b,
-es_-c_i..-  Ts  co  h;ighly endemi    a e nd  b
- n troouc i.  tI7-s in cther a reas to rouc-   :S  CAS
Gor  as cSsible.  The efficacy anrd  crac:icailiuv
of substi 'ing IRS with iCr\ need to be  o.orougnhly
assessed  by  >he 1ThIE? in ccrsultation with- .e  MRC
before  e.._carking into the expensive  prcgra=me  of
providing 1i27 throughout the countrny.
9 .2.7  There is an imioerative need to irncrove the existing
Management Information System (MIS) HSealth Inforrra-
tion   System  (HIS)  of  NMEP   by   incormorating
Geogra-hical Infcrmation System (GIS)  so That  the
high  risk- and  notential epidemic  areas  czn  be
identified enabling ITMIEP to select apropriate
insecticide based on efficacy, cost ana e-isting
vector   resistance   status   and   to    c?:imise
insecticide usage by increasing NUCN ap21ic-=:ion and
reducing IRS.
9.2.8  Since  the  insecticide  usage is  proos^-_  to  be
curtailed Zy intensifying the use of t-;CJ innolving
impregnaticn  with synthetic pyrethroids, thr e  4S
an  urgent  need -for conducing  IEC                atcgraw..e   at
local  level to facilitate safe and cDpir'm use  o
insecticides.
9.2.9  The  NNEP  needs  to -re-are  plans  to  reduce  or
terminate insecticide s-raying when AI drc-s b-lo;
a cut-oLf  av-l  as deter-mined by the  fNE! :rom its
eas - exoer _r ce.
9.2.10  Under MPO, 72 Entomological zones were  established
:-n  India covering 16 endemic states and cne  Un-on
Territory  to mcnitor entomological data  n-cl uc ing
the  suscectibility  status. As Der  the  ,-EO  te
results,  below 0101 morhL.ity is considerea  to  Lie
resistant.   Acmearance  otf  resistance  s:c_'  be
placed  in  ce~rs-ective  in  each  oarticular  eco-
enidemioloc=cal s4 tuaticn.
9.2.11  The-  t'e-?  eveloodt. aZ detailed plan cf  E. c::    to
the Directora-.- e c- '.;;-a.
9.2.12  There r     -- s     ^_ c o2cumnan-ation cr  invz_tCr'
C f    4    us',-- ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 4
o:)  .nustr-  l ci   ;:ns' :-,es  in.cluo_i.=  .£_a-:-._c.
;-:astes  2e-._to. :ro:a  insecCicide  menu  _tr:7>3
irc1ustrie=s.  Such1 Tivantor  an-f documenraoetin  mct
be   u           b,^5D T   y   eac h_  indust'st.    -L. in`
/ .,



consultation tiithl the CPCB, should initiate  acticn
in this regard.
9g 3  Long Tor !:  zn>>d_crti1:!.
9.3.1    The   N!7E-    shculcd   ini tiate    and    ccnti nue
en_-Wvro .-inta1 monitoring programmzie at places  where
IRS and antilaval activities operate
9.3.2    N.E  should initiate and continue organisation  cF
tho   intersectoral  WorkshoD  as  detailed   under
section 3.5.2
g.3.3    twiE? should initiate modify from time to time        s
and  continue gene-ating scenario with the helD  oc
GIS enabling NMEP t ) select apDropriate insectiQio
based   on  cost,  efficacy  and  existing   vector
resistance   status   as  well   aS   to   optimise
insecticide usage by increasing IND1 application and
reducing IRS.



,--W= c ; =  z
- (1S)I   .aa i-  Action  ?ro^2ramre-  based  orn
C'-~z  2o'r0-l- . PL2lbishedf byl t-he Ditectorate of C.,
22- Sham       V,tn .ar9g, Deli, 1-_ 050.
2.   SincL,  C- .P, Chitkara, S., Kalra, N. L., Makepur,            a .B   and
-   INaraslmham, t-i.V.V.L. (1990).  Develooment of Methodol^*-  for
M1alariOgenic  Stratificatio. as a tool for M4alaria  control.
.J. Ccinmmun ic . Di s., 2 2 : ii
3.   rE p  (1995) Eoidemiology and control of Malaria  in  Irnda.
Published by the Ditectorate of PiMEP, 22-Sham Nath %:arg,
Delh-4-110 054
4.  NTE    (1995).   Operaticnal  Ma2nual  for   Malaria   ACtion
Prcra.mme.    Published by the Directorate of  Z-',P  22-Sham
Nath Marg, Delli-110 054
5.   WHO  (1994) WHO Recom=ended Classification of Pesticidss  by
-Hazard and Guidelines to Classification 1994-95  H.O/FCS/1'4.2
6.   Sharmna,  G. K.   (1987).  Ma,a12ria and its  control  in  Tn
Published  by  the Directorate of N. P, 22-Sham  Tath  Drarg,
Delhi-110 054
7.   WHrO0 (1i96) . Resistance of Vectors and Reservoirs of Disease
to Pesticides. Tr,7tO. Tech. Res. Ser   737
8.   Sha=:,a, V.P., Uprety, H.C., 17canda, N., Raina, V.'.,  Panda,
S.K.  andC Gupta, V.K. (1932).  7m.oact of  DDT  sprav-nq  Cn
Malaria Transmission in Hazvana villaecrs with DDT  LeSs:n
A_nr2Ie7-es culiiciffacies. In ian J. K,i'ajriol., 19 : 5
9.   Dua, V.X., Pant, C.S. and Sharma, V.P. (1996)  Detei_.na ton
of levels of HCH and DDT in soil, water a nd w.hole blood from,
bioenvironm2ntal  and insectiC no sprayed areas  of  tKalani-
Control.  indian. j. MIalaiclogy, 33, 7-15.
10.  Battu,  R.S.  Singh,  R.P., jola, and  Kalra,  FZ. L.  (1920).
Contam, i nation of bovi ne milk frcm indoor use of 7DT    C zG. in
m-alaria  control progra=-nes. Sci. Tota>. Environ. 86
237.
1b1.  Th,  -_sFic- Industry (1S,_)  rc,_th_ /'S Des";  Eco, SeriCoc,
12.  :         on the use of ---.4cids :n the Asia-PeciLfic -i--
(-937) Asian- Develozment  ank.
13.  Techno-7:2-;     Survey   on   Technolcoy  Co    ?utur:st-c
?--s-iti_s.      Technolcoy     Torntfv.aticn,   fo-ecastΩc-    C.-
-'Ie5smen: Council.   (T iL,C) . DeoD. OLf science & Tech nolo, ,
-ev Delh;i, 1-992.
* ~~75 



1J.  Dogra  D. (1992).  TI 2 De:bnae on Large Dams.   Published  by
7,harat Dogra, New; De.;-i-.
15.  CoinCls/47/1993-94.  WNastewater  1lanagement  in   Pesticides
Industry, Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi.
16.  Lines, J.D. (1995) Technical issues raised by the question
Ho.,jever  bednet   impregination  be  made  widely  available.
(Review 1) London school of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK.
17.  Vector  Resistaince to Pesticides (1992) Fifteenth Report  of
the WHzo Expr.t Committee on Vector Biology and Control.  WHO
Technical }- ;ort Series 818.
7 ,



MNALARIA' CONTAROL P.sOJECT FOP WORLD T',.:      C
National  .alaria Eradication Programme (NMEP) under the
Directorate  of  Direztor General lHealth Services (ofiS)  o   th e
Ministry of IIealth (XO.:), Govern rent of Incdia(GOI), is .he  n.oar, l
agency  in the country  for mcai,ng policies and  civir.  tech.nical
advice to the States for malaria control and implez.ent -^icn.
NNEP  is intensifying antimalar.ial  act i' Iies  througih
out the country with szeciaal emphasis on the ';ribal ::zulation in
the  seven  states  fcf penr.insular India  namely  i;-.-,- 3 radesh,
2')    tBihar, Gujarat, Hadhya Pradesh, Xaharashtra, o-is_a and Rajasthan
which  are highly endemic for malaria.  Malaria  Cc;nzrlo PEroject
which  will  include the above and also other hwcn  rws>:  malaria
endemic  areas  in the country.  The whole Project is to  be  fi-
nanced by World Bank.
For  malaria  control  various  stratec es  like  earlv
dia;ncsi-s  and prompt treat=ent (EDPT) of a malarza casc,  veccor
control strategies - use of irnsecticides, larvi_l os z.  biocides
can  be undertaken.  NXj-P has been using insec'c-itc_s  li:%--2  D ?,
HIC andi malathion for killing adult mosquitoes.  La'rv cces Cs i;e
abate, and fenthion have also been extensively usia '  the  Urbanr,
1lalaria Schemne (U.iS) of NMEP.  Presently, the vector I-as  started
showing  resistance to these conventional insectIcies  arnd  2!!-' E
has already identifiedl areas twheicre such resistance -s cocuMented.
In  such areas, newer insecticides like synthetic  pyrez_roids  -
d delta ame thrin  or others are contemplated to be used.   Similar1ly,
NMIEP,  for  larval control wants to use  biocides.   _X:7e ircntaI
studies  have  well p.oven the efficacy of  above  cor-pounds  b u
their effect on enviro-ment has to be studied in >.2'i.
.E ^>j,e~ct i yen
NME!P  will be launch ing  ALAR\IA CONTROL  .-."C-   wi.-r.
10orld Bzank Financing by the end of 19∞5.  Before _:   C  o5-c  c_:
bc  run  !tFvironm2t<n1            t  is nreconditicn  t_      e  '.o-r.
m       ,an'.   E.nvironmnentai  i-.ss ss;.ent will be carrioc.  e     .!it:
ftol lofing objectives:
-1)  Determination  o.f the possible in. ^   s c  th i*      :
of  thze  insecticides  in the X-elQria Control   C'7  .-.2  C    :.
-      env-onmment Insecticit es in .-C? I", 11 e useb          ._ 
-  pr53'-. 'ing but there are vosi 1_li1i5 of Spl  a%:                  :
r;ent.  The ways by whici thc insecticOidc s ma; cn,-^ Z    *      <-;
T-     mor.nt and  tthe  methoo_logies to check these  s'.              c  L>: -
Lroucht out.
--I
_                  -             ~~~~~~~~~~~77 



:P )   {;uT;t1(3<-e;= fez-:>     , low4 COf;t neCtlods which can, be
i nt:2 od uc C I to 10 CrC-oa;(! tl' :'10;(,u i t0) (eni Ccon" it OnS ( o0lIer  than
1 nzectic 1(ie8;/?-:'icid^s )  e.g. environmental mar,agemerit,  tc.  A
comparative ar.é!ySis uon tthe vriou:; methods being used for -alor-
ia con*r--ol shold      i:sscd.
3)   .∂ahe  *e.nvironmer>nal  ,monitoring  plan  during  the
jmolcnt. tio 1 of the project( which may be of 6-7 years)  within
the       se.tup. Suggest the training or methodologies which  will
enhanlce thle capability of  NMEP to carry out EA in the long run.
' course  ct!rriculum twill have to beL developed for this.
4)  collect baseline data of the  environmental  condi-
.icns which 'elp in achieving the above objectives.
5)       Suggest the role of community persons or groups
in envirconmcntal assessment.
-,   ';.. ..- v,, ,
The prooosed                   ASn,ironmonta Q Asscamena  is to be carried
Cut  In such a manner that it sets examples of  conditions  wherc
.t'h   methodS  of mz-a1 i   control can   be  im. le;mentId. In  other
!.:c fS the study t-will hove a broad base and not confined to  some
*. .    rC r.t
A report of t' 2 environnental asscss.ent to be  submmit-
ted within t.iree monhs of the signing of the contract.
5.CcnzQ31aTeJ       mnaS
TheC team. sh9ould inlclu>de a Nalariolcgist/Esntomologist



CFTIS  P-UC U JI.I N G A   L      zp.i Z..L) ur;n
r..Al nR,A SKt E,IE
' SL Q.            O of          Pc,pulation 'H
I|          trP2 Tow               (in lTohs) j
]  1.    Dei,8i &5.00
2.       Mad, as                   3a.75
3.       Calcutta                  4 1 . 43
4.       Com,ay                   105.0 3
5.       Hyderabad                 15.00
6.       Bar.nalore                36.60
s?             ,  ~~~ ~~~~7.  Ahrmedabad              32.00
_3             1  ~~~ ~~~~8.  R h o Pa                  9.23
9        JaipUr                    101 O.O(5
10.      Lucknow                   11.50
1 1.     Ch:r Idigarh               6.40
12.      V2C cara                   4.11
13.      Visak h3p 1at3rlT          3.64
14 l.    Vip3y.awad                 5.43
15.      Kan,pUK                   1 8.50
1 {         Total Population          423.90
-_S
--.



TiOWNS/CITIES  UiNCDER  URDAN  MALARIA
SCHE M. iE SH0WYING MO.RE THA   10O0/ SPR DURING
Q ,,)                     1S91-93 REQUIR111"G ACCELERATED UMS
Sl.No.   NamrTo of              Population
the Town                (in lakhs)
1.     Chaibasa (8ihar)              1.00
2.      tharuch (Gujarat)             1.12
3.      Dohad (Gujarat)              0.56
4.      Godhra (Gujarat)              1.00
5.     Jodhpur (Rajasthan)           5.06
-,    6.  Briaratpur (Rajaschan)     2.05
7.      Bellary (Karnataka)          2.01
8.      Tuticorin (T.N)              0.27
;.  _  O     Erode (T.N)                   1.73
A* _'                            10.    Dindigai (T.N)                 1.19
- .  - *                        11.    Rourkela (Orissa)             4.18
12.    Sarnbalpur (Orissa)           1.80
;  -.  .:                    * -fl2b R3         Ut]  Ab        
13     Nha(PUIJab)                   0.49
1. 14  DimTpur (Nagaland)            0.60
.'                      _{           Total Population             23.06
-s                                                   _ _.        _
.h



n n e;: -4
IV'SO>.'x.   Pi''O iECFICON  Ni IETIODS
Q.)jaliry of B3ccUr!t'
ITlihc standird  bcdnrcr hieoc sIzc should   nor bc bLigcr
.,  rI   1.2 to 1.5 rnrn dianicccr i.c. 6 to     hoilcs to  10 mm.
hltncar lcengthi. Nylon r.cts arc prcfcircd ovcr cotron  ncts bc-
causC tde fornmcr arc morc durablc, quickcr in drying irccr
wilmrcgnation  and  thc insecticidc sTays loniger on  thc sur-
-3                        tIcc of tlhc nyion f;1brc.
Dosagc:
The  dosagc  is 25  tlg   per sq.  nctrc  in  rcspcct of
Dcltaiictlirin  2nd  Lrnzbdacvlialothrin  and  50  mg  pcr sq.
rnctrc for Cyflutlhrin. Tlhus I glim  of Dlrmcrithrin  (2.5%)
or  0.5   gmn    of  Cyfiuthirin   (10%)  or  0.25   grn   of
L.mbditylhllothrin (0'.) is nccddd pcr sq. mctrc.
MIctlhodology
i).Thc surfacc ,rca of tiliC bcdnt can  bc dctermnincd
bV 1eCAsuri-ng arca of cach ofi ic fh Mir si(dcs asid top.
2(crgtrh-brc;Idthi)   heili * (lic', ltth. b rat)   tot.ij arca
l). 'I'lic warcr absorbing cip.tciry  of tlhc nict is to bc
c.doulatcd  by tridl and crror. Thc absorptiorl capacity' dif-
ters tor (ifleCrct  makcs of  iatcrial.  'limc optimurn quantiry
D                        a0  wvatcr rceluirdcd  for unpgnllarc     10t1l is to hc rIctc rnncd.
I ang miioist iect for dr-Ing in sh:idc and  thlcrc shall not bc
zTaS ii 'rippint¢ g of wltcr.
Rc-sidul::  EFm_ erI
3\%lhcn not wi ashcG', thc inlulIrc,vtcd ntCt wl hlavc cfEl-
toez Cy   r six Ilioldl ;. If w'uashcd, tl e:u 1rct; nat mon  muay  havc
(o  be  d1)ll   a Ire ,.
I'rcc cauti on s:
). IThc pcrson  iinprzgnarmg    ic n           ,t  wJ' , weacr nlb)-
bcr glovcs.
ii). i Ic should  :void  con ca r          tilion  of sh:iry, cycs,
Wouth, ctc. with i   sce:; 'z furmlnutiun.
iiI). If contaminated, wash with shv .anl Lter in theC
Sufrgconts fash-iorn.



1 Abuhr SummaSry of PiCr3onl2 P'rOtcc11n  "Ac.-surCA
r       C \ixcihot Sut'bk   FOr scr
.nfn Uf                          madt nA)i(pmt) pmvi>f by sr-c,"'ng
xv lun                  ~~~~~~u) A1ln-,cr-!Kno(h,iusch,lJltl:    !ocCI-
wd J   ncc the y 2rr itis5icthch'i
III) Colbicr3l bcncfis suth is pnhrcc-,l)n
(Mtlnra} (V.&r tccts.
i,') A crvo". can p,crform nrminsl housc.
.     hodt, w(ivity tniA !  thkl hsoc w -sltiu
v3 l}.e mc:hnd is costly to insrth hut
Usually   Vt-!y   little   tccu:  tfn
c2 - x rej s tirc
vn) Nor cfT`cti'c if the (bmtly  ncmrtncr
,icep OUtd4oors
2   S1ccpin, un-   Utc b7 an ind;-  s) Suittbc for usc by :n   dividui
-Cr M.uu%uLto  vYldlSalot         u) l hCcTC  /-nrcss 3peUtv%:Uan   vitflt
nwe - plisn     ben  of f1mily        trosquitc)sc  pirenJd on slceprI tim. :
/trnpr-gnstcd   shil.- sIcp in      ) Can bc us.cd   d0r or outdc,Io  wilh
-,ih            :n&        orf OUS-   citusl cTcct1vCncs.
tlCcct r  -:                     irv) Nori*'crycosv.ly
v) An  ir.dsv:tuil rernzins C:LXs%Cd  tt
sA"J0t    ^r  afit.r iJusk t.iU ka  tc
to.l t,
vs) Nc orhcr c  lsr:r.l bznc(t.
*  .1(nullu         j't uxc b!  .n-  1)  Suit;blc fur u1c by an IndiiduAl.
pc;lknzt        .livalulunng  u) Aci:ln lsnr fora shon tionx m           cFt
rCI tn.        j)umey.  C  n         2ppljC12ion  It requircd  dunnz  the
bc uscJ in the        r.n'ht.
cvening bcfor   iii) Sorc indsvtdulua  may cxpcnencc ad-
Occeping und&r        vc r, mrrt:on du; u, .nn s.ssit.vity.
the  Mosquito  iv) Ra2tc of 3cccptTnccia low bcc:usc rr.
b<dnet.               pe rtcd 3TpicjtionS3mrrqu1r-edevcr7
v)  Some individuzls do not like greasy
m2tc n:l an thets tkin.
4   lmpre tc Pid   for o   use  by  s)  ,Mokt ctitct1ic in confined skecpng
*UL        Individjull or a      area.
I-clkcts        gro  orfpof pco-  u)  Efficacy  's avrcldy ( { cttTlrd  by
pic  slepring         direct aircurrtnt.
im3oors.          iii) If useJd in aU roors of the house from
dusl onarms, usual houscholW  Jctiv-
Sty c3n b  csnTicd out by family mem-
ten with vecry l:tlc c'ipnure to "nWs-
'UIto l.I;tem.
rv ) t   )y t e,nTCrs (ilnll orc pnStuct to
'rUiCtr I    tll   tinta d  tUy%,,);(N
)ern *itiliy
1%31 val>xUr uscttsl II  , (In .   e... ,Fl,



Clcnc1ficnion of Paticidcz by Hzz-rd
Clacs                    LD 50 for the rate (rg/lkg body weight)
oral                    Der='l
Solida       Liquidn       Solids       Liquid:
l.a  Extremely hazardous       5 or less   20 or lena   10 or less  40 or lens
2.a  Highly hazardous          5-50          20-200        10-100       40-400
3.a  Mederately hazardous   50-500         200-200       100-1000    400-4000
4.a  Slightly hazardous   over-SOO        over-2000    over-1000   over-4000
' 33



Cl:accL' ,Icationo'  n.c  cde:LridcU-d    t??
by lIa:.rd  ;ictivo Ingrodi.nt.
C1azo                 N1me o' the Incecticid/                    foD50 fr RaLS
Larvicida                          md/kg body waight
la    Extremely HiazardouO       Nil
Ib.   Highly Ha:ardouo           i     Fention-Lar-vicide (LJ               271    f
II    moderately Hazardous    i.    Lambolacylialochrin  (51                56
ii.   Lindane  (S)                        88
iii.  IC;  0S 0o
iv.   DDT (S)                             113
v.    De2tamcthrin  (S)                  lS
vi.  Cyfluthrin  (S)                      250
vii.  Fenitrothion (L)                    503
.:I1  SAightly Hazardous         i.    Pirimiphos-monrchly  (L)            2016
ii.  M.alathion (L)                       2100
-:'.   Unlikely to present       1.    Temephos-Lar-vicide  (L)            6600
A t e Vfaz -ai in
!:^-,: x^:.1  __t-~~



Clansifiction of InGecticidoa/L.Xvicid6e  ucod in
NW!ZP by ll:.=rd  Form=ulation
(LD50 valuo calcul-tcd ac pzr V.-HO mothod)
Cl-ca               2Na.ae of tho Inuacticide/       LD50 for Rats
Larvicide                      zad/kg body w'ight
Ia.  Extremely Hazardous    ii
lb.  Highly Hazardous         i.   Fenthion -82.5s    (L)            32L
II.  ModeraCely Hazardous   i.   HCH-S0t (S)                         200
ii.  DDT-50% (S)                      226
Ill. Slightly Hazardous       i.   Lambolacyhalothrin lO(S)         560
ii.  Fenitrothion-40t (S)             1,258
iii. Lindan-6.5%  (S)                 1,354
IV.  Unlikely to present    i.   Cyfluthrin- lOt (S)                 2,500
Acute Hazard in          ii.  Pirimiphos-methyl-25% (S)        8,072
Normal Use               iii. Deltamethrin-2.5t (S)            5,400
iv.  Malathion-25t (S)                S,400
V.   Temephos-S0% (L)                 17,200
Not.   (1) The use of paris green discontimed since over a decade
(2) LDSO values for oral route are given for all compounds exceot for
Fenthion   for which dermal toxicity is given
(3) S-Solid ; L - Liquid
35



Airlricx -6t,
I'lSE-CTiC-;DAL  FCRMMULATiON S  AlJD   THEIR   COSACES
FCO INDOOR RESIDUAL SPIlAY
[ S tts~~~~ke st dwhC;dc4    Plweta8 ClW |3 uon2 pot   Owt-aeM tQo *) Po(  PCUi/t'Jtl15  tOC  1`?u_rv%    rrn..... ..t,!,A   . ig  kOt1 0:I
I .  e ´u l n s  q. r4(rto    tod in  spray               Po:>vlalion            by 10 l4 d uwpfcr
Ps:.LwZ onW    c AiVpa .     w s    fouui tno.c9       f l  unr                    ) get corn-O dorrn.>o
rkv; a      _i __      parf annurn
1~~~~~~~~~~g  11 .                                                           75 MI 4 a        J
F    gtI(:5cn2%wp        2 S kg/wl0L                  8 -          3            Z 2                          sco      m
3.    ^ b,25% W *                  2 kg I I O Lit    2 gm       a * a        3            OCO MT r    90 )Lr           2 So aq. mn
4.   3c~Camerh,n2S%-p            400gm/10tA         2 a       101- 2         2             30 MT      Go Mt             SCO Nm
S.   C#lu        Pw              125 gm I tA        25 rnJ    tO* 12        2           9 3  MT      la 75 MT         500 a.q m
t.   lLmwJyrLo",-n 10%wp   125gm/1OLd               25 mg     10 - 12        2           9 3s MT      18 7 S ll        500 s..m
7.   Fen,ic'-                    I 2% p  1  2g OLi(  I gmn      6 * .        3          g3.75 MT      258 2S UT         500 sq m
c.              r_;y25% wp          2 kg I tO Lil    2 gm       6 - t        3            300 LIT     000 41' 250 sq.m
'To oe    .;yed in Iwo coats i.e. altor comploting tho first coat in all tho rooms. tih  socond  coat may bc givon  so
that tho eoquirod dose o0 2 gni/sq. m. is obtained.



IN-C CT:C;OAL    roPt.'JL ATIOU14     A';D   T                      Dl'   SAC £- 
FCF, SPACE SPRlAY
j   7"('tt,M  ralfaCt       2 0%    liact                  1  19 I a  I plet CJ "       Fl, prnp oe hzr'           Lscd IoY rdc-oe
pyiutyrum e*teact WI 17       OperVled loCa^'.ng         spaco  sp.ay
.IpJCsoJ Kcroseno            (mcroci      xgc)
L", !11*0i'                 T c c r'xtc.jl M.2laMora      S piar'.sc  Tech M.3!        VojtcNmCw-.Lax              OuJo>r mv  td ro
1 9S p4rs a   ol 0dod4 CJ   tI,linal lo'77tvn            waich loe .,rl cr-.C .Yas
( rAr }               ma~~~rtac.ro               bc ore fo, ; .ry
S*oed cl ve?cle 6
IkmaaA or ts  eeomrn-
<,rdod bey rruchino
minulaclulcws
1g r          . c 2S p :           cnot(CI r     co         O  a'O c htf      ot Mr"L216 posrave CA30s In Lo  pa IL 0ne JtrO c 2'.  yIctrhrU    Orl
,-o  W-n 19 Wte&Os c. tol-c. o -. 'L  suf4Ucto &o  "pray &Lo0(  400 hYouSOl"!. oach liousotwa4 having 10 c u< rnowics aus oir S,4Co
. o  CrlarJ Cr_sc 1   SOtV o!Cr k'S Irn arKJ 410wfV  "Ovy miL.     pOSAIaO tWu1oh<.0 J)
:_C..



Anmie:- Pi
L,'W,"-!<C!DAL FOrM'XUATIOC,S ANJD THEIB DOSAGEtS
|                         c [  tvInvsc!      Co-  r zJ nd                      __t_CA  .__ 1  Fiequaciy ol 1(u                          t      q,,,-" -
I,) LYO! Larrl.,nu                          roady o0 sp4Ay      0(o sq             SO            LAi                                             I
j  _____________  __                       tC .; W           rTS!O a       L     r ict tre, I  I  (o<S re
11   2             3                   4                5                3            7              2           ______4_ 10
LI L 1 0            IQ:CS.pozo.        As        d        . 20 c.C       I Lr-      2^C0Lr. LY                          Krt    .              IWrwOlaJ to D .    AIb
L~uvrflpI<CuCt Hand CC^o                                                                                                  aicnc*    LtO &Crs 7
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W sra^cfar#'                                                                     of -W1<ar Do           !
|2.   Pvts               P o ,.Oa i         I   !crJl    t            .10 CM  SC 0 cr100  g,^ t                Go- <-        Hlnd oI Pk-,Ad.              00
| iQen                        l~~~~~~~o S2, tgr otfDwas C,,113                                                                       Cin b4 JpODrcl to 
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I <stoust                                                                                                           -jrst cor s.n'W  Cry
l                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.1140 *C
2    T,moneoCs           0'. ( C            2 5 C C 4n          20 C C        1 Ld,.             20 o    0 LaIn3 conxur%s                          :.In C. J:cl'eC 4n
(ß   :}                   j ~~~~~~Wsas Ooi olawv                                                                                    o- vn-4
.        aI4 i*                                                                   0'S
S    10 o  I                                                T Nj e               ,-f  I C.
_ r!o  IozL                                                                                            IC( Ccs%cf%A      ;!
;                 I                    LSI.3: C'DO:G    |I                                               WVP253 .n    10  -W,   T -OC*X                              I
Ls3at 
l    l       :                  $wal<a~~..ir(2  S
I        L.j,*j                                    cc I  .    4   I               C-0 LI      w!                        ..   no 1~   ,- 'no    t
Ir-., vr-  (.' yr.,;V vs  01        0o1I:1,.  b.   4u.,Liod 1 lr,plicJ In c.sao ut .alur    r4-.J.) nwof, Ih.sa !0 cm rC ;.!n



A ra rQ X 
. c< cw  .       2;- vecxdso   comrof
! i2C Study Group considcrcd the currernt sluitaoii rc-;irding ilc u\c ut
DOT for controlling vcctor-bornc diseases, in panicular nizlarir, in ilac
light of tvwo recent publications suggcsting an association  -- uwen DDT
End hurnnn canccrs (1, 2),'a reocrt on the prcscnce of DDT in brcast nila;k
(3). and two g;neral reviews of the subject.' Two cxpcrl toxicologists
x~c  invited to rcview  thcsc papers, including the citations. and to
pa:ricipa:  in ile discussions on DDT.
Aftcr carful review of the documents and intcnsive discussion. the Study
Group concludcd (hit:
1. Pth  information presented does not provide convinciing cvidenc: .4'
zdvcrsc cffccts of DDT  cxposurC as a result of ilidoor resiadl
spraying as carried out in malaria control activities.
2. Tnere is therefore, at this staoge, no justification on toxico!o uic:al tr
cpidcmiolozical grounds for chancing currcnt policy (J) tm\ard\
indoor spraying of DOT for vector-borne discasc control.
3. DDT may thercforc bc used for vector control. provided (h-  all lhe
followin- condi(ions are nict:
(a) it is used only for indoor spraying:
(b) it is effcctivc;
(c) the nmaterial is manufactured (o the speciricatioiis isucd hv .W i )
(5):
(d) the necccssary satcly prcciunionN arc tlaken in it.- 11C :nd  a1% .1i"l
4.  In eunsidering whethCer to U.e lA)Lr govers1im.icnI stlittld tkllc in'o
account the following additional factors:
(a) the costs involvcd in the usc of insccticidcs (DDT or alternativc.);
(b) thc role of insecticidcs in foCal or selcctivc vector cMntrol. Ji
specified in the Global Malaria Control Strategy (6. 7);
(c) the avalilability of altcniativc vcctor control methods. inclu!n
altcenatiYe insecticides (iM view of thc availability of jlei-cfIti.V
insecticidcs for indoor residual spraying. somile of whlic.h n.lva
comipctc with DDT in tcrms of epidenmiological imi:pact. piulic
acceptability. logistic suiltabilitv and compliance wuith s?cO-
flicaions issucd by WIIO. DDT no longcr nicrits  dInt con-
sidcrcd the only insccticidc of choicc);
Prcgrcc ty Dy C.F. Cvnis. Devvir*a oa Md.c.2 Parasitoo)y. Looon S;'t` c. y, .'c'
c. .a T.r !,^H^   Lcrt-Cn. EfnOXr4. ,.  ProJet.-or J. .c   rwt    n  n  slt4t:0 lk'
'Cr W' 9YN          Pc<,t,s' 0-j:du!i. Kgi, Woriflt. "M.n a. A   ~nfdEPl!o.  >
(Con!d. .)



Cd) c0'C ..l!pi rc ticn'fl.  .r inN.Cci'(C icjd  rc  ~~!nct^  JIc! ud rig   rv,.ewl
c:c!:-rzsi<ntzrc  to sorc !(crn::ivc zin.e:cridiJ_;
(C)   Z  ;ch=-.ing,  ZuuLlC aitudc to  UNc             . iell dc!iirlg puhlic
5. C.:'! C.     cpii. :                       f       f ns
- s,,.-.-i,g,  ru.-Icr  COidcmioC'Oga!  in;Cstig:;fi  USr- n   gi nriu."
rcrc. tii;c m-otucc.s is to ', cnccuragcd.
6.  u:         e ^   sdics S:11ulId also bc c=ricd C,t -
(a) cxa.ino atlh. hczalh  fcc.cs of DCDT in brzsz mlk on brcxst-fcd
nhnI s, rtcs !    any rcsulting Saviouraf Chano-
(b) inve  i5a ic thorou,h!y -ny suspcctcd    z:tzor; LcC"wccn the usc
c  CDT ;n rci ticc  malaria control zc:ivitics and an incrcaced
nCiC d C -C   C I" C ri(CCs):
(c) c!zrify 0bc sE5nificzrcc of ;zhc rcduc.on in  nu-sc-rinic rcccp(rr
dens-ilty cau:ccd by DDT.
Re4 erenc -z
1. Czr.-'.r: Z-rz   e -;. M7 : n-' r'ec  Cnccfh -s :rd r,id    Cl _ra 'e;>c ci
Jr^ c! thet-.^> Gn    !--sJ .s:iture. IC92. 84. 764-771
2.  '_ 2.S' --: 2. -'-cd c1 tas C! Cryznochlo:re       zms d and rlse Of tLe.l czc.c-f
JcLr.~-^ rIc: Na!.y-  Cznce-r frstimurf. 1993. S5: 648-C52
3  Bouwvrr-n H et z1.  .cls  OT t r) and mrrtic  la s ic   t re3st rm:nk trcwil Kv i-7,lij
moiehors atier DOT apn4kc;cwon for ma1aria cen'ra. ELUI;eJzd ol (I e v:'cfI r ,
99.'fl',one. 1S90.63: 761-7G8
4. The ptzéce of DOT in ocefats a9gailot nIarL3 M'4 olt'1 vecIor- xr'ne C00n JSe:'
in: £ccutnvo&ard Fcary-5cmirt) Scssmno. &         9>a.  9-29Januciv 197; P.?,7 I
Pceocrf c.'7 tt,e pro,osc-, prc-ammie and tvC.'er efrTnacs fr 1972. Gcer'va
World f eammi C0.g;rw3itcn. 1 9 7  (Oft'cial PReCuxCd Cf .Ce 'WA'orl HeiIiti
Ofgaritzron. No, 1S0): 176-182.
5.              'ofdc,t:s for p&.:^-ces uecjd wi pu'tc thC3cii  - os'cr.cs:es D  r GLe ic.1
V.&s',d teallnl O9Znhzatton (urp(xulivid documnt Vl-WOICTO V"HOPES-"3.
avaa'L'2 4cn r7Ljet Ir-i t3 DGviscn of Conliol of Trop3l Cs0s. WHO.
i 21 1 Geeva 27. S zftat-an).
G  A 6A .'a! s.tra      fct naf-trL  CCCtcI. Geneva. '.WVod He.lth Org3nzaion 1 993
7. hnp'. cnr.r cHr.e   L'.tlAfaIaroa Corolac S!ratecyv. P.2or) o! a WHO Saucv
G1cvp cn rhie '-r.p>;XrGra v   mc  C,-gaOCz1x PLn o1 (CtcN  Tor AtJan3 cn:rc/
1993-2iXO. G.svz3. Wcrt   HoaI4 t C42;h ganization. 1993 CA'HO0 Tcctrrcl Rc't,t



:4A;^Ut CT  U1".S OF ,CH'N3Z._'O  GR-ADE PESTIC;DES IN TIIE ORGANISED S CTC.
5 0.  i1"'luict              Nainz of the inatnufacturer  Installed Capacity
(tonnesI/A-numn)
I        2                          3                            4       5
*A  INSFCT1C1DZS
I   Acc;latc/Orthanc       1)  RalI.s India Ltd. Bombay        100    100
U)  Omecga Agro Industries
'2.  AII)I ;Iri                   Oh GOharda ClhcmcsiLs Ltd.
U)  lioccclic.t ltindLa Ltd.
:3.   1.1.C                 1)  !.zIdustan Insecticider Ltd. 3000  3000
A- wzyc. Kcrala
111)  Industan Organic Chemicats
Ma.nsayanl                  3000  3000
lII  3EL  Ltd.. CnIcutta         5200  5200
lv) I anonin Chcinicnt, Ltd.   16000 16000
P-cnukoot. U.P.
1)  MICD Farini CheicnnIens Ltd. 6000  6000
vt]  Tnta Chemlicn,i Ltd:
Muiethnpur                   7000   7000
-ttl Pc-%Ucldc3 & 11rcvwcrcs Ltd.
'3ombny                      1500   1500
vIl-' Soutlhertn 1c.tkcIdecs Ltd.    3300  3300
Kovtir.A. t.
Ix) Archiana Pc3tlcidic. ltd.
-     ~       I   C:nrbo Ftnrar -i ia!lls Indin Ltd. B3omnbay
ti  lIndu3tnii In.sect1cItdel Ltd.
till  Tioritan iidDe trhe.0 Ltd.
9                                  to^~~~~~~~ Dcilhl              400



3  4   5      (3    7
Cu T 11yrIpilcz      1)   Motill PcatIcidcz              100
U)  GuuJnr-t riacctlc! -: Ltd.       20-0
(. u t;.Or1               IJ   Uniion CnrbIdf- 1. .. Shop3l 5000   5000
U)  Paushnk Ltd.. E3aroda          2000   2C00  1600
1)z.IzIL1)3               IJ   Sudarshan ChcrrJcnLs
Industrics Ltd.. Rohn           250
UI)  Mot'lal COranic Phosphatic   3C00
In.icctlcldc.3 Matliura
UW   Volrlio Ltd. tMcdak
Iv)  Indian Dycstut   Ltd.                          200
DIC1LIOLVOs ]ID[)VP)      1) Hilrdustan Clba Gcioi Ltd.
Oc-a                            476    476
11)  Sudarshan Cherncla1b Ltd.    50          50
Ro1la
111)  lUkatau Junkar Ltd.                              -   50
As ikIezlhwar
lv)  Ncw ClicS3i Industritc- Ltd.                  -      100
o3011bay
[ u r                     1)  itisidustani lIrscctlcldc3 Ltd:
DeUlI                         2744  2744
U)  H-lndu3ta;; 1ns3cticidce Ltd: 1344  1344
A1%4yc
UIJ)  flidua(nn lnncctlcidc, Ltd: 5000   5000
Parivcl Monhrashtra
I'  UIMct]W.cItr               I)   Ralll3 India Ltd. Thanic       1297   1297
UII  Sliaw 'alaUucc Ltd: HaIdLa      331    331
Lll)  PNM Co. ErodC ThrtnlU Nadu        *                 3G0
Iv)   tIOCD Farmn ClcinicaL3 Ltd:           o100          20
,Mnttur Dari. Tnaw'  Nadu
vl   Khtatau Juulkcr Ltd:                    300       - 3,0
v')  5lh1vc!.!1,  "c;ny i. Dchradurl 300    3 00



4       '
-                      ~-~                                4 
I E n Q.s% trn                 I) II  -du_^ln InsecIcldcn Ltd. 1600   1600
Lll  Z. cci Industrlc  Ltd.
.3 -  '--Om  y                1200   1200
LIU  Sh-nrzt PulvcnsLigt MULb.
Ltd. Bo3nbay                  1200   1200
12. Ethilomm                   1)   Shavw WWalacc Ltd.. Haldla    146    146
-i] -t' 11)Incs;2      17dia Udalptur  50     50
--II Ull   a!L  IndLa Ctd. Bomxibay   50      50
iv?  VoWi-o Ltd.. Medsk                 -   450
13  Fczxltrotlhiosi            I)  BtSyecr IndLa Ltd. Tlhane       500    500
11)   zULs Ind-a Ltd.. Tliane       389       89
lli)  C,narmaldh Iidla Ltd.. Bulsar 300
Iv)  Sixaw Wallace Ltd. HaldLa      300
v)  Ctujarat Agro lIid. Corpn.
v Q  Uzitccd Phosphorous Ltd. Vapi   -
1 4  Fcrxtlilorx              ii   Baycr India Ltd. Bomnbay        200    200
15  Lind;ricu                 li   MICID Farin Clicimlncals Ltd.   100    200
-Mattur Darn. Tanill Nadu
16  Malachlon                  11   Cyanarrnid Indla Ltd. BuL:sar 1400   1400
Il)  Pcstlclde5 & Brewara           300    ISo
LI_  1  E-ccl lndustrlc3 Ltd.       500    500
_                                            Ivl  Punjab UnItcd Pcsticsides    1-000   1000
vl  Pcs!IcIdcs India. Udalpur       300    300
vil)  HIndustan  i:msecticidc3 Ltd. 1800   1800
itasvani
v I ) IPrFCD. K1alol                500    500
-A                      .III) vltiJ at.nu Junker Ltd.                                   1000
,9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ '
_ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ i:z i



2                              3
LX)  FICOM OrgtJiIC L[td.                  l0
x)   U:;r n IrRanaytiu Ltd.         600     G60
Dchroduii 
xl)  PurlJ2b Unitcd Pc.stIcldc.-    500    500
,lt) Bl3xar liisccticidca Ltd. Pucica C00    900
x:lfJ MI.P. Unitcd ChcrnicalO      1000   1000
xJv] Volri3o Ltd. Mcdak             600   G00O
xvI ShIvaiIi Razaven Ltd.          1000   1000
17    Iecthyl flaraulilozi     1)   Bzy_r Itndia Ltd. Bonibay    17G0   1700
U)  RaULs izsdLa Ltd. Bombay         150    150
1!11  Dvcv Dayal (Salc3i Pvt. Ltd.   500
Panclhr.1lial
lvJ  Unitcd P1Iozpi:orouz Ltd. Vapl
vi   Gujarat Agra Indcltruic  Ltd..
vyi  5'z1'vaZ1 Ra3avmn Ltd..
vi l Volrhio Lld. McdaSk
Iv .S' N∂iootophol            ii 1Xl:ndustan Ciba-Gcic  Ltd.
IiooA                          G Oa                            866    8¢4
L)  Sudarslii:x Clicin. I1duotrics    -   400
LUI)  NOCIL. £iornbay              1250   1250
IvJ  Vnrdlati Ltd.. Blharuchi
vl  National l!1cctlcidcs nnld
CliezzUcal3                        -    120
vlJ)  h:idai Product3 Ltd. Cuddalorc  -   420
vtl) i{aau Jun-car Ltd. Ank!ic_wor  -   2 10
vlil) DliLsuit PulvcrLsn_g Mills.       -   500
lWx  S1,1 Pcoticldeo Pvt. Ltd. Mcdrk   -
xi  NewY Clhctezl Induatriec Ltd.       -
xi  Vntitecli Pcsticidce ltd            -   200
IZZascy;:lli
xil) lilOsltan Iinscclctidcs Ltd.
EU_'sayaui



n                     4                                ti 5~~C 
:  " ) t'o n:.rl I nductri:ei Ltd.
xlv) Svcd te':c:rcn, Pcndlchcrry
xv) LupL-i L.orctorfc-s Ltd.
->                                              ,.%li CuJarrt InrcctlUldcz Ltd.             1 40
.-;U) S.S. Rcddy. Karr.arajar Ot.
Tarn- Nrdu
19. Nlcothlic S%ilpllzte )   NICA Chcm.                         40     40
20. OxydcictonA MCthylI    11   Bayer Indla Ltd.                250    250
21. Phcn;]licztc            !)  BEh9rat Pulvcrlslng BEombay  600    600
[1)  FICOM Organice Ltd.
Ank1csliwar
U1) 1M1otlial O,gai:lephatic       300
I nscttcIdc. M1,lathura
IV)  Natlonal InlscctIcIdc3
. 2                                               vi)  Khatau Junksr Ltd. Anklcalwar
vt) Slri Pcsttcidca Ltd. Mcdak
22. Phozalonc                1)   Volrho Ltd.. Mcdak           1000   1000
IJ)  RaIl!., India Ltd.           200
23. Pliorate                1)   Cyanaj.-ld IndLa Ltd. BuSlsr  450    450
_  II  PcztIcIdc3 India Udalpur   600    600
11) Volrlro Ltd.. Mcink
-v)  Omcca Agro Ilndu3trcs
Amikicewar
v)  Slilvalk Ra3ayan. NMardol DLst.
24. Plomphrrnidon           11   HInduztan COba-Ccigy. Goa  922    922
U)  Sudarohan ChcMTcnl5 Ltd.   200    200
*j J                                    .      1I)  oatlonal !n2ecticdcs &-
Ch;lrical3 Ltd.



2
lv)  X'Jictiu Jurlk?.r Lt d.At:sWiI!
v)  Ncwv Cuicrni- Indu2trtc3 Ltd.
vl)  NOCIL. Loto Pnr-huram         500
vll) ?yrapurl ChcmJcoli               -
VWUl Lupln L-bcratorz= Ltd.           -
lx)  GujarQt lizcct!cldca Ltd.
An 12cawar
25  QulmdPlios               11   Sasidoz IndLa Ltd. Bomibay   736    73;6
Ui   SudQratiaSi CliUcatcl3. Rohl  300    300
.U1  United Phlcphorous Ltd. Vapt
Ivl  Gujarat tnsc_cticdc3 Ltd.
400
2u  Cypcrmcc(lrln            l1   NOCIL. Lo.to Para3hursrm      I00    100
111  EBlarat PuIvrcsLsLtng MW.ls Ltd. 100    100
Ul) IEL Ltd.. Ennore. Madraa       100    100
Iv)  Gujarat lsncctlcldca Ltd.      40     40
Bliarucli
vl  Volrlio Ltd. Mcdak
27  Dccaluictliril:               Pyrapurc Chetlcca13 Ltd.       20
72  Fciivakrrtc              l)  Scarl_ India Ltd. Bombay        150    150
L)  Unitcd Phlosphorouz. Vapl   150    o50
Ul)  Gujarat InzccZ!c!dc:z Ltd.   200    200
EB haruc h
lv)  PaUls Inidia Ltd. Dcrb'ssi    200    200
v)  Artab  PVA. Ltd.                20    2-0
vtI  Canw3hor 5- AUled ?.c-.ducts   150    150
'29                          il   Cyaiinaznd lndiz. Buissr       25



31. C0--rbrid ...m               1       Z n  )   E3AS';S 1dLa Ltd. B o:r.t.y  135  135
(lN')I DI CGuJarat l=zUcctlcfdc1d,                                200    200
-t                                                        Ai-i rtljcszwar
[U)  J1CBM. Bhnruc!                   300    300
Iv)  Pauchaic Ltd. Barocda
32. Cmptin/ca;pat.ol            I)   RaULIs IndLa Ltd.
-s,                      IDifolattDon)               L'1)  Sudar.-hzn Ch=rnJcal
r .                                            .          f;nduMrics Ltd. Func               75
33. Copper Sulphratc                  7rovancorc Chcmlcnl MFg.  300O   3000
Co. AIwavc
' - <.               34. Col)pr Cxyclalrldc            1)   Tata CliciivOcalz Ltd.          1500   1500
1J  Trzvancorc Chc:nica.' .fg.
Co. AIwavc                       960   1200
35. Dc-dliic                          IDL Agroclicnilcz13
.36   Guzatilnc                       IDL Agrochernica1l
* _
37   Kicazisi (mi3P              11   Pc-ticidc-. Indla Udatpur        200    200
11)   RailLU hid.a. Ankiczliwar
-3   3R~ .'\.t;I)-ci2c'1b        1'.  i,.nlicln Chlinilnl".! L(d.     2500   250U
,I)   NalIluial Rayoti Corpzi.       1000   1000
;2'$               393 .\.lcW1M aii So,dlium             IOL Ltd.. Calcutta                 25      25
2'        ;)0  Nickc1 Chliorldc                          Ollaral PulverLalng NM .ll%.
E3ozzlbay                        300    300
S.--
.-'
-_
V..v
,*M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 



1   2                               1                                  4       S
II   UlgI.klwo In)czcur:aI   1)  Lrxccl Illdu3trlco. L'uia'vty      22      22
N i 1, 4 M0   P N A)      U)  Unlilcd Pho)pltw'routt, Vapt       70      70
-"2. O.ilcztuoMiz              11: ui Iv-=cctlc!dca Ltd..          1500   1500
Ncw DCU;i
-33. Su1ur                     11   3ihart PuivcctIn      ' MULz Ltd. 1500   1500
tU3  ESc.1 lrdu-t1zW3 LAd. Bomiy -y
-'":. T'1iOplicalatc           I)   J M3M Ltd.. éOazaby
Mi etWlyl
45  TahIr.mm/ZLrail./          i)   5>ycr Indik  Ltd. Soi:nbay      100    100
~esrb2:;m                ;U)  IEl Ltd.. Ca1cuttz               300    300
-'  ;T:dmotDll                ,AS,- ndLz L;d. BcLrhn,y               50      50
47.       Cr                   I   C'o<D   ChJcts.cal Ltd.            50    50
U1   SudLr_1han ChllcrnJcal
Inductricc Ltd. Ratia            50      50
U)  Aiztr Dyc Clicmi. Ltd. LUrod        -       -
48  i3uta.chlor                ii   H-lzdu,tzn In ccticldcz Ltd. 1000
Ncv:r DcUx1
UJ)  Scar c India Ltd. Corbay.
Ut) Cac:zy0lhor & Afllcd Prcducts
Ltd. BarcUly                               -
Iv)  Punjin!b Aoro \W:cd'cldc   Ltd.    -
Seangrur- 
vJ   EIliarat PulvcrL-!ncf NMUL3.
com:ibtay
I,s



I   2                         3                                <       5
v   Gl') C :z ciP!c!-!YMl
V.') C! Il PccZtc%!ei LZd. eicdak          5C0
v jj INcw Chcm' Ir.dusZ3;-I  Ltd..
LbI  I;r.-ug c'rouct PvS. L'd.        -   6C0
xl  LuLnpLan r2tsrt.zi.
nl!n k1.k war
*xJ  AllIJcd Rcalnc
50  Cl1to:oio0arois           Clisrda Clcicilncl Ltd.
51. DZiapon                  1,  IOC, Bombay
UJ)  HIDC Prcd'ucta. Bor;mbey      100    100
52o. 2-4-D                    1)   Atul Products. Su'sar        1200   1200
LI)  A,rotnorc. BEabnaorc          535    535
U!)  Bliarat Pulvcrizing MUls.     200    200
Bombay
lvi  Grljchczn dlstillerlcz Ltd.   123    123
Ahrncdabad
53. DIruot                    1)   Agroniorc Ltd. Bangaloirc     200    2C0
lJ  Crow Clcezicals. eangalorc    50
111) Atul Product. VaL,ad          100    100
tv)  MtottLal Organlphosphilatuc    50
ln3cctlcldca. Mrstlhtirn
v3  1Indkin D)y tutrs Ltd.. Boi-y
54  FlttuclioraLiUi           BASF indla Ltd. Bomiay             200    200
(tE3.saLljls 
55  Ciypilosatc              11   Exccl Induztrlcs Ltd.. EBomlbay   -    100
Ul Volrho Ltd. NMcdak
llll JKD1 Ltd.. Ankaincv,r



:jO  I;;op!  o~u: on            1J   C b3da ~:c'.-lJC . A{unkac3s±   *   2(00
iii  Cu,arnt Ita_cctIcWzi Ltd.          -       
Ani.w ,c 'lcvar
!111  . rltllclIW. L:L'se.a:oric..          1200
Ankziu's.nr
lvi  LupLn Lzborntor!=z Pvt. Ltd.             180
An lknleswwar
v)   May & Salter tl) Ltd. Baroda  10           -
vi)  Puiijab Agro Wccdlcldca Ltd..
San3grur
vtl3  Moz:tarl ltidustrica Ltd.              500
Balachiaur
vlUl) Atul Products Ltd. Bulsar       100
'x)   Dtiocchc3t India Ltd.          650    650
' A,kralc,war
xi  I-'uslIak Ltd.. Panclay                  600
xi3  Sirl Pczi'cldecs Pvt. Ltd. Mcdak   -       -
xiM3  Itildustaii Cma.Gc1gy Ltd.. Goa -         -
x.i) Hilndustain lamccticidci.
flasayazl -
57.  IctaUcut:                 IJ   Uiiloia Carblde midli                *
Tliizourozi              U)   Boycr tidta Ltd. Ttiatic            -
(TrlbuniU.
53   Nczta:oli                 1)  IEL. Ltd.. Madra*                            *
IC'%Ixu '   rt' UOtl    ' 1)   Atul Proluct3 Ltd. Bo:xib3y    50
U)  Satidoz Iiidin Lld. bomu"-y
On.)  IY: .IsJus.1.            11  ICL. Calcutta                      500    500
Ul  Iidag Frodticts. Cuddalocc



-.
1   2                             3                               4      5
GI. Propaxtsr                1)  f3cycr 1lndL- Ltd. Thanc
Ul Tr--no A--la ChesrJcalv
Sl'nn d ra
w-}          Z~. PsQ.Y.XCIsS3 :;Cz        '.- T
52. Alu'.iJnlumn             I1  `xccl Industrk3 Ltd..
PFhc;phate                   sornbzy                       300    300
LI)  S-adeahlu  CherWcaL;,. -ombziy4o0    400
lIt!  UnIted Phowphorou3. VPapt  1000   1000
.,) I inra[t           Milvl1s  111L1  120    120
63. CoSzturyl                Ag.omorc L:d.. Bsangalore               50 50
64. v:Ethly1csic             11   Data C!iemirca! Ltd.. Bombay L08    108
01bromsdIe               I)  Excel Induatrlcz LId.. BombaylOO    100
Ul;  Unstcd Ph:c.phoroua. Vapl    50       S0
CS. MS1cti:yl Brmszddc            Ta4Ta Chcrmca!3 Ltd.         300   300
Bo mbay
GC. Zinc P1o:phidc           1)   ?'c.Icldca & Brwcwrr Ltd..   ISO    ISO
E3o r,noay
-I)  Exccl Indtrt:.c.. Bombay    300   300
11u.  Urn;cd Phozhcrouz. Bormbay500   500
_tv)  CZ3;rat ?uivcrlztng MULs Ltd.. 144    144
Dc r 1 b-ay
vl  Swadc.w!d Cl:c:tLic23. Bomzibay ISO    150
5, War arhi                  Pc3t Control (1) Pvt. Ltd..         50      50
F .ACA.P C,eJ CDS,
(iS  t)zcofol                Monltnrl 1;zd5ustrtc: L cd



a ~ ~    ~ ~      '                                                                        4
l  Tcls dal!uii                    ut                u rouct, 1u!:rr 50             DO
. , It ltkI (I}I'u:         l      n Juirlwr L td.
,5.s1,s, AIjih>i N 'W        £:xc! lcductrc:o L                        10      10
_'  C  co,cl                    HICO PrFC-4uCt. EOmb5y                   100      10
, 3  N'Iat Growth    '              l;idu3stn L-ivcf Ltd.. EaZ i        2000   2000
iRcg,ulazlt
-I
l~



Pesticide Manufacturing & Formulation Industry
"  Standards For Liquid Effluc-nt
: -                       Parametres                               Concentration not to excee'j jimits ir)
mgfl (except pH & bioassay)
' -) \Corn puIsory
1.  Temperature                          Shall not exceed 5cC above the
receiving water termperature.
2.  pH                                   6.5 to 8.5
3.  Oil & Grease                          10
4.   Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand          30
5.   Total Suspended Solids              100
6.  Bioassay Test                        90% survt8al of fish efser
96 hrs. in ICO% ettluent.
(Conid...)
-J
. -r                                                       fl



POramMOUros                             Concontration not to oxcood, (imits In
_nmg, (oxcopt pH 8 bioasssy)
b) SpzscIl1c Pesticide
1. Benzono hwoxacrnionat                       10
2 Cartoryi                                       t0
3. DDJ                                           10
4. Encosullan                                   10
5. Diamethoale                                 450
6. Fenlrotthion                                 10
7. Maalatrion                                   10
S. PrnoraIe                                     10
9 Melthyl Parathion                             10
10. Phenthoa!e                                   10
11  Pyrel"Irums                                  10
12. Copper Oxychloride                         9600
13. Copper sufphate                              50
14. Liarm                                      1000
15 Sulphw                                        30
16 Paraquat                                    2300
17 PropondJ                                    7300
1S  Nitrogen                                    780
C) Hcavy ietals
1. Copper                                      1.00
2. Maganese                                    1.00
3. Z:nc                                        1.00
4. Mercury                                     0.01
S Tin                                          0.10
6 Any other met2l like Nickel           shall not exceed 5 rimes
tho drinking wator
standards of E31S
d' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,'  '''r!.Q   ~ricj ' C                     1 O.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{;vxa ..



Parametrels                             Concentration not to excood, limiLs in
--   ._____                 - --         -       mgs (except pH & bioassay)
e) lnorganlc5
1.  Arsenic (as As)                              0.2
2.  Cyanide (as CON)                             0.2
3.  Nitrate (as NO,)                            5Q.0
4.  Phosphates (as P)                            5.0
-          ~~~Notes.
.   1.    LrUmits should be compiled with at the end of the treatment plant before any dilution.
2.    Bio-assay test should be carrned out with available species fish in receiving water.
3.    State Boards may prescribe limits of total dissolved solids (TDS), sulphates and
-                     chlordes depending on the uses of recipient water body.
4     State Board may prescribe COD limit correlated in BOD limit.
5.    Pesticides are know to have metabolites and isomers. If they are found in significant
concentration, standards may be prescribed for those in optional list by Central or State
Board.
6     Industries are advised to analyse pesticides in wastewater by advanced analytical
methods such as GLC/HPLC
7     All tie parameters w,il be compulsory for formulators, for others, the 7th will be optional.
Source: EPA Notification
[G.S.R. 742(E), di 301h Aug: 1990)
(Contd...)
A



III~~~~ I, If? I i2  1 Hs c.          li  | s    III  flo
(Oxcopt phI)
Compulsory psrameters
;  p'                                 6.5 -8.5
Oil & Greaso                           10
30D  at 20'C-                        100
Total Susper.ded solids               100
8icassay test                         90% survival after 96 hours in If00%
effluent Test should be carried out as
per IS: 6582-1971.
Parametres                                 limits in mg/i
(except pH)
Additional parazeters
;  Mercury                            0.01
Arsenic                               0.2
Chromium (Hexavalent)                 0.1
Lead                                  0.1
Cyanide                               0.1
Pnenolics (C,H,OH)                    1.0
Sulfiaes (as S)                       2.0
Phosphate (as P)                      5. 0
Tne itmit of B00 at 201C will De 30 mg/i if etfluent is disctarged directly to a Iresr
wa:er od(ay.
Th Tne acciliona parameters are applicaOle to tulk drug m.nufac,uring units aepencinfl,
upon the process and product.
. t'o lImit for COD is prescribed. but it should tOe monitored. If the COD of the treatec
ettluenl is greater than 250 mg/I. such industrial units are required to aentit'y
cnermcals causing the same  In case those are found to be toxic. as defined in
t-tazdouus Chemicals Rulc. 1989 (Schedule 1). ihe State E3cards in such casos
snail clirect tne industries to install teftiary tieatment system witthin the stipulated tinie
0r,r O:ner-vise COD rnay nol De stipulate(d This may be done on a case-to-c.Ise
(Approved fn 95tn Goard)
Meeting. dl Sept 23. 1993



