            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 36629-IN

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-29640)

               ON A

              CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 119.2 MILLION

                 TO

               INDIA

              FOR A

     MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT




            June 27, 2006

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2006)

                               Currency Unit = Rupees
                                    Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                    US$ 1.0 = Rs. 46.11

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   April 1  March 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACT     Artemisinin-Based Combination Therapy
API     Annual Parasitic Index
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CQ      Chloroquine
DDC     Drug Distribution Center
DDT     Dichloro-Diphenyl-Trichloroethane
EDPT    Early Diagnosis and Prompt Treatment
EMCP    Enhanced Malaria Control Program
FTD     Fever Treatment Depot
GOI     Government of India
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IEC     Information, Education, Communication
IRS     Indoor-Residual Spraying
ISR     Institutional Status Report
ITN     Insecticide Treated Bednet
LLIN    Long-Lasting Insecticide Treated Bednet
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Malaria Information System
MLV     Malaria Link Volunteer
MMN     Medicated Mosquito Net
MOHFW   Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NAMP    National Anti Malaria Program
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHC     Primary Health Center
PSA     Procurement Support Agent
RDK     Rapid Diagnostic Kit
VBDCP   Vector Borne Disease Control Program
WHO     World Health Organization

                 Vice President:  Praful Patel
              Country Director    Michael Carter
               Sector Manager     Anabela Abreu
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Suprotik Basu

                                            INDIA
                             MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 43

Project ID: P010511                                                  Project Name: MALARIA CONTROL
Team Leader: G N V Ramana                                            TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MALARIA CONTROL                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-29640
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (97%); Central government administration (2%); Sub-national government
                            administration (1%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S); Indigenous peoples (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/05/1995                                     Effective: 10/28/1997                09/30/1997
     Appraisal: 02/12/1997                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/12/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/MOHFW
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Robert Drysdale
Sector Manager:                 Anabela Abreu                                  Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:             Suprotik Basu                                  Prabhat Jha
ICR Primary Author:             Suprotik Basu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        The medium-term objective of the International Development Association (IDA) credit
    was to help India create an enhanced and more effective malaria control program that used a
    better mix of effective malaria control interventions responsive to local needs; and
    strengthened NMP and modified its orientation. The long-term objective was to reduce death,
    morbidity and social and economic losses from malaria.

        First, the enhanced program would represent a better mix of effective malaria control
    interventions by: (a) adopting a malaria control strategy currently recognized as optimal; (b)
    shifting the focus from vector control of the mosquito to prevention and treatment of human
   cases; (c) reducing reliance on indoor residual spraying, the success of which had diminished
    recently; and (d) using multiple interventions at local levels. Key benchmarks would be total
    spending on the mix of interventions, coverage with information, education and
    communication (IEC) messages, and degree of adherence to up-front policy commitments
    from Government of India (GOI) to IDA.

        Second, the NAMP would be strengthened and its orientation modified at all levels.
    Nationally, technical leadership, supervision, evaluation and financing of malaria control
    would be strengthened. Districts were to assume more responsibility for local malaria control
    by using newly developed guidelines for district implementation plans. States were to
    strengthen supervision and training functions. In the past, NAMP used military-command
    approaches to eradicate mosquitoes and dealt only minimally with the human environment of
    malaria. The enhanced program was to emphasize community involvement and ownership of
    malaria control. The key benchmark was planned to be the success of the district
    implementation plans.

        Third, the enhanced program should have helped to reduce death, morbidity and social and
    economic losses from malaria in the long term. Key benchmarks were the reduction in malaria
    cases and the stabilization of fatal malaria.

        To enable a flexible enhanced program that could deliver effective malaria control, the
    IDA Credit relied on: (a) the up-front policy commitments; (b) a detailed project
    implementation plan (PIP); and (c) a focus on structured and regular evaluation (the annual
    program development reviews).

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The development objective was not revised during project implementation. However, the
    project was restructured in December 2004 to assist GOI in eradicating poliomyelitis from the
    country to contribute to global polio eradication. This supplemented the ongoing
    Immunization Strengthening Project (Cr. 3340-IN) and the Supplemental Credit (Cr.
    3341-IN) by financing additional "polio eradication activities" which include supply of Oral
    Polio Vaccine (OPV), training, orientation, honorarium, consultant services, IEC material and
    services and mobility support needed for supplementary immunization activities during
    2004-2005. The ICR for the Immunization Strengthening Project is assessing the



                                                 - 2 -

    implementation of this objective.

3.3 Original Components:
IDA was to finance eighty-five percent, net of taxes, of the incremental requirement of the
enhanced program of the NAMP over five years. The NMP oversaw investments throughout the
country, based upon local needs and the guidelines for district implementation plans, starting in
certain rural districts with high malaria burdens. The project included five components (Table 1):




(a) The integrated early detection and prompt treatment of clinical cases component was to
improve the quality and accessibility of malaria treatment at primary health units, and in the
private sector improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis of malaria cases, and the treatment of
severe malaria. IDA was to finance drugs, laboratory supplies and equipment, training and
incremental salaries.

(b) The selective vector control component was to replace widespread indoor residual spraying
with more targeted spraying of insecticides determined by epidemiological stratification by village,
increase the use of non-insecticide vector control methods, such as larvivorous fish and
biolarvicides, and shift the selection of insecticides towards more environmentally neutral options.
IDA was to finance selected insecticides, vehicles, equipment, training, consultant services, and
operational research.

(c) The medicated mosquito net program component was to carefully increase the use of
medicated mosquito nets through grassroots organizations, social marketing groups, and public
distribution, including local production and distribution. IDA was to finance medicated mosquito
nets, insecticides, Non- Governmental Organization (NGO) services, and operational research.

(d) The epidemic response and intersectoral collaboration component was to strengthen
regional offices to identify and control outbreaks and epidemics, monitor resistance, build
intersectoral collaboration among national ministries, identify malaria sources from industrial
construction or projects, conduct health assessment studies and provide training and malaria
control guidelines to industries. IDA was to finance insecticides, vehicles, equipment, surveillance,
research, and training

(e) The institutional strengthening component was to improve management and planning skills
of state and district level staff, provide training in new skills such as social assessment, create and
disseminate an information, education and communication (IEC) program, support high-quality



                                                    - 3 -

operational research, prepare future project components and improve management and
information systems. IDA will finance civil works, vehicles, a management information system,
and a geographic information system, IEC, training, research studies, and incremental salaries.

3.4 Revised Components:
    There was no formal revision of project components. Two parts of the project were removed
    at Mid-Term Review: Civil Works and the Urban Malaria Scheme. The credit was suspended
    briefly in June 2002 to address delays in disbursements and program implementation and
    approximately US$46.5 million was cancelled from the credit. An additional US$4.71 million
    was reallocated to the Polio Eradication Program in October 2005. The project closing date
    of March 31, 2003 was extended 4 times and finally closed on December 31, 2005.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. It was not Bank policy to do an official assessment of the project
using a Quality at Entry Review (QER) at the time of project approval. However, the authors of
this Report feel that it is important to highlight a few points, given that the project did go through
the regular quality control steps present at the time (decision meeting, authorization to appraise,
etc), but in hindsight was still not ready for Board presentation. While the project's objectives
and strategy were consistent with national objectives and priorities, and the Bank's overall
Country Assistance Strategy for India, many of the implementation bottlenecks that brought the
project to a standstill over the first three years could have been foreseen during the five plus years
of project preparation, and mitigation measures should have been in place prior to entry. With
hindsight, it is clear that a phased approach to project implementation (perhaps even in the form
of two or three projects in sequence as a step-wise approach) would have been more appropriate
given the political and institutional complexities inherent to India. In effect, a phased approach
was employed, not by design, but by reality. The first three years were consumed by institutional
strengthening essential for implementation of the project, while the latter four years were spent on
implementation of the project itself.     The main foreseeable implementation bottlenecks were
failure to:

l agree on a satisfactory procurement arrangements for the project up-front

Given the procurement heavy nature of malaria control (and this project in particular), a
procurement agent with proven capacity should have been in place prior to project effectiveness.
The MOHFW initially hired (through sole-source) the Directorate General of Supplies and
Disposal to be the procurement agent for the project. The Directorate did not have the capacity
to serve a project of this size and scope and was replaced by a different agent (RITES) through a
competitive process. However, by the time RITES was hired, two-years had elapsed and no
major procurements occurred other than those of Synthetic Pyrethroids.

l identify the need for structures and personnel at the state level to guide decentralized
    implementation

The project design depended heavily on state-level implementation, however, recruitment delays
at state-level (ultimately, State Malaria Control Societies were put in place) prevented progress in
the first two-years of implementation. While increased decentralization could be considered to be


                                                   - 4 -

part of project implementation (the Institutional Strengthening Component), with hindsight, it is
clear that certain structures and personnel at State level needed to be in place prior to project
effectiveness as the design was predicated on the decentralized platform for success. An
alternative approach would have been a phased approach to implementation, in which the creation
of the Societies would have been carried out as part of project implementation.

l put-in place an effective M&E framework and clearly measurable indicators critical for
    assessing the implementation progress and impact

For instance, other than the development of a series of guidelines, creation of committees, and
documents there was little guidance as to how "epidemic response and intersectoral"
collaboration was to be measured. Some of the key indicators in the PAD were multi-tiered and
not possible to measure. For instance, the "strengthened and reoriented National Malaria Project
Indicator" read: "Number of districts action plans that have been completed and have resulted in
more than two community meetings and the spending of more than at least 60% of allocated
funds." There are at least 3 independent variables in this one indicator, making it very difficult to
measure, and of limited use for program monitoring.

l highlight the importance of quality assurance in project operations, especially indoor residual
    spraying

Greater emphasis on quality control, particularly for the "selective vector control" aspects would
have been useful given the importance of the quality of spray operations (and the difficulty of
achieving this quality given the decentralized project design) in reducing malaria transmission.

It is important to note that the technical design of the project was sound, and was based on
lessons learned from previous malaria control projects and on extensive interaction with
international organizations (e.g. WHO). In addition, the development of criteria to target project
interventions to districts with highest malaria burden highlights a recognition for targeting in a
country as epidemiologically diverse as India.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The current system of rating performance in the Bank does
    not accommodate ratings within categories and therefore the ICR team has been
    constrained to give a "Satisfactory" rating here, in Section 2 (Principal Performance
    Ratings), and in Annex 6. A more correct rating, if the system would have allowed it,
    would be "Moderately Satisfactory."        The rating is mainly based on available surveillance
    data, review of studies and reports, and field visits undertaken by the ICR team. There is
    substantial evidence of positive changes in trends and specific impacts, though it is difficult to
    assign attribution to the project itself. However, this was a complicated project tackling a
    complicated disease. Project implementation, originally scheduled for 5 years, took 8 years to
    complete and disbursed about 63% of the originally planed expenditures, making the project
    highly unsatisfactory on efficiency grounds. This negative rating has been offset primarily by
    the positive epidemiological trends and the strategic reorientation of the national program



                                                 - 5 -

from eradication to control. Annex 1 outlines the main objectives, proposed actions in the
PAD and the key outcomes for each component.

Use of a better mix of effective anti-malarial interventions (Development Objective
Indicator 1): Use of Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) continues to decline in project districts;
less than 25 million people were covered in 2004 which is 51% less than in 1997 (when 49
million people were covered), reflecting a much higher degree of targeting as opposed to
more wide-spread IRS as was common during the eradication effort. The program has been
successful in shifting emphasis from indoor residual spraying (IRS) to a broader mix of
effective - including early detection and prompt treatment (EDPT), use of insecticide-treated
bed nets (ITNs) - and environmentally friendly interventions such as stocking of water bodies
with larvivorous fish.

The quality of IRS implementation, however, remains highly variable and is not routinely
monitored, which is likely to have reduced significantly its effectiveness in vector control.
Approximately 10 million insecticide-treated bednets have been procured for EMCP districts
from 1998-2005, which are enough to cover approximately 17% of the high-risk population in
the project area (total population of approximately 58 million). Coverage, however, is
variable across and within states. For instance, ITN coverage among "high-risk" populations
in EMCP states ranges from 6.9% (Rajasthan) to 50.88% (Orissa). Implementation of an
integrated vector management strategy, which is under development, will be important to
ensure increased use of insecticide treated materials in areas where IRS is scaled-down to
sustain vector control.

Strengthen and re-orient NAMP at all levels (Development Objective Indicator 2):
While some good progress has been made towards achieving this objective at national level,
progress at state and district levels has been much more modest and falls short of
expectations, especially among the weaker states. At national level, technical leadership,
capacity for undertaking annual program reviews of state plans and monitor their
implementation have been strengthened over the life of the project. Several program
guidelines (e.g. insecticide-treated bednets, public-private partnerships) have been developed
by the VBDCP Directorate and disseminated to the States. In addition, a clear framework has
been provided to the States, with which State Malaria Control Programs develop annual
Implementation Plans. The shift in name and organizational mandate from the "National
Malaria Eradication Program" to the "National Vector Borne Disease Control Program",
reflects not only the shift from eradication to control of malaria, but also the importance
placed at national level on an integrated approach to vector management more broadly.
Finally, the National Program would have benefited from greater emphasis on program
management and it is expected that this aspect will be increasingly important given the
expanded mandate from malaria to vector borne disease control.

At State and District-level, capacity for planning and budgeting has generally improved,
however, greater progress toward decentralizing program planning and decision making over
the seven years of project implementation should be evident after 8 years. Vacancies of critical
program staff, especially a dedicated program manager at district level and staff at the



                                              - 6 -

sub-district level (Malaria Supervisors and Male Multipurpose Workers) in many states
severely constrained the decentralized planning and implementation. Despite these limitations,
a significant accomplishment of the project is preparation of annual plans by all States and
most Districts, whereas prior to the EMCP neither level prepared such plans. The
importance of developing Annual Work Plans at State Level should not be understated as it
marked a substantial step forward in decentralization of planning within centrally sponsored
schemes. However, there remains significant variability in the comprehensiveness and quality
of state implementation plans which (at district level in particular) are often following a
template-based approach that lacks strategic focus on high burden areas, unreached groups
and fails to optimize the available resources.

Where greater progress was particularly expected, though, was the degree to which districts
would assume greater responsibility for local malaria control. Even in higher-performing
states, such as Gujarat, the ability and capacity of districts to supervise and manage malaria
control (especially in the face of changing transmission patterns) is limited. District, and to
some extent State level program attention is driven by the collection of extremely large
amounts of data while the use of those data for program management, for instance to identify
the vulnerable groups and target within districts, and to mount a stronger and faster response
to epidemics, is unclear. In addition, the homogeneity and relative emphasis of project
interventions across states may not be appropriate given the varied disease burden and
implementation capacities across EMCP states. An underlying cause of the limited district
progress in planning and management may be a higher than ideal level standardization and lack
of incentives for innovation from the national level. The existing surveillance system has not
evolved as impressively from the eradication era as, for instance, the indoor-spraying, and
should be addressed in future operations. Further discussion of the surveillance system, its
strengths, limitations, pressures it places on the health system at all levels and added benefit
for those pressures are discussed in the component sections below. The degree to which state
annual plans of work capture total program (supported by the Central-level and State)
expenditures is uncertain. From this Review it appears that the Annual Work Plans are
limited to project inputs rather than comprehensive plans that include all activities for malaria
control irrespective of sources of financing (commodity supply from center, state financing
and project funds released through societies). These findings should be viewed within the
broader context of the challenges facing decentralized disease control. Similar issues have
been faced with regard to district ownership and evidence-based planning in most malaria
control projects (and disease control projects more broadly) worldwide, and particularly in
sub-Saharan Africa. The GOI's maintenance of "vertical" program guidance with horizontal
implementation is generally successful and should be studied further to generate lessons
learned for other parts of the world.

Reduced morbidity and mortality due to malaria (Development Objective Indicator 3).
According to Government of India surveillance data, impressive progress has been achieved in
reducing malaria morbidity in project (EMCP) supported districts (n=100) within the 8 project
states over the project period. While morbidity and mortality due to malaria have been largely
declining in India since 1976, this trend was generally more pronounced in project districts
and states. In 2004, approximately 650,000 malaria cases were reported in the 1045 EMCP



                                              - 7 -

                Primary Health Care Centers, which represents a 45% decline since 1997. With regard to
                mortality, there are substantial deficiencies in data reliability; 226 deaths were reported in
                2004 in project States. At an aggregated state-level, by the project mid-term (2001) the
                average decline in case-load in EMCP and non-EMCP states was more or less similar and
                ranged around 25%. However, from 2001-2005, a much steeper decline was noted in
                EMCP states (25%) compared to an only 1% decline in non-EMCP states.

                                Malaria situation in the EMCP districts (1997-2005)
                   Year    Total Malaria Cases         API        P.falciparum cases          Deaths due to
                                 (in million)                           (in million)                 malaria
                1997                          1.19        6.12                       0.72                  539
                1998                          1.23        6.22                       0.80                  447
                1999                          1.26        6.30                       0.85                  589
                2000                          1.09        5.65                       0.76                  644
                2001                          0.93        4.83                       0.63                  403
                2002                          0.83        3.97                       0.57                  520
                2003                          0.75        3.96                       0.52                  386
                2004                          0.65        3.48                       0.41                  226
                2005*                         0.39            -                      0.25                  164


Source: National Vector Borne Disease Control Program, GOI

                                 Number of Malaria Cases in Project v. non-Project States


                3,000,000




                2,500,000




                2,000,000



 Cases
      of        1,500,000



        Millions
                1,000,000




                  500,000




                        0

                              Baseline (1997)            Midterm (2001)              End of Project (2004)

                                                                                                 National
                                                                                                 EMCP
                                                                                                 Non-EMCP



                It is not possible to draw a causal relationship between interventions supported under EMCP
                and the reductions in malaria burden of EMCP-supported Primary Health Care Centers,



                                                               - 8 -

    Districts, and States as the project design and related indicators focus on inputs and impact,
    with limited standardized tools for monitoring of processes and implementation quality.
    Consequently, concerns raised during the mid-term review with regard to the bias in the active
    surveillance system toward negative cases remains valid. Finally, the reliability of
    slide-confirmation (e.g. the error rate) is unclear in the absence of robust data triangulation
    (entomological, epidemiological, and parasitological). Confirmation through highly targeted
    surveys, ideally with process and outcome indicators, during transmission periods would have
    aided in data validation.

    Stabilization of "fatal malaria" (i.e. P. falciparum) has occurred with the number of reported
    P.f. cases dropping from 700,000 to 400,000. However, there has been a slight rise from
    58.8% to 61.5% for P. faliciparum as a percentage of total cases over the project period.
    Recent increasing trends in P.f. as a percentage of total cases in some states (e.g. Gujarat) are
    worrying and underscore the importance of strengthened surveillance and response, to ensure
    prompt and effective treatment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Component 1: Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment (US$44.7 million
allocated)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The main objective of this component was to improve quality and
accessibility of treatment in the Primary Health Center (PHC) and in the private sector, and
improve the speed and accuracy of diagnosis and treatment of severe malaria. The project has
been successful in increasing access to diagnosis and treatment of malaria in EMCP districts,
primarily through the inputs of the Drug Distribution Centers (DDC), Fever Treatment Depots
(FTD) and Malaria Link Volunteers (MLV). The number of workers in all three cadres increased
over the life of the project, from a total of 200,000 in 1997 to 500,000 in 2006 across the country,
including EMCP districts. On average, nearly 100 million blood slides are collected annually,
largely through the FTDs.      The incorporation of `combi blister packs' of chloroquine and
primaquine as well as the introduction of Rapid Diagnostic Kits (RDKs) have, respectively,
improved treatment quality and compliance, as well as diagnostic access in remote and difficult to
access areas like the sub health centers and beyond.

Although access to diagnosis and treatment has been increased in the EMCP, it is difficult to
assess if the diagnosis is made early and if the treatment of malaria is complete, given the lack of
monitoring indicators. In addition, the link between increased DDCs, FTDs, and MLVs and
improvements in this component would be strengthened with data on use of these services.

The project has been less than successful in improving the quality and accessibility of malaria
treatment in the private sector (in addition to the primary health care units), as little evidence can
be found to suggest that a serious attempt was made to engage the private sector in diagnosis and
treatment in the project. Given the large proportion of malaria cases that are treated by private
health care providers in ECMP districts (and in the States, more broadly), the project may have
largely missed a valuable opportunity to reduce the malaria burden among those who either do not
have access to, or those who do not regularly access, public services. Furthermore, given the
important role of blood-slide collection (which falls under this component) in the surveillance


                                                   - 9 -

system, the lack of private sector engagement is likely to have limited the representativeness of
disease burden in India, with implications for the surveillance system and intervention targeting
across the project. The authors are aware that the informal private sector is particularly difficult
to harness, but encourage future efforts to have a stronger focus on these important potential
allies.

On the basis of information from GOI, P falciparum resistance to chloroquine is now emerging in
the country, most significantly in the North East. So far, 236 primary health-care centers in 19
states or towns have been identified as chloroquine-resistant areas. The first phase of the
Government's response has been to ensure sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine therapy is available in
place of chloroquine in areas where the efficacy of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine remains high. In
areas of resistance to that combination, artesunate with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine has been
recommended, and supported through the project.

There are regional variations within India and P vivax causes about 52.5% of the country's
1,781,336 confirmed malaria cases (2003). Chloroquine is still generally an effective treatment for
P. vivax. In 2003, WHO issued revised policy guidelines for the treatment of P. falciparum
malaria, recommending a shift to ACT in areas with CQ resistance. In 2004, the GOI, using IDA
credit proceeds began procuring ACTs.         The GOI rightly continued to procure chloroquine for
use in the country for treating P. vivax and also for P. falciparum where it was still effective.
However, it is important to stress that surveillance for drug resistance could be substantially
strengthened, and as resistance to CQ expands, GOI should accelerate expansion with ACTs.

The ICR authors are aware that this project has come under some external criticism for the
decision to not change malaria treatment policy to ACT nationwide. We find that a "one-size fits
all" policy would be inappropriate in the context of India, but that the issue should be closely
monitored to ensure that ACTs are quickly made available to those areas in which CQ resistance
has crossed WHO-approved thresholds. We are aware that the speed at which the transition to
ACTs is occurring is an issue of debate within GOI-convened expert committees, and support
action to ensure that effective treatments are made available in line with documented resistance
and transmission patterns. We also recognize the operational constraints endemic to policy
changes in a complex and large country.

    Component 2: Selective Vector Control (US$81.20 million allocated)

    ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The main objective of this component was to replace widespread
    IRS with targeted spraying and increase use of non-insecticide vector control methods. The
    project has been successful in replacing widespread indoor-spraying with targeted spraying
    and increasing use of non-insecticide vector control methods. Use of IRS continues to decline
    in project districts; less than 25 million people were covered in 2004 which is 51% less than in
    1997 (when 49 million people were covered), reflecting a much higher degree of targeting as
    opposed to more wide-spread IRS as was common during the eradication effort. Some
    states, such as Gujarat and Maharastra, are even targeting spraying to the village level.
    However, quality control of IRS remains highly variable across and within States and it is not
    clear if the project has improved IRS quality.



                                                  - 10 -

       Insecticide wise population targeted for spray during the past
                                          5 years
80000000
70000000
60000000
50000000
40000000
30000000
20000000
10000000
        0
                 2000            2001            2002           2003           2004

                              DDT          Malathion         Syn. Pyrethroids




Use of non-insecticide vector control methods, such as larvivorous fish and insecticide-treated
bednets has increased in the project, with 21180 district-level fish hatcheries established and
approximately 10 million ITNs (covering 21% of the EMCP targeted population).

As with other components, the lack of process indicators, which in this case could have
assisted in monitoring spray quality, makes it difficult to assess the population effectively (not
nominally) covered by IRS, and more importantly, for the program to make mid-course
corrections at district and sub-district levels to improve effectiveness. For instance, some
state visits during and after the mid-term review revealed that many number of houses are
sprayed on the outside, which is unlikely to have significant impact on the malaria burden.
Staff vacancies (Malaria Supervisors, Male-multipurpose Workers, Entomologists) and
time-pressures (partly related to the data collection driven incentive system) are contributing
to a lack of appropriate supervision and systematic monitoring of insecticide efficacy.

Finally, there are concerns about the reliability of IRS targeting based on API through active
case-detection. All states appear have shifted to a model of selective targeting of control
measures, based primarily on the API rates at local level (API greater or less than 2).
However, given the relatively large number of negative slides collected via active case
detection, API could be artificially depressed, leading to premature cessation of IRS.

Component 3: Medicated Mosquito Net Program (US$23.40 million allocated)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The main objective of this component was to increase carefully
the use of ITNs through grassroots organizations, social marketing groups, and public
distribution, including local production. Incorporation of ITNs into the Vector Borne Disease
Control Program, while rather late (taking four years into project implementation to begin), is
one of the more important and attributable accomplishments of IDA support to EMCP.            The



                                              - 11 -

strategy of geographic targeting and blanketing the high-risk communities is technically sound
and appropriate. Approximately 10 million ITNs have been supplied through the project to
date and an estimated coverage of 17% of the high-risk population has been achieved, which
is impressive given the relatively short implementation period.

Progress in distribution of nets through private sector channels remains limited. This is an
unfortunate outcome given that many households in some states have already purchased
untreated nets at market prices, suggesting a market presence and capacity to pay for the nets,
that could have been harnessed for public health gains. Similarly, engagement of grassroots
organizations and social marketing firms has also been limited.

The technical rationale behind procurement of untreated mosquito nets and
insecticide-treatment kits separately, as opposed to pre-treated insecticide-treated mosquito
nets and/or nets packaged with insecticides (known as `bundled nets') is unclear and could
adversely relate to ITN effectiveness given the opportunities for variance in treatment/dipping
quality.

Finally, though this is discussed in more depth in Section 5.4 (Procurement), there are
constraints in procurement capacity that make procurement of large quantities of nets difficult
through central procurement. Future projects could explore alternatives, if any, to central
procurement and some options are provided in the Lessons Learned section below (Section
8).



                Status of Bed Nets supply under EMCP (in 000s)

                                                                              4400
     4500

                                                                     3775
     4000
                                                                             Proposed


N    3500

o    3000
s
     2500

o
     2000
f

     1500                                                  1200

n
e    1000

t
      500               60      175       90       230
s              40

        0
           1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02   2002-03  2003-04  2004-05  2005-06*

                                            Years




                                             - 12 -

   Component 4: Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Coordination (US$19.50 million
allocated)

   ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The main objective of this component was to
   strengthen regional offices to identify and control outbreaks and epidemics, monitor
   resistance, build intersectoral collaboration and conduct health assessment studies. It is
   unclear to what extent the project has assisted in controlling epidemics as it is difficult to
   establish a causal link. The project has supported the development of guidelines, training of
   staff, and the development of the computerized National Malaria Information System
   (NAMIS), all with the purpose of controlling local epidemics (though the scope of MIS goes
   beyond epidemic response - see Component 5).

   Preventive activities, however, have been largely unable to stop the occurrence of localized
   epidemics and certain outbreaks. In Madhya Pradesh (2004), an epidemic influenced the
   entire morbidity pattern of the state. Epidemics in other states may have reversed, to variable
   degrees, the gains of control efforts. However, it could be argued that the fact that previously
   endemic states are now epidemic-prone is actually a sign of progress, as it most likely reflects
   a decrease in the overall transmission intensity of malaria in those states. It does, of course,
   present a new challenge to these states, which must now re-tool strategy to focus on epidemic
   preparedness and control. Finally, the limited mortality data available (due to relatively few
   deaths per state) do not allow a firm conclusion on the effectiveness of epidemic control
   activities.

   As an example of collaboration between malaria and other priority programs, treatment of
   malaria is being integrated with IMNCI (Integrated Management of Nutrition and Childhood
   Illnesses) under India's Reproductive and Child Health program. In the area of intersectoral
   collaboration, the NVBDCP entered into partnership with the private sector, NGOs,
   community-based and faith-based organizations. However, there is little evidence to suggest
   that these partnerships have resulted in actual intersectoral collaboration at an operational
   level.   In 2004 and 2005 several consultations/advocacy sessions were held at national,
   regional and state levels with other government departments (e.g. Army, Railways etc.), and
   the corporate sector (e.g. Confederation of Indian Industry). These activities contributed to
   developing workplace policy guidelines and to scale-up malaria preventive measures in
   industries and other governmental departments.

   Collaboration with ministries of Environment and Forests envisaged in the project did not
   happen and the "health assessment studies" (which were to assess the impact of infrastructural
   development on malaria) were not carried out.

   However, there is evidence to suggest that collaboration across sectors was better at district
   level, where forest and tribal workers serve as DDC/FTDs. As with everything, this varies
   from state to state. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture has been involved in the larvivorous
   fish program from the start, and in Gujarat State, the Ministry of Tourism has also been
   involved.



                                                - 13 -

    Component 5: Institutional Strengthening (US$35.10 million allocated)

    ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The main objectives of this component were to improve
    management and planning skills of state and district level staff, provide new skills, create and
    disseminate an IEC program, support high-quality operational research, prepare future project
    components, and improve management and information systems. Among the main activities
    planned under this rather extensive component, the project has made noteworthy contributions
    in the areas of introducing of the concept of annual program review and development and
    piloting a computer based management information system. At the end of the project all
    EMCP districts were preparing standard plans and NAMIS software is being used by over 140
    districts. Also, the project succeeded in initiating new approaches for supportive supervision
    through strengthening program partnerships with Malaria Research Center and Regional
    Directors of Health & Family welfare. However, the progress in translating such management
    support inputs to better program decisions at district and state levels did not happen much,
    especially among the weaker states. Shortage of dedicated district program managers, poor
    internet connectivity and lack of flexibility in project design seemed to have contributed to
    this. The training and IEC activities to a large extent depended on traditional approaches such
    as print media, mass training with focus on numbers covered rather than quality and the need.
    The project would have been benefited from an overarching strategy developed on the basis of
    strong needs assessment and constant fine-tuning of these two critical inputs during
    implementation.

    Finally, the extent to which management and planning skills of district-level staff have
    improved is unclear. While many trainings have taken place (which are difficult to
    disaggregate by category, see Annex 1), more frequent competency assessments would have
    been useful to evaluate progress in this component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Substantial. The institutional shift from malaria eradication to malaria control was
largely cemented during this project. Specific institutional development impact accomplishments
include:

l The use of National Malaria Information System by 70% of project districts
l Stronger Directorate, with a multidisciplinary staff
l Decentralized planning in both project and non-project districts
l Introduction of annual program reviews.
l Strengthened partnership between the program and research institutions (MRC/ICMR) to
    provide supportive supervision more systematically
l Evolving partnership with corporate private sector, other government agencies, faith based



                                                 - 14 -

    organizations and other ministries.

The most compelling reason for a "substantial" rating for this aspect of the project relates to the
impact this project has had in non-project districts. Institutional development progress, such as
Annual Program Reviews, the development technical guidelines, and introduction of
computerized surveillance through NAMIS was not limited to project districts, but rather, was
included in all states. A key role of Bank support to GOI is to catalyze broader change processes;
this project succeeded in doing just that, which bodes well for country-ownership and long-term
sustainability.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

l Urbanization/Migration. The urban population has more than doubled in India in the last
    two decades and approximately 25-40% of the population resides in peri-urban areas which
    are often unplanned and consequently an ideal environment for malaria epidemics (Sharma,
    1996). Increased migration between stable endemic rural areas to unstable endemic urban
    areas (and vice-versa), may have contributed to an increase in malaria transmission as well as
    resistance to drug treatment (Martens, 2000).

l DDT Resistance. While the project succeeded in one of its main objectives of reducing the
    use of DDT, it is still used as a major vector control strategy. Operational studies in India
    indicate there has been increased vector resistance to DDT. Ineffectiveness of DDT may
    include physiological resistance of the vector after six decades of spraying and increased
    indoor malaria transmission by vectors (Sharma, 2003).

l Rainfall. Variations in seasonal rainfall over the last eight years could have contributed to the
    increase in malaria cases in certain states. Orissa, Chattisgarh and Jharkhand generally receive,
    on average, more rainfall than the remaining five states in the Program Based on data
    collected by the Indian Institute of Meteorological Studies, 2005 and epidemiological data
    indicates that prevalence of malaria cases is higher in those three states with the exception of
    Madhya Pradesh.

                                              Rainfall in EMCP States (ml/yr)
State                             1997      1998       1999     2000       2001   2002   2003     2004 Average
Rajisthan                          558       482        370      336        294    344    196       313     362
Madhya Maharastra                  859       705        588      549        540    498    446       625     601
Andhra Pradesh                     739       869        592      763        750    529    656       637     692
Gujurat                            742      1124        940      474        463    685    500       978     738
Madhya Pradesh                    1040       874       1031      674        875    720    937       707     857
Chattisgarh                       1126      1040       1084      827       1173    784   1240       993    1033
Jharkhand                         1172      1159       1254     1254        907   1288    857     1166     1132
Orissa                            1386      1127       1389      974       1550    961   1492     1125     1251

Source: Indian Institute of Tropical Meterology
http://www.tropmet.res.in/



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    i. Slow appointment of key staff: The Government of India (GOI) was slow to appoint key



                                                     - 15 -

    state-level and central technical staff such as financial officers, social scientists and public
    health experts at the EMCP. On a positive note, the appointment of a new Additional
    Secretary, had clear leadership impact on the program's performance and government
    commitment.

    ii. National procurement agency was not chosen quickly: A procurement agent was not
    chosen until 1999; approximately two years after the Program began. Despite clearance from
    technical committees for the purchase of commodities, there were long delays in procuring
    microscopes, bednets and biolarvicides.

    iii. Complicated clearance procedures for expenditure and administrative tasks: Prior to
    the appointment of state level coordinators and the creation of state level societies, clearance
    procedures for expenditure and administrative tasks were complicated and often required
    approval of minor expenditures by the GOI. The enhanced role of the state seemed to have
    helped decision making and ownership of the project by states. In addition, increased
    delegation of financial and administrative powers to the Directorate of NBVDCP reduced the
    need for excess clearances, particularly for administrative tasks.

    iv. Poor coordination and communication between MOHFW and NAMP: Communication
    and coordination between the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) and National
    Anti Malaria Program was limited prior to credit suspension. A core team met each month
    from both agencies in the first two years of the Program to discuss and assess the status of
    implementation, but very little was done in those years to strengthen the Program. Only in late
    1999, were support staff appointed to the NAMP, and the Program Director's level of
    financial authority was increased by the MOHFW so that the Program could be more
    independent.

    v. Strong Counterpart funding by the GOI: The GOI provided substantial financial support
    to the cost of the project. The GOI contributed approximately 35% to the total cost, which is
    11% more than what was planned at the time of project design.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    (i) Decentralization occurred during project, but implementation was slower than
    expected.: A technical review in July 2000 recommended that the project undergo
    decentralization through the creation of state malaria control societies. A Bank supervision
    mission in December 2001 noted that progress towards decentralization had stalled. After
    restructuring in 2002, state malaria control societies were functioning and funds and
    commodities were channeled through them to the EMCP districts. As a result, the districts
    were supervised directly by state level societies and received much more technical and
    financial guidance as compared to the first few years of the project.

    (ii) Shortage of trained staff: There is a shortage of epidemiologists and trained public-
    health staff, in particular, entomologists, full time district malaria officers (e.g. in the malaria
    endemic state of Orissa only 3 out of 30 districts have dedicated program managers), malaria
    inspectors/supervisors and male multipurpose workers (up to 30% vacancies). Strategic



                                                    - 16 -

    management of the malaria control program was, therefore, minimal since trained staff were
    limited at all levels of the program. To address this shortage, the Program conducted
    trainings. However, in evaluating the types of training provided, it was difficult to discern
    how many public health and epidemiology specific courses were administered for district and
    state level officers.

    (iii) Slow follow-up after Bank repeatedly identified implementation gaps in supervision
    missions: Bank supervision missions generally provided technical guidance and discussed
    program specific issues through dialogue with the directorate, state and district level officers.
    Prior to the restructuring, there was limited follow up on the issues documented by the Bank
    in ISRs. After the change in National Malaria Control Program management post-suspension,
    there was significantly greater effort and action on the part of the Program to follow up on the
    implementation and technical bottlenecks identified by the Bank.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total expenditures incurred for the project were US$108.1 million, which is approximately 63%
of the total US$171.1 estimated at appraisal (before the cancellations and reallocations). The
original credit closing date was extended four times: from March 31, 2003 to March 31, 2004,
later to March 31, 2005 and subsequently to October 31, 2005, and finally to December 31, 2005.
If the project had closed in 2003, as planned, it would have disbursed only 36% of the credit
proceeds.

Bank management briefly suspended the credit in June 2002 to address delays in disbursements
and program implementation and at GOI's request, US$46.5 million were then cancelled from the
project. In 2004, US$10 million was allocated for Polio Eradication Program, and another
US$4.74 million was allocated for Polio in October 2005.

The project experienced an extremely slow start and in 2001, half way through the original
timeline of the project, only 21% of the credit had disbursed. Prior to the temporary loan
suspension in 2003, only US$11.8 million on average was disbursed yearly. Program
implementation accelerated at state and district level after 2003, leading to a 50% increase in
yearly disbursement and resulting in full disbursement of the remaining credit by project closing.




                                                - 17 -

                      India Malaria Control Project Disbursement and Reallocation History
             180000000


             160000000


             140000000


             120000000                                                                                                                 $107,090,994


             100000000                                                                                                     $93,623,395

   Loan
                                                                                                           $75,066,633
              80000000
       Total
                                                                                            $60,867,153                                FY 2006: Loan
                                                                                                                                       reallocation of
              60000000                                                         $49,306,132                                             USD $ 4,700,000
                                                                                                                                       to Polio?
                                                                   $36,631,312                              FY 2004: Loan
              40000000
                                                                                          *FY 2003: Loan    reallocation of USD
                                                    $21,678,651                           cancellation of   $10,000,000 to Polio

                                                                                          USD $46,500,000
              20000000              $11,085,782
                         $5,622,200


                     0
                           1998           1999           2000           2001        2002         2003         2004             2005            2006

   *At the point of loan cancellation in 2003, only 36% of the loan was            Year
   disbursed and on average only $11.9 million was disbursed each year
   through the course of the project.                                                                                          Total Loan

                                                                                                                               Disbursement
                 Source: WB Project Portal, 3-15-2006                                                                          Cumulative Disbursement



Procurement. Malaria control is a commodity heavy endeavor and this project was no exception,
with about 75% of project proceeds going to commodity procurement. The project experienced
severe problems in commodity procurement, particularly at the start of the project that account
partly for slowing disbursements, the numerous extensions, and proceeds cancellations. The
MOHFW initially hired (through sole-source) the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal to
be the procurement agent for the project. The Directorate did not have the capacity to serve a
project of this size and scope and was replaced by a different agent (RITES) through a
competitive process. However, by the time RITES was hired, two-years of had elapsed and no
major procurements occurred other than Synthetic Pyrethroids.

In general, it does not seem to be the Bank's procurement procedures themselves that served as
an impediment to smooth and timely procurement, but rather adherence to the agreed procedures
by the client and procurement agent, which was perhaps compounded by inadequate supervision
by the Bank. A recent Bank-financed procurement review yielded four main conclusions:

l The procurements that were well prepared with adequate specifications and appropriate prior
            review before and during the procurement process resulted in timely contract awards without
            significant delays.
l Procurements in which the Borrower began with a request for exception to World Bank
            procurement guidelines, or later sought to circumvent World Bank procurement procedures,



                                                                            - 18 -

    typically took the longest time to complete.
l A common mistake of bidders was the failure to provide appropriate bid security in the form
    required, resulting in disqualified bidders and lessened competition.
l Clear guidance from the Bank to the Borrower regarding appropriate specification standards
    for bed nets and insecticides, though not common practice, may have allowed the Borrower to
    engender increased competition, obtain lower prices, and possibly higher quality inputs.

There were two specific problems encountered under this project that merit attention:

1.      Procurement Method/Prior Review

International Competitive Bidding (ICB) thresholds were sometimes avoided by tendering of
multiple contracts under the aggregate threshold. RITES, however, did consult with the Bank
and the Bank agreed to breakdown the tender into schedules that would fall outside prior review
and below ICB thresholds. In one instance the Bank sent draft bid documents back to the
procurement agent and notified the agent of the "mistake" of submitting the documents when the
individual schedules were for less than $300,000; the total procurement was for considerably
more.

The main message here is the rationale against breaking down packages; if a tender for several
schedules allows bidders to bid for a number of lots that will ultimately be converted into
"contracts", it would be possible that the total value of a potential contract that combines various
lots would fall above the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and, therefore, should be subject
to prior review.

2.      Registration Requirements and Performance Criteria

Registration requirements are not unique to India; in most developed countries, registration is
mandatory and there can be substantial time lags in obtaining a licence. India is no exception, but
these delays contributed to slower project implementation. The borrower requires all suppliers to
be registered with the respective Boards within India. Initially, the borrower required registration
to be completed within 21 days after contract award or the contract would be awarded to the next
lowest bidder. Due partly to issues with the inability of one firm to receive Central Insecticide
Board (CIB) registration, the Bank withdrew the funding for Synthetic Pyrethroids and ultimately
came to an agreement with the GOI that all future bidders must be registered with CIB at the time
of bid and that future procurements be handled through NCB. NCB was utilized twice prior to the
formal agreement between the World Bank and GOI.

In 2004, performance criteria under the project also changed from a 50% requirement to 80% for
past supply orders (per schedule) over a five-year period. In one procurement, a firm was
awarded a contract with only three years past performance, although the determined criteria in the
bid document is stated as five years.

The project was seriously affected by the difficulties at the start of the project to choose a
procurement agent. While the situation improved considerably after the selection of a new



                                                 - 19 -

procurement agent, issues relating to procurement method/prior review adherence, registration
requirements and performance criteria, and delays in Bank no-objections, all contributed to
sluggish procurement. A proper procurement plan at the start of the project - one that stresses
appropriate emphasis on issues associated with the supply chain, including forecasting, storage,
and distribution  would have greatly facilitated the procurement processes.

The value of using procurement support agencies (PSAs), including the one recruited for NAMP
(RITES) has been questioned in recent procurement reviews by the Bank. It has been agreed with
GOI not to use PSA's on health operations, pending the outcomes of a planned Detailed
Implementation Review.

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the Bank's own capacity to respond to procurement
requests and monitor adherence to technical specifications and agreed guidelines is limited. This
issue is not black and white, however. It is the responsibility of the Bank Task Team Leader (or
an expert consultant if the Bank TTL is not an expert in the technical details), not the project
Procurement Specialist, to clear technical specifications.      Future projects are at severe risk of
encountering similar delays if procurement supervision capacity is not improved, perhaps through
contracting with a firm or technical agency (like WHO) to provide technical backstopping to
TTLs to assist in clearances and adherence to technical specifications. This could even be done at
corporate level, rather than country-by-country.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    ICR Rating: Highly Likely. Central government commitment to the program remains
    extremely high and commitment by states and districts has increased over the life of the
    project, particularly after increased decentralization of planning and implementation authority
    through the formation of State Malaria Control Societies. In relatively high-performing states,
    such as Gujarat and Rajasthan, significant variable costs are being allocated to malaria control
    efforts in addition to the commodity support from the center, reflecting a high-degree of
    ownership and accountability at state levels.

    While this has yet to be quantified, decentralization has also helped to eliminate the barriers
    between malaria control and other health programs at district level (in line with the emerging
    Rural Health Missions) and promote integration while maintaining a strong technical focus.
    In addition, at a technical level, some higher performing states may be demonstrating a shift in
    disease epidemiology from endemic to epidemic transmission, and may be able to further
    reduce malaria cases to a nuisance level or at a level where the primary cause is due to
    population movements from states with higher-transmission.

    The program does, however, face some important challenges in the near future that the
    proposed Vector Borne Disease Control Project is aiming to address, namely: improved
    supervision and backstopping of lower performing states (such as Orissa, Jharkhand, and
    Bihar); strengthened process monitoring to assist in implementation quality improvements; the
    development of surveillance and treatment algorithms that are less labor intensive and more
    targeted; improvements in procurement arrangements and quality control, and a more robust



                                                 - 20 -

    response to the emergence of drug resistant malaria.

    It should be kept in mind that sustainability of malaria control efforts is and will always be
    crucial to avoid a significant increase in transmission and follow-on support from both the
    Government and the Bank is highly recommended. The collapse of eradication and control
    efforts in India (and in other parts of South and East Asia) in the late 1960's led to dramatic
    increases disease transmission and resulted in spikes of mortality and morbidity.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    A Vector Borne Disease Control Project (estimated at US$250 million), is expected to be
    presented to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors in Fiscal Year 2007. While the project
    is considered to be a follow-on project to the EMCP, as the majority of support will likely go
    to malaria control, the proposed operation expands the scope of implementation to include 4
    other vector borne diseases (Dengue, Kala Azar, Lymphatic Filariasis, Japanese Encephalitis),
    which, when combined with malaria, covers most states in the country.        Given this, there are
    three particular areas of concern that could negatively influence program sustainability:
    procurement arrangements, program management, and the role of partnerships with the
    private sector and NGOs. Procurement issues, as are noted elsewhere in this ICR,
    significantly delayed project implementation and may have led, in some cases, to the use of
    sub-standard commodities. The Bank and GoI are currently formulating strategies for
    strengthening procurement arrangements to improve both their efficiency and governance.
    The incorporation of four other vector borne diseases in to the program has increased the
    geographic, technical, and management scope of the program. The Government, in the new
    program, will now not only have to maintain and consolidate the gains made during the
    EMCP, but also find ways to increase central management capacity, further decentralize and
    improve capacities at state and district level, or ideally, both. Particular attention should be
    paid to the monitoring of implementation quality at district and sub-district levels. In addition,
    the development of a more robust monitoring and evaluation framework, which captures
    inputs and outcomes, in addition to impact, using targeted surveys and data triangulation will
    be important to put in place.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. While responsive to the Borrower's needs and consistent with the
1995 CAS, project preparation lasted for over 5 years and did not sufficiently consider the
implementation arrangements for the project, taking into account borrower capacity and political
realities as to what could be accomplished within the lifespan of one project. The technical
design of the project was sound, based on lessons learned from previous malaria control projects
and on extensive interaction with international organizations (e.g. WHO). However, the
Development Objectives were too ambitious given the project timeframe. The M&E framework
of the project was also poorly developed, thus leading to difficulties in assessing the progress and
the final outcome of the project.

The long project preparation mostly focused on technical issues and largely overlooked
implementation arrangements. The institutional and the procurement capacity of the MOHFW and


                                                  - 21 -

of NAMP were particularly underestimated, which contributed to stagnation of project
implementation for several years. It is also felt that the financial package was ab origine too large
to ensure full disbursement of the credit by the end of the project period.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Over 8 years of project implementation, 23 ISRs were
completed for the project. Problems in implementation (especially inefficiencies and delays in
procurement) were highlighted as early as 1998 and continuous advice was provided to the
borrower throughout the first few years of implementation. However, progress was slow and by
the mid term review 75% of the credit remained undisbursed. Simply put, the Bank did not
intervene strongly and early enough to correct the course of the project. The suspension of
the project, while welcome, occurred only at a very late stage (2002 - - 5 years into project
implementation).

The quality of the supervision improved in the years after the suspension when 28% of the credit
was cancelled and 9% reallocated to non-malaria activities. Three successive extensions allowed
the project to reach almost 100% disbursement (of the cancelled and reallocated amounts) by the
end of 2005. On the technical side a new Bank team followed up implementation more closely,
improved working relationships with the NAMP, and refocused the strategy towards the
achievement of the Development Objectives. Particularly helpful was that soon after the
"Unsatisfactory" mid-term review, a new Task Manager was assigned to the project, and a malaria
expert and an implementation specialist were both added to the team. However, it is also clear
that a number of indicators agreed in the Results Framework (see Annex 1) were not regularly
monitored and recorded. This is partly due to a number of the indicators being somewhat poorly
articulated, but also highlights a substantial weakness in the rigor of Bank supervision of agreed
targets.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The current system of rating performance in the Bank does not
accommodate moderate ratings and therefore the ICR team has been constrained to give a
Satisfactory rating here, in Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings), and in Annex 6. The
Bank's performance varied greatly throughout the project period and can be separated by pre and
post-suspension. Preparatory and initial supervisory activities during the first years of
implementation were unsatisfactory. However, from 2003 onwards the Bank's operational and
management team, with concomitant changes in client commitment, contributed to the project
turnaround. Thanks to improved supervision and better collaboration with the borrower, the
project largely met the Development Objectives. However, the reliance on personalities highlights
shortcomings in the project to evolve systems that are able to function irrespective of leadership
changes. Finally, the opportunity cost of how long it took to get the project on track despite clear
evidence of problems cannot be ignored, hence the less than satisfactory rating the team would
have preferred to assign.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory. The borrower was very considerate in the preparation of the
project and allowed ample time to refine its technical aspects, but without matching consideration



                                                 - 22 -

and preparation of institutional and procurement arrangements. Given the critical feature of
decentralized focus of service delivery in the project, state and district plans should have been in
place prior to project effectiveness. Similarly, the procurement capacity, and possible
procurement bottlenecks, did not seem to be carefully considered during project design given the
commodity heavy nature of the project.     Overall, the borrower miscalculated its own capacity to
adhere to the project deliverables, and the political realities within which the project existed as
issues such as procurement are not limited to particular projects but are largely endemic to the
system.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The GOI has been fully committed to reducing malaria
mortality and morbidity as demonstrated by the substantial financial support to the project (35%
of the total; 11% more than what was planned at the time of project design). In the first years of
implementation the GOI was slow in filling vacancies and in selecting a national procurement
agency, thus contributing to the delay in implementation. Despite recommendations provided by
the Bank team in numerous missions, in the first years of the project the GOI frequently failed to
act upon key agreements in the Aide-memoires. The change in leadership in 2003 was a key
determinant for the increased rate of disbursement, improved collaboration with the Bank team,
and for the final achievement of the many of the Development Objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory The NAMP evolved throughout the years from an institution focused
on malaria eradication to a directorate committed to an integrated approach to vector
management (now called the NVDCP, or National Vector Borne Disease Control Program). This
evolution itself contributed to the achievement of one of the Development Objectives and is
notable. The NVBDCP established a strong stewardship role through the production of
numerous guidelines, and the strengthening of planning and budgeting capacity both at state and
district level. The holding of regular meetings and reviews with State malaria control programs is
a significant accomplishment of the NVBDCP in the project, as is the creation of annual planning
templates. Supervision, however, would have benefited from increased decentralization. The
project would have benefited from greater emphasis on program management, but understaffing
and skills-mix hampered the Directorate's efforts in this sense. In the area of intersectoral
collaboration, the Directorate entered into partnership with other sectors but was not able to
translate the collaboration at the operational level.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The current system of rating performance in the Bank does not
accommodate moderate ratings and therefore the ICR team has been constrained to give a
Satisfactory rating here, in Section 2 (Principal Performance Ratings), and in Annex 6. The
borrower performance, similar to the Bank performance, varied throughout the project period and
can be separated by pre and post-suspension. As noted elsewhere, preparation was unsatisfactory
and implementation was extremely slow in the first years of the project. After 2003, new
leadership in the directorate and improved coordination with the Bank, contributed to project
realignment with Development Objectives. The opportunity cost of how long it took to get the
project on track despite clear evidence of problems cannot be ignored, hence the less than
satisfactory rating the team would have preferred to assign.



                                                 - 23 -

8. Lessons Learned

    From preparation to appraisal stage

1.       Be realistic in setting project objectives: With the benefit of hindsight, the overall
project was overambitious. The Development Objectives would have not been met without
several extensions of the project and the size of the credit was too large given the readiness of the
implementing structures. By the end of the project period (2002) only 30% of the credit (US$49.3
million) had been disbursed. During the extension period of the project (2003-2005) 28% of the
credit (US$46.5 million) was cancelled, and 9% (US$14.7 million) had to be directed to polio
activities not related to the original scope of the credit. Future projects should be more realistic in
setting objectives and in defining the credit size based on a more thoughtful analysis of the
institutional and financial capacity of the borrower.

2.       Match the project design to the institutional capacities of implementing agency. The
managerial capacity of the implementing agency was not given sufficient attention during project
design. The implementing agency's limitations in procurement, technical guidance and overall
management of the malaria program were not sufficiently addressed in the preparatory phase, thus
becoming the main bottleneck for the implementation of the project in the early years. While
activities such as procurement are endemic to the system, as opposed to being confined to this
particular project, it is possible that a more thoughtful bottleneck assessment would have allowed
the project to avoid some of the severe delays. A deeper analysis of the managerial capacity of
the implementing agency should be carried out in preparation for future operations, especially in
view of the expanding mandate of the VBDCP.

3.       Agree on results framework and M&E arrangements up-front. The monitoring and
evaluation framework was not sufficiently developed. Indicators in the PAD were not always
appropriate and means of verification (by the program and independently) were not explicit
enough. For future operations more attention should be given to the development of an M&E
framework that is much more extensive and realistic and surveillance that can be of greater use for
both the borrower and the Bank for recurrent program decision making. In addition, greater
attention should be paid to the resources and commitment required to make them work; one can
agree on the arrangement, but this does not mean that it will be implemented effectively. Progress
has already been made on this front thanks to the project, and future operations should build on a
significantly enhanced framework.

    During project implementation

1.       Do not wait too long, Task Teams and Management should be responsive to
changing needs of the project and restructure accordingly. Suspension and restructuring of
the project, though late, were crucial for the success of the project. They contributed to the
addressing of technical and financial issues and to eliciting the political support needed to
implement the project successfully. For future operations, the Bank should more closely
follow-up implementation and propose corrective actions in a timelier manner.




                                                  - 24 -

2.       Strong leadership is an important but not necessary condition for success. The
Borrower's leadership was a major determinant of the fate of the project. In the early years of
implementation the lack of borrower's leadership was a major cause for delays in operations.
After the restructuring, strengthened leadership by new appointees in the Ministry of Health and
in the National Anti-Malaria Program contributed substantially the program. Future operations
should give high priority to securing borrower's commitment at both political and technical level.
At the same time, Bank-supported projects cannot continue to give the excuse of lack of
borrower leadership forever. Project design must be strong enough such that core systems
function irrespective of leadership changes.

    Considerations for future efforts

1.      Nurturing ownership of states, which are at cutting edge of implementation, is
critical for program success.Ownership of the states is essential for program success. The
NAMP did adjust project design to enhance the role of the states. This trend should continue;
further strengthening, through more flexible budgets and a stronger results focus, taking into
consideration state needs and capacities, should be considered in future efforts. The
higher-performing states need more flexibility in program design within the overall national
program framework, while lower-performing states will require more intensive and longer-term
support.

2.      Identifying and adequately addressing procurement and supply chain logistics
up-front is critical for the success of the VBDCP. Risk-mitigation measures should be in place
to avoid the procurement delays faced in the project, perhaps through increased decentralization
of procurement management. An in-depth review of the reasons for the procurement delays
should be undertaken, along with a risk-mitigation plan so that future efforts do not suffer from
the severe bottlenecks faced in this project. For those delays related to Bank-clearance, future
Task Managers may wish to rely on expert consultants to ensure that procurement requests are in
line with accepted technical specifications. Finally, future monitoring and evaluation frameworks
should include more rigorous monitoring arrangements for inspecting the quality of
pharmaceuticals and commodities being procured, at both central and decentralized levels (as
increasingly, major procurements are taking place at state level).

3.      Strengthening program management at district and state levels is essential for
successful decentralization.Strengthening the VBDCP management and supervision at district
level is most critical for more effective decentralized planning, implementation and monitoring
that moves away from the current template-based and centrally-driven planning and review
process. This requires both short term (competency based training) and longer term approaches
(development of a public health cadre). Crucially important here is strengthening the ability of the
Borrower and Bank to determine if the trainings are appropriate, effective, and responsive to
changing project needs.

4.      Institutionalizing M&E arrangements through external reviews and data
triangulation. Program monitoring needs further strengthening by incorporating objectively
verifiable process and output indicators and establishing a system of data triangulation by experts



                                                 - 25 -

complemented by well targeted surveys and supportive supervision.

5.      Improve indoor-residual spraying quality and vector surveillance. Vector control
measures need to be better integrated and of higher quality, and there is an urgent need to
improve the vector surveillance. While indoor-spraying has become more targeted with project
support, the quality of spraying remains highly variable and casts doubt over the effectiveness
given the compromised implementation. While targeted spraying should continue, a much greater
focus on spray quality and community acceptance of spraying would greatly increase the impact
of this intervention. Finally, the move toward long-lasting insecticide treated bednet deployment
should further reduce the spraying burden to control the mosquito vector.

6.      Promoting innovative approaches to enhance community acceptance of ITNs. The
introduction of ITNs, albeit late, was one of the most successful aspects of the project. As their
roll-out expands, the role of NGOs, Social Marketing agencies, private sector and community
groups needs to be further explored and institutionalized. The private commercial sector and
NGOs, contain significant under-used capacity that, if harnessed, could improve program reach
and sustainability. For example, insecticide-treated mosquito nets could be sold in private outlets
with targeted subsidies provided through vouchers to be collected in public sector health facilities.
Not only would this expand net penetration, but also it would encourage a sustainable private
market for the malaria control commodities, and decrease the need for bulky centralized
procurements that have been plagued with problems. The recent initiative to introduce
long-lasting insecticidal nets (which do not require re-dipping in insecticide for 2-3 years), as
opposed to nets bundled with insecticide, is most welcome and should receive increased support.

7.      Monitoring therapeutic efficacy of anti malaria drugs and insecticide resistance
should be more rigorous. The challenge of chloroquine resistance should be better addressed
and the presumptive treatment with chloroquine for fever, particularly in low prevalence areas,
should be revisited. In large parts of the country, chloroquine continues to be an effective
antimalarial and remains the appropriate form of malaria treatment, especially for P. vivax malaria.
The effectiveness of chloroquine could be preserved by reducing the drug pressure by
rationalizing its use in districts with low endemicity where treatment algorithms may be used. The
monitoring of therapeutic efficacy of chloroquine and SP (where appropriate), quality control of
microscopy and rapid diagnostic kits and monitoring the quality of antimalarials should be
increasingly adopted by the program and the switch to ACTs, in areas of chloroquine resistance,
should continue and perhaps even be accelerated.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's own contribution to the ICR is generally in agreement with the Bank's overall
assessment of project performance, and is included in Annex 8. In addition, the Director of the
National Vector Borne Disease Control Program noted on June 29, 2006, "the ICR has been
examined and found in consonance with the project performance and reviews over the years."

The indicators the Borrower provided are included in Annex 1.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                 - 26 -

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

    ICR Team Members:

    Suprotik Basu (Public Health Specialist, Africa Region Human Development - - ICR Task
    Team Leader and Main Author)
    Emanuele Capobianco (Public Health Specialist, South Asia Region Human Development)
    Shilpa Challa (Consultant)
    Vijay Kumar (Health Specialist, Consultant)
    Roselind Hari (Team Assistant, South Asia Region Human Development)
    Silvia Albert (Team Assistant, South Asia Region Human Development)

    Daniel Kress (Senior Advisor and Health Economist, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) and
    Matthew Lynch (Senior Malaria Advisor, US Agency for International Development)
    participated in the ICR Mission and made important contributions that have been incorporated
    in this report.

    External comments provided by:

    Richard W. Steketee, MD, MPH
    Deputy Director, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-supported Malaria Control and
    Evaluation Partnership in Africa (MACEPA)
    Former Branch Chief (Malaria), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

    Though not an external reviewer, findings from the ICR Mission were discussed with Dr
    Lawrence Barat, a malaria expert who was part of the Bank team during project
    implementation from 2002-2005.

    World Bank comments provided by:

    Dr Anabela Abreu
    Sector Manager (Health, Nutrition, and Population)
    South Asia Region Human Development

    Professor Peter Berman
    Lead Economist (Health, Nutrition, and Population)
    South Asia Region Human Development

    Dr G.N.V. Ramana
    Senior Health Specialist
    South Asia Region Human Development




                                              - 27 -

Dr Enis Barris
Senior Public Health Specialist
Europe and Central Asia Region Human Development

Borrower:

Dr. P.L. Joshi
Director
National Vector Borne Disease Control Program
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Government of India




                                        - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                     1997            Midterm (2001)
 Indicator                        PAD Baseline          Target                     Actual
 Number of malaria cases
 reported to NMP
                       National          2,850,000     5% increase over         27% reduction over
                                                         baseline target baseline target (2,080,000)
                                                            (2,992,500)
                  EMCP States            1,172,872                              23% reduction over
                                                                          baseline target (907,527)
             Non-EMCP States             1,677,128                              30% reduction over
                                                                         baseline target (1,172,473)
 "Fatal Malaria" (i.e. P.
 falciparum) as a percentage
 of total malaria cases
                       National  Approximately 40%       Less than 50%                          48%
                  EMCP States                  60%       Less than 50%                          68%
 Percentage of total NMP
 budget (i.e IDA Credit plus
 regular budget) spent on
 non-indoor residual spray
 activites over the previous
 two fiscal years)
                       National                25%                 30%
                  EMCP States                   0%                 30%                          27%
 Target population covered                      1%                 20%                Not Available
 by appropriate IEC
 messages
 District Action Plans
 Number of District Action Plans                  0                   30               Not Available
           Community Meetings                     0                   30              Not Available
  60% of Allocated Funds have                     0                  30               Not Available
                    been spent
 Average time gap between         more that 14 days        7 to 14 days               Not Available
 collection of blood slide and
 recording of diagnosis at
 malaria laboratory
Number of MMNs distributed                  100,000             150,000              90,000
through public/voluntary
social marketing approaches
 Number of municipal                              3                   5              Not Applicable
 corporations that have
 adopted model anti-malaria
 bylaws in their state
 legislature
 Number of malaria                              0%                 10%                            0
 health-risk assessment
 studies launched by NMP
 Percentage of key targeted                     5%                 40%                Not Available



                                            - 29 -

staff at states/districts that
have acquired
epidemiological and
management skills
Number of multi-disciplinary                       1                        3     4 (Social Anthropologist,
staff hired at NMP                                                                  IEC Specialist, Finance
                                                                                  Officer and Procurement
                                                                                                    Officer)



                                  End of Project (2005)
Indicator                                 Target                     Actual or Latest
                                                                   Estimate/Comments
Number of malaria cases
reported to NMP
                       National   10% decrease from midterm     11% reduction from midterm
                                            target (2,693,250)       actual data (1,840,000)
                  EMCP States                                   25% reduction from midterm
                                                                       actual data (677,529)
             Non-EMCP States                                     1% reduction from midterm
                                                                     actual data (1,162,471)
"Fatal Malaria" (i.e. P.
falciparum) as a percentage
of total malaria cases
                       National    Stabilized at less than 50%                            48%
                  EMCP States      Stabilized at less than 50%                            64%
Percentage of total NMP
budget (i.e IDA Credit plus
regular budget) spent on
non-indoor residual spray
activites over the previous
two fiscal years)
                       National                            40%
                  EMCP States                              40%                            75%
Target population covered                                  50%                           100%
by appropriate IEC
messages                                                                 The McCann group
                                                                 conducted a review on past
                                                               IEC material drawn materials
                                                                 provided by the Directorate
                                                                    and the Centre for Media
                                                                      Studies. The principal
                                                                        observation was that
                                                                     exposure to printed IEC
                                                                 material is low (below 30%)
                                                                         with an exception in
                                                                 Chattisgarh at 48%. Recall
                                                                of content in posters is better
                                                               comparatively but very low in
                                                                    Bihar (7.2%), Jharkhand
                                                               (7.3%) and Orissa (2.3%) and
                                                                              Kolkata (3.5%)
District Action Plans                                          All 100 EMCP districts have



                                            - 30 -

                                                       submitted district action plans
                                                       in 2005. Data was not
                                                       available for the number of
                                                       community meetings or
                                                       percentage of funds by
                                                       district.
       Number of District Action                   70                              100
                           Plans
            Community Meetings                     70                   Not Available
  60% of Allocated Funds have                      70                   Not Available
                     been spent
 Average time gap between             less than 7 days                  Not Available
 collection of blood slide and
 recording of diagnosis at                                     Data from field visits in
 malaria laboratory                                      Gujurat and Orissa seem to
                                                       indicate that the average time
                                                            gap between collection of
                                                        blood slide and the recording
                                                          of diagnosis was more than
                                                                          seven days.
Number of MMNs distributed                     300,000                      3,775,000
through public/voluntary
social marketing approaches                              Mosquito nets were publicly
                                                          distributed and not through
                                                       conventional social marketing
                                                         mechanisms. Approximately
                                                                 4,400,000 MMNs are
                                                       expected to be procured over
                                                                           2005-2006.
 Number of municipal                               10                  Not Applicable
 corporations that have
 adopted model anti-malaria                             Project restructuring in 2001
 bylaws in their state                                              dropped the urban
 legislature                                                 component of the World
                                                          Bank Project but NVBDCP
                                                                continued to work with
                                                                 muncipalities and six
                                                                municipal corporations
                                                                (Brihan Mumbai, Navi
                                                          Mumbai, Goa, Chandigarh,
                                                            Chennai and Delhi ) have
                                                        adopted anti-malaria bylaws.
 Number of malaria                                50%                                  0
 health-risk assessment
 studies launched by NMP                                Approximately 17 operational
                                                        research studies were carried
                                                         out under the EMCP Project
                                                                 between 1999-2004.
 Percentage of key targeted                     100%                    Not Available
 staff at states/districts that
 have acquired                                                 Data from field visits in
 epidemiological and                                     Gujurat and Orissa seem to
 management skills                                        indicate that approximately
                                                        40-50% of staff are trained in
                                                                 epidemiological and



                                    - 31 -

                                                                         management skills. The
                                                                         Borrower ICR indicates
                                                                     approximately 6203 training
                                                                     courses were conducted and
                                                                     169,823 people were trained
                                                                    between 1997-2005 under the
                                                                                  EMCP project.
 Number of multi-disciplinary                                   5   3 (Social Anthropologist, IEC
 staff hired at NMP                                                       Specialist and Finance
                                                                                         Officer)


It is important to note that data were not collected regularly on a number of the quantitative
indicators in the above table. While this issue has been raised in Section 7 of the main text (Bank
and Borrower Performance), it is worth highlighting here once again. Future efforts should
include much more extensive and realistic development of agreed upon indicators and results
monitoring arrangements, backed up by the resources and commitment to make them work.




                                                - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2a. Project Costs and Financing by Component (in US$ equivalent)

                                                  Planned
                                                    IDA            Govt.      Total
 Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment     37,995,000     6,705,000  44,700,000
 Epidemic Response and Intersectoral                 16,575,000     2,925,000  19,500,000
 Collaboration
Institutional Strengthening                           29,835,000     5,265,000  35,100,000
Selective Vector Control                              69,020,000    12,180,000  81,200,000
Medicated Mosquito Nets                               19,890,000     3,510,000  23,400,000
                                                     173,315,000    30,585,000 203,900,000



                                                    Actual
                                                    IDA            Govt.           Total
 Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment  30,910,805      7,727,701        38,638,506
 Epidemic Response and Intersectoral              2,512,009       125,600          2,637,609
 Collaboration
Institutional Strengthening                       20,131,886      1,006,594        21,138,481
Selective Vector Control                          53,526,395      5,352,639        58,879,034
Medicated Mosquito Nets                           6,681,507       1,336,301        8,017,808
                                                  113,762,601     15,548,837       129,311,438




                                                     % of appraisal   Disbursement %
 Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment               86%              80%
 Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration             14%              95%
Institutional Strengthening                                     60%               95%
Selective Vector Control                                        73%               90%
Medicated Mosquito Nets                                         34%               80%
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment                 63%




Table 2b. Project Financing by Disbursement Category




                                               - 33 -

                                                 Allocated              Disbursed          Undisbursed
Category Category Description                          USD                    USD                   USD
Totals                                      127,978,972.51         122,674,935.26           5,304,037.25
1          CIVIL WORKS                                 0.00                   0.00                  0.00
2          EQUIP. DRUGS ETC                  22,235,487.03           20,278,543.96          1,956,943.07
3          INSECTICIDES                      44,013,215.22           43,629,910.94            383,304.28
4          MOSQUITO NETS                      6,636,016.95            6,381,706.35            254,310.60
5          SERVICES, ETC.                    36,571,661.61           33,338,012.89          3,233,648.72
6          INC. SALS. & OP. EXP               3,541,686.09            3,663,569.63           -121,883.54
7          UNALLOCATED                                 0.00                   0.00                  0.00
7(E)       POLIO ERADIC PART E               14,980,905.61           14,618,657.32            362,248.29
SA-A       SA FOR ALL CATEGS.                          0.00             764,534.18           -764,534.18

Total Malaria without Polio                                        108,056,277.94




Table 2c. Project Disbursements by State

State                       1997-1998   1998-1999         1999-2000          2000-2001
                          (Rs. 37.18 = (Rs. 42.08 = 1   (Rs. 43.33 = 1      (Rs. 45.70 = 1
                             1 USD)        USD)             USD)                USD)
Andhra Pradesh               102,205     636,431          1,673,321          4,215,011
Chhattisgarh                    0            0                0               594,420
Gujarat                      20,172      780,751          2,250,104           2,778,271
Jharkhand                    30,931      266,564           186,961            560,919
Madhya Pradesh               139,860     932,866          2,582,945           3,157,177
Maharashtra                  20,172      3,367,752        4,503,600           2,581,991
Orissa                       236,686     833,246          1,058,158           1,956,674
Rajasthan                    72,620      267,942          227,902             422,144
 TOTAL                       514,444     7,085,551        12,482,991         16,266,608



State                    2001-2002           2002-2003             2003-2004             2004-2005
                    (Rs. 47.73 = 1 USD) (Rs. 48.49 = 1 USD)   (Rs. 46.03 = 1 USD)    (Rs 44.94 = 1 USD)
Andhra Pradesh            1,045,380          766,488               531,327                540,061
Chhattisgarh              685,271            4,778,284             2,110,971             2,276,335
Gujarat                   2,720,239          1,324,046              646,926              1,054,172
Jharkhand                 454,662            2,087,399              289,941               701,200
Madhya Pradesh            3,080,704          3,923,819             1,478,123             1,127,548
Maharashtra               3,709,805          1,557,723              616,750              1,215,216
Orissa                    1,961,953          3,776,428             2,326,613             2,105,696
Rajasthan                 311,712            321,778              1,375,473               492,245
 TOTAL                   13,969,726          18,535,966            9,376,124             9,512,474



State                       Total
                    (Rs 44.35 = I USD)
Andhra Pradesh          10,325,277
Chhattisgarh            11,732,093
Gujarat                 12,839,598




                                               - 34 -

Jharkhand                         5,228,342
Madhya Pradesh                    18,133,830
Maharashtra                       18,458,076
Orissa                            15,824,336
Rajasthan                         4,108,926
 TOTAL                            96,650,479



 Table2d.ProjectCostsbyProcurementArrangements(inUS$millionequivalent)
                                                                Planned(PAD)                                               Actual

                                                                                                                Limited
                                                                               Consulting                     International       Consulting
 ProjectCosts                  ICB NCB      LimitedInternationalBidding  Other  Services  NBF Total  ICB NCB   Bidding      Other Services  NBF Total
 CivilWorks                     -     4.1                -                1.8      -       -   5.9    -   -        -         -       -       -   0
 Goods                         82.6   18.4              1.6               8.1             13.6 124.3 75.4 13.3    0.8       0.8                  90.3
 ConsultantServices             -      -                 -               51.8    19.8     2.2  73.8   -   -        -         -     1.62      -   1.62
 Miscellaneous                  -      -                 -                -        -       -    0     -   -        -         -       -       -   0
 Total                         82.6   22.5              1.6              61.7    19.8     15.8 204.0 75.4 13.3    0.8       0.8     1.6      0.0 91.9




Note: NBF - Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel confinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items)




                                                                       - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At the time of project closing, there were not sufficient data to carry out a detailed economic
analysis.




                                                - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1994                   3    Senior Anthropologist and
                                             Mission Leader (1); Senior
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Senior Public Health Specialist
                                             (1)

              03/1/1996                 6    Public Health Specialist and
                                             Mission Leader (1);Senior Public
                                             Health Physician (1);Senior
                                             Architect and Implementation
                                             Specialist (1);Implementation
                                             Specialist (1);Vector Control and
                                             Malaria Consultant (1);Social
                                             Participation Specialist
                                             (1);Economist and Planning
                                             Consultant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/01/1997                4    Public Health Specialist and
                                             Mission Leader (1);Senior
                                             Architect and
                                             Implementation Specialist
                                             (1);Procurement Advisor
                                             (1);Senior Public Health
                                             Physician (1)
              09/01/1997                7    Public Health Specialist and
                                             Mission Leader (1);Principal
                                             Health Specialist (1);Accounting
                                             and Management Specialist
                                             (1);Financial and
                                             Implementation Management
                                             System Specialist (1);Social
                                             Development Consultant
                                             (1);Procurement Officer
                                             (1);Disbursement Officer (1)

 Supervision
              06/10/1998                6    Public Health Specialist and          U               S
                                             Mission Leader (1); Public
                                             Health Specialist (4);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              12/22/1998                5    Mission Leader (1); Senior            U               S
                                             Public Health Specialist (2);
                                             Senior Procurement Specialist
                                             (1); Consultant (1)
              06/24/1999                4    Mission Leader (1); Public            S               S
                                             Health Specialist (2); Senior


                                              - 37 -

                      Procurement Specialist (1)
      04/30/2001    4 Public Health Specialist and         U    U
                      Mission leader (1); Senior Health
                      Specialist (1); Public Health
                      Specialist (1); Senior
                      Procurement Specialist (1)
      10/01/2001    4 Public Health Specialist and         U    U
                      Mission Leader (1); Public
                      Health Specialist (1); Consultant
                      (2)
      11/09/2002      Conflicting records                  S    U
      01/1/2004     9 Senior Health Specialist and         S    S
                      Mission Leader (1); Technical
                      Specialist-CDC Secondee (1);
                      Operations Officer (1); Senior
                      Financial Management Specialist
                      (1); Senior Financial Analyst (1);
                      Environment Specialist (1);
                      Team Assistant (1); Consultant
                      (2)
      05/31/2004    7 Team Leader (1); Operations          S    S
                      Officer (1); Technical
                      Specialist-CDC Secondee (1); Sr
                      Finance Management (1); Sr
                      Financial Analyst (1);
                      Environment Specialist (1);
                      Team Assistant (1)
      10/18/2004    9 Task Team Leader (1);                S    S
                      Operations Officer (1); Sr
                      Finance Mgmt Specl. (1); Sr
                      Financial Analyst (1);
                      Environment Specl. (1);
                      Consultant (1); WHO India
                      Office (1); ICT Consultant (1);
                      Team Assistant (1)
      02/01/2005    6 Senior Public Health Specialist      S    S
                      and Mission Leader (1); Senior
                      Public Health Specialist (1);
                      Public Health Specialist (1);
                      Senior Financial Management
                      Specialist (1); Procurement
                      Consultant (1); Senior
                      Economist-Gates Foundation (1);
                      Vector Control Expert-Gates
                      Foundation (1); Pharmaceutical
                      Specialist-Gates Foundation (1);
                      Team Assistant (1)

ICR
      12/05/2005    8 Public Health Specialist and         S    S
                      Mission Leader (1); Senior
                      Public Health Specialist (1);
                      Public Health Specialist (1);
                      Public Health



                      - 38 -

                                                   Consultant-Case
                                                   Management Specialist (1);
                                                   USAID Malaria Vector
                                                   Control Specialist (1); Gates
                                                   Foundation Senior
                                                   Economist (1); Consultant
                                                   (1); Team Assistant (1)

Not all ISRs/PSRs were located in the Bank's systems. The above table reflects the best available
data at the time of ICR finalization.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       378.60 (includes
                                                                 appr./negotiations)
  Appraisal/Negotiation           125 (identifcation
                                           to Board
                                       presentation)
  Supervision                                   156                           608.30
  ICR                                            12                            24.00
  Total                                         293                         1010.90
Note: Staff weeks were not calculated in the Bank prior to 2000.




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The current system of rating performance in the Bank does not accommodate ratings within
categories and therefore the ICR team has been constrained to give "Satisfactory" ratings in
this Annex. Please see the text in sections 7.1-7.7 for the ratings the team would have
preferred, if the system had allowed it, were:

1. Government Implementation Perforance and Bank Supervision have both been rated "
Moderately Satisfactory."
2. Overall Bank Performance and Overall Borrower Performance have both been rated
"Moderately Satisfactory."




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1) World Bank. Project Status Report (PSRs), 1997-2002.

2) World Bank. Aide-Memoires and Back to Office Reports.1997-2005.

3) World Bank. 1997. Project Appraisal Document: India Malaria Control Project.Report

   No. 16571-N1

4) Implementation Completion Report  Borrower's Contribution

   India Directorate of Vector Borne Disease Control Program (VBDCP), Dec. 2005

5) Graves, P. Malaria in India: Review of Current Situation. Control Methods and Surveillance

   for Mid-Term Review of World Bank Enhanced Malaria Control Project. World Bank. 2001

6) Mendis K, Sina BJ, Marchesini P, Carter R. The neglected burden of Plasmodium vivax

   malaria. Am J Trop Med Hyg 2001; 64:97-10.

7) Maartens P, Lisbeth H. Malaria on the Move: Human Population Movement and Malaria

   Transmission. Emerging Infectious Disease 2000; 6(2)

8) Sharma V.P., DDT: The fallen angel. Current Science 2003; 85(11) 1532-37

9) Sharma, V.P. 1996a. Re-emergence of malaria in India. Indian Journal of Medical

   Research, 103: 26-45.

10) Breman J, Alilio M.S., Mills A, Conquering the Intolerable Burden of Malaria: What's New,

   What's Needed: A Summary. Am J Trop Med Hyg 2004; 71(Suppl 2), pp. 1-15

11) Bockarie MJ, Dagoro H., Are insecticide treated bednets more protective against

   Plasmodium falciparum than Plasmodium vivax-infected mosquitoes? Malaria Journal 2006

   5:15.

12) India - Malaria Control Project : Environmental Assessment (Vol 1) Dec. 31, 1996

13) District and State Malaria Strategic Plans 2001-2003

14) State Audit Reports 2003-2004 for Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chattisgarh,

   Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh

15) Revised Project Implementation Plan to support extension request of the project, 2003-2005,

   National Anti-Malaria Program (NAMP), 2002




                                               - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                          ENHANCED MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                                1997-2005 (up to December, 05)

                                     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1       PREAMBLE

Malaria is an important public health problem in India. Malaria largely affects poor communities
and causes enormous economic losses in agriculture and industry. About 2 million malaria
positive cases and 1,000 deaths are reported annually due to malaria. Malaria is highly
endemic in seven North Eastern states; and in 100 predominantly tribal in Andhra Pradesh,
Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Rajasthan.
Pockets of high malaria incidence also exist in some other states. Control of malaria is a
formidable challenge in these areas due to ecological situation, remoteness, inaccessibility,
inadequate infrastructure, large vacancy of health personnel, diverse breeding sites and
presence of efficient vectors of malaria as well as predominance of tribal population with
peculiar socio-cultural characteristics and health seeking behaviour. While some areas have
also reported drug resistance, some areas have become resistant to available insecticides.

The Government of India accords high priority to malaria control. The World Bank support was
sought for predominantly tribal areas in eight states with high malaria disease burden. The
Enhanced Malaria Control Project (EMCP) with World Bank support became operational in
September 1997 in 1045 primary health centres (PHCs) in 100 districts in 8 states. These
areas were hard core with Annual Parasite Incidence of > 2.0 cases per 1,000 population, P.
falciparum (Pf) more than 30% of malaria cases and reported deaths due to malaria. In
addition, these areas were having more than 25% tribal population. 19 towns with >50,000
population were also identified for enhanced malaria control.

The medium term objectives of EMCP were to establish more effective malaria control
activities that used a (i) better mix of effective malaria control interventions responsive to local
needs;(ii) strengthened National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (formerly National
Anti Malaria Programme, NAMP) and modified orientation.

The long-term objectives were to reduce malaria morbidity and mortality, prevent economic
losses and ensure health equity.

EMCP was initially for a period of 5 years, i.e., from 1997 to 2003. In 2003, the project was
extended for 2 years, up to 2005.

Dropping of certain components:

       Works (Construction) The proposal for building for Dte. of NVBDCP was dropped due
to the lengthy process for getting clearance from different sectors, during the extended period
of the project.
       Urban malaria  19 towns with a population above 50,000 and API of more than 2 per
1000 population were included in the Project. No funds were separately earmarked. This


                                                - 43 -

component was dropped from the extended period of the Project as funds were being provided
for IEC, training activities in addition to larvicides to these towns from other budget heads, viz.,
EAC (Externally Aided Component) and DBS (Domestic Budget Support).

2        IMPACT OF EMCP ON MALARIA MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY

The Project was implemented to reach the goal of malaria control by improving access to
treatment, scaling up the use of integrated vector control measures including the use of
insecticide treated mosquito nets (ITNs), institutional strengthening through decentralization
and training, awareness generation and social mobilization through Information, Education and
Communication activities and inter-sectoral collaboration and intensification of monitoring and
evaluation through establishment of management information system as well as field visits.

The Project was slow to pick up due to procedural delays in strengthening NVBDCP, setting up
project management unit (PMU) and contracting professional agencies and consultants.
Recognizing the shortcomings and the urgency for speeding up the work, necessary
measures, with a special focus to achieve the project objectives were taken. A major step was
decentralization, with the formation of the State Malaria Control Societies (SMCS) in 8 states
and District Malaria Control Societies (DMCS) for better implementation of malaria control
activities and ownership of the programme. Funds were released directly to the Societies.
States/districts were encouraged to focus on developmental and services oriented activities.
Special attention was given to the micro action plans as well as improvement of quality of
services through capacity building, circulation of technical guidelines, frequent field visits and
regular review at senior levels.

EMCP has been relatively successful in bringing down malaria burden in the project areas by
prioritizing tribal areas with high disease burden for implementation of a mix of cost-effective
and sustainable strategies. In 1997, 1.19 million cases of malaria were reported from the
EMCP PHCs out of a total of 2.66 million cases in the country. The API at 6.12 was more than
double the national average of 2.86. The reported incidence steadily declined since 2000 to
0.65 million cases in 2004 registering a reduction of 45%, while the country as a whole
recorded 1.84 million cases. In 2005 (up to Oct.), 0.39 million cases and 164 deaths were
reported. The annual number of P. falciparum cases has dropped from 0.72 million in 1997 to
0.41 million in 2004, a reduction of 43%. However, certain EMCP areas continued to report a
high proportion of P. falciparum cases. Out of a total of 0.65 million Pf cases reported in 2004,
0.41 million (63%) have reported in EMCP areas. The proportion was around 70% at the
beginning of the Project in 1997. This is partly due to the fact that no significant change was
recorded in Jharkhand and Orissa. Reported deaths due to malaria declined from 539 in 1997
to 226 in 2004 (58%).

3        ACTIVITIES UNDER ENHANCED MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT

Early Diagnosis and Prompt Treatment (EDPT): Various measures have been taken to
improve early diagnosis and prompt treatment. These are: establishment of DDCs (Drug
Distribution Centres)/FTDs (Fever Treatment Depots)/MLVs (Malaria Link Volunteers) through
community involvement and ensuring availability of antimalarial drugs at village level. Till 2004,
0.5 million Drug Distribution Centres (DDCs)/Fever Treatment Depots (FTDs)/Malaria Link
Volunteers (MLVs) have been established in the country, up from 0.2 million. New initiatives
like use of Blister Combi Packs of chloroquine & primaquine and Rapid Diagnostic Kits (RDK)



                                                   - 44 -

have been introduced in difficult and inaccessible high endemic areas with poor health and
communication infrastructure. To facilitate early radical treatment to malaria positive cases,
especially in P. falciparum predominant areas, laboratories have been established in existing
sector level/new/additional PHCs. Contractual appointment and training of Lab. Technicians,
involvement of Private sector laboratories by providing performance-based incentives have
also been undertaken by some states.

Therapeutic efficacy studies are periodically conducted by Pf monitoring teams under
NVBDCP as well as RMRC, MRC to monitor the drug resistance. So far, 236 PHCs in 19
States/UTs      have    been      identified  as     Choloroquine    resistant    areas,   where
Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine          therapy     has      been       recommended.        Artesunate
Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine Combination Therapy (ACT) to treat the Chloroquine resistant
cases in place of SP is under introduction.

The Directorate of NVBDCP has initiated the process of Quality Assurance for Laboratory
Diagnosis. Draft guidelines on quality assurance for laboratory diagnosis have been
developed.

Integrated Vector Management:

       Indoor Residual Spray (IRS): IRS is being applied selectively in high-risk pockets.
Efforts were directed towards less reliance on insecticide and improved quality of the field
operations. The decline in targeted population under IRS in EMCP areas has increased from
18 to 38 percent. In the whole country, the population coverage with insecticide that used to be
more than 120 million population in 1980s to 1990s has been reduced to 63 million population
during 2002 and 42 million during 2004. The Directorate has issued Guidelines on IRS to the
States. Guidelines on uniform evaluation of insecticides have also been developed in
collaboration with Malaria Research Centre, Delhi.

       Insecticide Treated Bed Nets (ITNs): Use of ITNs as an alternative vector control
measure is being given adequate importance in the country including EMCP states. Guidelines
on use of bed nets have been developed and issued to States. The priority beneficiaries are
below poverty line population (BPL) in rural tribal areas. Schemes on bed net distribution,
insecticide impregnation of community owned bed nets have been developed for promotion of
ITNs through Public-Private Partnership initiative. Modalities for social marketing through
public-private partnership have been initiated. The Directorate of National Vector Borne
Disease Control Programme has introduced Synthetic Pyrethroid tablet formulation for
individual use. Guidelines on use of SP tablet formulation have also been developed.

       Larvivorous Fish: Use of larvivorous fish in identified water bodies is being promoted
under EMCP as cost-effective environment-friendly vector control measure. Guidelines on use
of larvivorus fish has been circulated to states.

Capacity Building: Training - Trained manpower development is an important component of
the project. The training activities under EMCP cover the entire country. Till 2004-05, a total of
6203 courses have been conducted in which 1,69,823 persons of different categories have
been trained. During 2005-06, 1801 training courses have been proposed for medical,
paramedical personnel, community volunteers in public and private sectors. In view of the
integration of prevention and control of Dengue, Filaria, Japanese Encephalitis and Kala-azar



                                               - 45 -

under NVBDCP, an integrated training curriculum has been developed for tertiary, secondary
and primary levels of health care delivery system, which has been circulated at all levels. In
2005-06, integrated training workshops of State Core Group of Trainers were held at tertiary
levels involving 477 faculties from 79 medical colleges for imparting training to the district level
Core Group of Trainers.

Behaviour Change Communication (BCC) and Inter-sectoral Convergence: Behaviour
Change Communication (BCC) campaign is being undertaken in the country as cross-cutting
intervention for enhancing community awareness, empowerment and mobilization as well as
building support among inter-sectoral partners. The BCC activities cover the entire country
throughout the year with intensive campaign before the onset of monsoon and transmission
season. In May 2005, the NVBDCP logo was launched to provide visibility and identity to the
Programme. On this occasion, the Anti Malaria Month campaign operational guide was
released. BCC activities have been quite successful in the country as reported by various
surveys, which revealed high levels of awareness regarding malaria, its causes and symptoms,
availability of treatment facilities available in their vicinity. Partnership with corporate sector,
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Faith Based Organizations (FBOs), Community
Based Organizations (CBOs) and Local self-government (Panchayat/Village Councils/Tribal
Councils, etc.), other Govt. Departments, Army and Paramilitary organizations, has been
initiated to provide uniformity in diagnosis, treatment and monitoring through a wider
programme base to maximize access to anti-malaria treatment and appropriate and locally
applicable vector control measures, scale up community mobilization. Guidelines on
Public-Private Partnership and workplace policy guidelines for control of malaria, Guide to
malaria prevention with special emphasis on ITNs, Guidebook on involvement of NGOs have
been circulated widely. An Inter Agency Theme Group on Vector Borne Diseases comprising
representatives from World Bank, WHO, UNDP, UNESCO, USAID, CDC (India) has been
constituted to consolidate the efforts of the Directorate in reducing the disease burden. The
first meeting of the Inter Agency Theme Group on Vector Borne Diseases was held in 2004.


Operational Research: Operational research is one of the key components of the project for
addressing the programme issues and effective implementation of various interventions in the
field. Professional institutions and NGOs following screening and evaluation of proposals by
experts were sanctioned for carrying out OR studies.

Monitoring and Evaluation: For monitoring and evaluation of programme implementation,
centre level officers are regularly visiting the states. During 2005 (up to November) 162
districts were visited by NVBDCP/ROH&FW and ICMR institutions (Malaria Research Centre &
Regional Medical Research Centre). States are regularly urged to take action on the
observations by officers. An independent evaluation of NVBDCP was also done by Sree Chitra
Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram in 2004.

Computerized Management Information System (CMIS): Tata Consultancy Services (TCS),
New Delhi had been commissioned for developing application software for web-based
computerized MIS for NVBDCP. The software has already been tested and full deployment of
requisite hardware, software is undergoing. Application administrators, Nodal Officers, other
personnel till district level (585 districts in 34 states) have been identified and trained.
Computerized MIS operational guidelines has been developed and circulated to states. It is
envisaged that reporting for monitoring and evaluation would be through web based CMIS
from January 2006.



                                                - 46 -

Procurement: The infrastructure developed, lessons learnt and the experience gained during
the project period was effectively utilized by rationalizing and restructuring the procurement
components keeping in view the ground conditions by dropping some activities like civil works
and urban component. Also, the procurement of insecticides have gradually declined over the
years and procurement of goods and services regarding strengthening of EDPT component
and alternative vector control measures like bed nets have been scaled up.

4        FINANCIAL DETAILS

The shift in activities, focus and strategy is also reflected in the changed allocation for different
components under the Project. The financing plan of the five-year Project was USD 164.8
million as IDA loan and USD 39 million as GOI contribution. During March 2003, i.e., at the
time of the extension of project USD 46.70 million were dropped from the project. Further USD
10 million has been diverted to Polio eradication programme. The total project loan is thus
USD 108.10 million. During the project period (1997 to 2005 - up to October) a total of INR
6198.60 million (USD 138.00 million) has been spent and a sum of INR 4080.10 million (USD
91.66 million) was reimbursed. The Govt. of India contribution for the Project period was
approx. 35%. The funds are being provided to the SMCS. Installments are released on receipt
of utilization certificates and/or annual audit reports from the Controller & Accountant General;
GoI empanelled firms of chartered Accountant. The SMCS releases the funds to the DMCS
and monitor the implementation of the action plans and utilization of the funds. The financial
audit at the central level is done by the Office of Comptroller General of India. Financial
Guidelines for SMCS/DMCS has been circulated to all Societies.

5        OBSERVATIONS OF WORLD BANK MISSION 2005

The project was reviewed by the World Bank mission from February 28-March 9, 2005 and
again August 16  September 1, 2005 and rated the progress implementation satisfactory.
During November 7-14, 2005, a Technical Mission reviewed the project and had discussions
with the Directorate of National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, MOH&FW.

6        ASSESSMENT OF WB BY DTE OF NVBDCP, MOH&FW (BORROWER)
The Directorate of NVBDCP appreciates the technical guidance and the response of the World
Bank for management of Enhanced Malaria Control Project right from its inception in 1997.
Continuous dialogue with the Task Managers positioned at the Delhi Headquarters facilitated
in identifying key issues which required attention and speeding up the requisite processes. The
various Bank Missions over the years reviewed the progress periodically and overall ratings
were satisfactory. The Mission leaders and the experts in the team provided analytical review
of project implementation at national, state, district levels as well as valuable inputs for next
steps, which helped in prioritization of project strategies and consolidation of efforts in low
performance areas. This eventually led to satisfactory impact on malaria morbidity and
mortality through strategy mix of improved out reach services and community participation,
integrated vector management by way of focused indoor residual spraying in selected high risk
areas in conjunction with scaling up the insecticide treated bed nets and Larvivorous fish as
major alternatives to chemical interventions, institutional strengthening and capacity building,
social   mobilization    through   intensified  behaviour    change    communication     campaign,
inter-sectoral convergence, establishment of MIS, decentralization of project activities. The
Bank was also supportive in disbursement of funds and the procurement processes.



                                                 - 47 -

- 48 -

