Report No. PIC3278
Project Name                             India-Proposed Malaria (@+) ...
Control Project
Region                                   South Asia
Sector                                   Health
Project ID                               INPA10511
Borrower                                 India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries                            States and Union Territories of
India
Implementing Agency                      Attention: Mrs. Shailaja
Chandra, Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare (MOHFW) and Dr. S. Lal,
Director, National Malaria
Eradication Program (NMEP),
22,Shamnath Marg, New Delhi, India,
Phone: +91-11-291-8576;
Fax: +91-11-251-8329
Projected Appraisal Date                 March 1997
Date this Document Prepared              April 9, 1997
Projected Board Date                     May 1997
1.      Project Objective. The medium-term objective of the IDA
credit is to create an enhanced and more effective malaria control
program (hereafter 'enhanced program') that: uses a better mix of
effective malaria control interventions; is responsive to local
needs; and strengthens the National Malaria Eradication Program
(NMEP) and modifies its orientation. In the long-term, the enhanced
program will reduce death, morbidity and social and economic losses
from malaria.
2.      Project Approach and Components. The IDA would finance
eighty-five percent, net of taxes, of the incremental requirement
of the enhanced program of the NMEP over five years. NMEP will
oversee investments throughout the entire country, based upon local
needs and district implementation plans, starting in certain rural
districts with high malaria burdens. The main target population
will be the more than 200 million people living in areas endemic
for malaria, especially 62 million people living in rural areas
with severe malaria. However, the benefits from reduced malaria
outbreaks, reduced environmental damage, and institutional
strengthening of NMEP will accrue to India's entire population of
930 million.
3.      The enhanced program will include five components: (a) the
component for integrated early detection and prompt treatment of
cases will improve the quality and accessibility of malaria
treatment at primary health units and in the private sector; (b)
the component for selective vector control will replace widespread



insecticide spraying with more targeted spraying, shift the
selection of insecticides toward more environmentally neutral
options and increase the use of non-insecticide vector control
methods such as larvivorous fish and biolarvicides; (c) the
preventive medicated mosquito nets component will produce and
distribute medicated mosquito nets and related products, including
social marketing of their use; (e) the component for epidemic
response and intersectoral collaboration will establish regional
cells to identify and control outbreaks and epidemics, monitor
resistance, conduct research, and build intersectoral
collaboration; and (e) the institutional strengthening component
will improve the management and planning skills of NMEP, state-and-
district level staff, create and disseminate an IEC program, and
conduct operational research. The project management unit will be
part of this component. IDA financing would include funds for
training and workshops, technical assistance, equipment, civil
works, medicated mosquito nets, vehicles, social marketing,
operational research studies, insecticides, drugs, and incremental
salaries.
5.      Environmental Aspects. Insecticide spraying is part of
malaria control strategies worldwide and will continue to be one in
the future in India and elsewhere. There is much precedent for the
World Bank financing insecticides as part of malaria control
programs. The Government of India prepared an environmental
assessment which covered the entire country. This assessment found
that: (a) the risk of increased death and morbidity from not using
insecticides exceeds their negative environmental impact,
especially among the rural poor; (b) the environmental risks from
insecticide use in agriculture far outweigh those of spraying for
malaria control; (c) in addition to cutting back on routine
spraying, improved training and logistics, better environmental
management, and diversifying to other biological agents may
minimize environmental damage. The enhanced program will
incorporate the guidelines from the environmental assessment into
the revised operational procedures, and will repeat the assessment
around the third year of the credit.
6.      Project Objective Categories. Poverty Aspects. The enhanced
program will benefit the rural poor, including tribal peoples, who
most commonly suffer malaria. Districts with the severe form of
malaria are more commonly rural, have lower literacy rates, have a
higher proportion of scheduled tribe populations and slightly more
women. The enhanced program will also save money on malaria
treatments, especially for poor households.
7.      Gender Issues: Malaria imposes an especially heavy burden on
women, who provide most of the household care and who also
contribute to agricultural work. Pregnant and lactating women are
especially susceptible to malaria because of their lower immunity.
Further, the enhanced program will provide some opportunities for
grassroots enterprises by supporting women's cooperatives to
manufacture and distribute medicated mosquito nets. The enhanced
program will use several gender-specific performance and monitoring
indicators.
-2-



8.      Indigenous Populations: The enhanced program has a tribal
strategy that helps ensure social and economic benefits received by
such groups are in harmony with their cultural practices. These
actions are consistent with the World Bank's Operational Directive
(OD) 4.2 on Indigenous Peoples, and include the use of local IEC
and mass awareness programs, the integration of traditional healers
and others as treatment providers, and efforts to institutionalize
on-going consideration of less advantaged groups, including social
assessment.
9.      Project Implementation. The NMEP will be the key executing
agency and will provide revolving funds to those districts with
completed district implementation plans and satisfactory
accounting, financial, and audit arrangements. The NMEP and the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) will be responsible
for project coordination. The project oversight will by done by
NMEP and MOHFW and the annual program development review, a partial
third-party expert review group.
10.     Project Financing. The total cost of the proposed project is
under discussion. Tentative estimates are between US$200 to US$210
million. IDA would finance about 85 percent of the project cost,
net of tax.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 11, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Assessment
The IDA gave the proposed credit a "B" rating for environmental
assessment because of its concern about the potentially high level
of indoor residual spraying. Insecticide spraying is part of
malaria control strategies worldwide and will continue to be part
of the strategy in India and elsewhere. There is much precedent
for the Bank financing insecticides as part of malaria control
programs: insecticides constituted thirteen, six and three percent
of spending in the Brazil, Sri Lanka, and Cambodia projects,
respectively. These projects, like the enhanced project, follow
WHO guidelines for insecticide use in public health programs.
The GOI contracted the National Environmental Engineering Research
Institute to conduct a detailed environmental assessment, in
consultation with NMEP, the MRC, the Ministry of Environment and
Forestry, and the WHO. Given the national scope of the credit, the
environmental assessment adopted a "sectoral" approach that
involves sector wide environmental analysis and supports
integration of environmental issues into long-term planning. The
sectoral approach obviates the need for an environmental assessment
in any district in which the IDA credit would spend resources, and
creates guidelines that are incorporated into normal procedures.
The environmental assessment fulfills OD 4.00 on Environmental
Assessment and Operational Procedure 4.09 on Pest Management.
The key results from the environmental assessment include the
following:
(a) All insecticides harm the environment to some extent. However,
the risk of increased death and morbidity from not using
insecticides exceeds their negative environmental impact,
especially among the rural poor.
(b) The environmental risks from insecticides use in agriculture
far outweigh those of spraying for malaria control.
(c) The proposed insecticide choices should be based upon efficacy,
cost and safety. Synthetic pyrethroids are the most effective and
safe, but cost substantially more than DDT. Other older
insecticides, such as BHC, are much more toxic and should be
eliminated as quickly as possible.
(d) In addition to cutting back on routine spraying, improved
training and logistics, better environmental management, and
diversifying to other biological agents may minimize environmental
damage. The environmental assessment included guidelines on better
environmental management.
As a result of the environmental assessment, the IDA credit design
was modified in the following ways:
(a) The IDA credit will help catalyze the phasing out of some
insecticides commonly used in India, such as BHC and DDT on both
- 4 -



demand and supply sides. Demand for these insecticides will drop
because of the Revised Insecticide Guidelines and the revised
operational procedures, better IEC, and alternative interventions.
To address the supply side, the enhanced program will include
feasibility studies for privatizing and diversifying the
manufacture of some insecticides.
(b) The IDA credit will finance another environmental assessment
around the third year of the IDA credit. The enhanced program will
also finance the costs of an on-going operational committee
comprising NMEP, MRC and other staff to discuss environmental
issues. The results of these meetings will be reported to the
annual program development review.
(c) Key parts of the guidelines on the environmental management
plan in the environmental assessment will become part of the
revised operational procedures, which will be created during the
first year review of implementation and which IDA will review. The
revised operational procedures will include efforts to improve the
quality of spraying, ensure the safety of spray workers, and reduce
spillage.
(d) The IDA credit will finance operational research studies
including studies related to environmental impact.
- 5 -



