Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2964 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Malaria Control Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 30, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2964 IN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1997, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project is 
designed to support the development of the Borrower’s existing malaria program into an 
enhanced and more diversified malaria control program, has requested the Association 
to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
certain activities under the Project shall be carried out by the States 
of the Borrower with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to each such State part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Core Project States” means the Project States (as hereinafter defined) 
of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Rajasthan 
collectively, and “Core Project State” means any one of them individually; 
(b)
“Project State” means any State (as hereinafter defined) in which the 
Project, or any part thereof, is carried out; 
(c)
“District” means an administrative unit or a municipal corporation within 
a Project State; 
(d)
“Enhanced Program” means the existing malaria program administered by the 
NMEP Directorate (as hereinafter defined) as developed by the objectives and program 
of actions and guidelines described in the National Policy Letter (as hereinafter 
defined) and the Revised Insecticide Guidelines (as hereinafter defined) into an 
enhanced and more diversified malaria control program;
Page  3
(e)
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(f)
“Letter of Undertaking” means the Letter of Undertaking to be executed 
and furnished to the Borrower by each of the Core Project States pursuant to Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“National Policy Letter” means the letter dated April 24, 1997 from the 
Borrower which, together with the Revised Insecticide Guidelines (as hereinafter 
defined), describes objectives and a program of actions and guidelines designed to 
transform the Borrower’s existing malaria program into the Enhanced Program, and 
declares the Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Enhanced Program 
nationally; 
(h)
“NMEP” means the National Malaria Eradication Program of the Borrower; 
(i)
“NMEP Directorate” means the directorate within the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Health and Family Welfare responsible for implementing the NMEP; 
(j)
“Revised Insecticide Guidelines” means the letter dated March 27, 1997 
from the Borrower which, together with the National Policy Letter, describes 
objectives and a program of actions and guidelines designed to transform the 
Borrower’s existing malaria program into the Enhanced Program, and declares the 
Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Enhanced Program nationally;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(l)
“State” means a State of India or a Union Territory, and includes any 
successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred nineteen million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 119,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March  31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2007 and ending May 1, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public 
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon any provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall cause each of the Core Project States to carry out its respective activities 
under the Project in accordance with a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the 
Association, to be executed and furnished to the Borrower by each Core Project State, 
and the provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limiting any of its obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower: (i) shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Project State to perform all the obligations of such Project State set forth in 
this Agreement and, in the case of Core Project States, its respective Letter of 
Undertaking; and (ii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (c) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause each Project State to carry out, the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to 
each Project State for such parts of the Project to be carried out by such Project 
State in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for development 
assistance to the States. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower and the Project States responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under this Agreement or, in the case of Core Project States, its respective Letter of 
Undertaking. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Project State will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement 
or, in the case of Core Project States, its respective Letter of Undertaking. 
(c)
The Borrower shall have waived or failed to enforce any of the provisions 
of any Letter of Undertaking. 
(d)
Any Letter of Undertaking shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated 
or repealed so as to adversely affect the Project. 
(e)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Enhanced Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (c) 
and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                   Amount of the
                  Credit Allocated
              % of
                   (Expressed in
          Expenditures
Category
             SDR Equivalent)
   to be Financed
(1)
Works
                      3,500,000
          90%
(2)
Furniture and Equipment,
 15,600,000
          100% of foreign
Vehicles, Drugs and 
   expenditures, 100%
Supplies, Biocides and
                 of local expen-
Larvivorous Fish
   ditures (ex-factory 
   cost) and 80% of 
   local 
expendi-
tures for other 
   items procured 
   locally
(3)
Insecticides
               41,900,000
          85%
(pyrethroids)
(4)
Medicated Mosquito
         4,600,000
          100% of foreign
Nets
                                     expenditures, 100%
                                     of local expen-
   ditures (ex-
   factory cost) and 
   80% of local 
   expenditures for 
   other 
items 
   procured 
locally
(5)
Malaria Link Functions,
 36,700,000
          100%
NGO services, publicity,
IEC, operational research,
training, workshops and 
fellowships and Consultants’
services
(6) 
Incremental costs for 
   7,400,000
          80% through June
 salaries, 
operating 
   30, 1999, expenses 
and maintenance
   through March 31,  
   1999 through June 
   30, 2001 and 25% 
   thereafter
(7)
Unallocated
                9,500,000
                     ___________
TOTAL
                     119,200,000 
                     ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental costs” means the cost of additional staff employed 
for the purposes of the Project, the cost of office expenses and spraying operations 
under the Project, the cost of operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment 
purchased under the Project and the cost of operation and maintenance of facilities 
Page  9
constructed under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,600,000, may 
be made in respect of Categories (2) through (6) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 30, 1996; and
(b)
expenditures (i) incurred in or by any State which is not a Project State 
as such term is defined in this Agreement; and (ii) incurred in or by any of the Core 
Project States unless it shall first have executed and delivered to the Borrower a 
Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) incremental costs; 
(b) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in the 
case of firms and $50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals; (c) contracts for 
goods and works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for medicated 
mosquito nets not exceeding $300,000 each; and (e) contracts for vehicles and 
insecticides (pyrethroids) not exceeding $100,000 each; under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing morbidity and 
mortality from malaria through the development of the Borrower’s existing National 
Malaria Eradication Program into the Enhanced Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Integrated Early Detection and Prompt Treatment
1.
Improving the quality and accessibility of first-level health units, through: 
(a) providing equipment, drugs and diagnosis and treatment guidelines to existing 
fever treatment depots (FTDs) and drug distribution centers (DDCs) in selected 
Districts; (b) establishing at least one FTD or DDC in selected villages which 
currently lack a FTD or DDC; (c) establishing a system of malaria link functions 
(MLFs) to transfer supplies and information between primary health care facilities 
(PHCFs) and FTDs and DDCs; and (d) training in the diagnosis, treatment and referral 
of malaria cases for FTD and DDC workers, MLFs and multipurpose workers (MPWs).
2.
Improving the speed and accuracy with which malaria cases are diagnosed, 
through: (a) providing equipment, supplies, and laboratory training to selected PHCFs 
and district hospitals; (b) making dipstick tests available on the market for use in 
selected private clinics; (c) training in blood slide collection for FTD and DDC 
workers, MPWs and MLFs; and (d) training and guidelines for private practitioners.
3.
Improving the treatment of severe and complicated malaria cases, through: (a) 
providing equipment to selected PHCFs and district hospitals; (b) providing case 
management guidelines to private practitioners; and (c) training for PHCF medical 
officers and their technical assistants. 4.
Developing and implementing a system for 
collecting and sharing data on malaria cases diagnosed and treated.
Part B:
Selective Vector Control 
1.
Selective Vector Control and Diversification
a.
Utilizing insecticides for the purpose of malaria control in a more 
selective manner and improving the cost-effectiveness and acceptability of insecticide 
spraying, through the provision of technical and other assistance and training, 
equipment and supplies to: (i) develop epidemiological methods to select high 
Page  10
incidence villages for spraying; (ii) improve epidemiological record-keeping; (iii) 
select the least expensive, effective insecticide for each area to be sprayed; and 
(iv) define criteria for determining the efficacy of spraying and for the withdrawal 
of insecticide spraying.
b.
Strengthening non-insecticide vector control activities, through the 
provision of technical and other assistance and training, equipment and supplies to: 
(i) build larvivorous fish hatcheries and improve the system for distribution and 
monitoring of such fish; and (ii) increase the use of bio-larvicides, especially in 
urban areas, based on local operational research and efficacy.
2.
Medicated Mosquito Net Program
a.
Assessing in selected communities the acceptability, sustainability, 
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of medicated mosquito nets (MMNs) for the prevention 
of malaria, including Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and social marketing 
agencies in the distribution and testing of such nets.
b.
(i) The distribution and re-treatment of MMNs in those areas in which 
they have been found effective, involving public, private and voluntary community 
organizations in such distribution and re-treatment, (ii) the provision of small 
grants to local cooperatives and grassroots groups to pursue the manufacture and 
distribution of MMNs, and (iii) the refinement of the MMN strategy through utilization 
of the results of the first and second annual program development reviews carried out 
under Part D(1)(e) of the Project, while avoiding widespread public distribution of 
MMNs prior to such reviews being undertaken.
Part C:
Epidemic Response and Intersectoral Collaboration 
1.
Epidemic Planning and Rapid Response
a.
Developing, testing and implementing a geographic information system, 
including research on ecological, climatic and socioeconomic risk factors for malaria.
b.
Developing and distributing guidelines for reporting and responding to 
early indicators of a malaria epidemic.
c.
Strengthening regional offices to: (i) coordinate control efforts in the 
event of a malaria epidemic; and (ii) assist the Project States in carrying out 
suitable prevention activities. 
2.
Intersectoral Collaboration
a.
Distributing malaria prevention and treatment guidelines to relevant 
ministries/departments of the Borrower, institutions, industries and development 
projects.
b.
Promoting the adoption of model by-laws and other public health efforts 
at the municipal and state levels to ensure that development projects do not create 
conditions that cause malaria, and to treat malaria when it occurs.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Institutional Strengthening
a.
Developing and implementing an integrated Information, Education and 
Communication (IEC) program for community leaders, local health-care workers, and 
non-health personnel from private and voluntary sectors, such program to include 
professionally-created mass media messages and local folk media approaches for 
promoting prevention and early detection and treatment of malaria.
b.
In-service training for personnel involved in malaria control activities 
and foreign fellowships and study tours.
c.
Developing, piloting and expanding a Management Information System for 
the NMEP Directorate.
Page  11
d.
Renovating and upgrading the NMEP Directorate’s existing office space and 
constructing new NMEP Directorate facilities.
e.
Conducting annual program development reviews of the Enhanced Program.
f.
Constructing a new research facility for the Borrower’s Malaria Research 
Center.
g.
Identifying priority items for operational research, and executing the 
projects identified. 
h.
Institutionalizing a mechanism for periodic reviews of environmental 
issues, through support for (i) the functioning of inter-agency efforts and working 
groups, and (ii) a repeat environmental assessment of the Enhanced Program.
i.
An independent review of the technical, administrative and operational 
aspects of the Enhanced Program.
j.
Developing and distributing a malaria control advocacy package to 
national and state-level opinion leaders.
k.
Health risk assessment studies, workshops and related project preparation 
activities.
l.
Strengthening the capabilities of the NMEP Directorate to supervise the 
Enhanced Program, including the provision of technical assistance, training in 
logistics management and information systems, and necessary equipment and supplies.
m.
The provision of resources to a unit within the NMEP Directorate which 
will be responsible for gathering and processing data for the annual program 
development reviews.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Dipsticks and artemesine injection drugs estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, 
which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
Page  12
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Medicated mosquito nets estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, (b) furniture, equipment, laboratory and other supplies, drugs, biocides and 
larvivorous fish estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,500,000 equivalent, and (c) works estimated to cost 
more than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Medicated mosquito nets estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, furniture, 
equipment, laboratory and other supplies, drugs, biocides and larvivorous fish 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, insecticides (pyrethroids) estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,800,000 equivalent, and vehicles estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
overall aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent, may:
(a)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000; or
(c)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$300,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $300,000 
equivalent, (iii) each contract for dipsticks and artemesine injection drugs estimated 
to cost more than $300,000 equivalent, (iv) the first contract each for dipsticks and 
artemesine injection drugs estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less, (v) 
each contract for medicated mosquito nets estimated to cost more than $300,000 
equivalent, (vi) the first three contracts for goods (furniture, equipment, laboratory 
and other supplies, drugs, biocides, larvivorous fish) estimated to cost more than 
Page  13
$50,000 equivalent each but less than $300,000 equivalent each, and (vii) each 
contract for vehicles and insecticides (pyrethroids) estimated to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of NGOs and consultants for services for IEC, civil works and 
management information systems estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for publicity, training and workshops, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $14,200,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines and Project-specific 
procedures agreed with the Association. 
2.
Non-Governmental Organizations
Services for operational research activities and NGO contracts which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $13,500,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines and Project-specific 
procedures agreed with the Association. 
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by insecticide spray workers, individual consultants and 
individual researchers which are estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $18,100,000 equivalent, shall be in 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.19 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for institutional strengthening, epidemic planning and intersectoral 
collaboration shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  14
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the National Policy 
Letter, the Revised Insecticide Guidelines and the Project Implementation Plan agreed 
with the Association (PIP). 
Review of the Enhanced Program 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that an independent review of the technical, 
administrative and operational aspects of the Enhanced Program is completed by 
December 15, 2000.
Enhanced Program Management 
3.
The Borrower shall make provision for three dedicated positions within the NMEP 
Directorate for staff with skills in finance and administration, social assessment and 
IEC, and shall appoint staff to fill such positions by April 1, 2000.  By April 1, 
1998 the Borrower shall change the name of the NMEP Directorate to “Directorate of 
National Malaria Action Program” or such other name reflective of the policies and 
objectives of the Enhanced Program and not reflecting eradication.  The Borrower shall 
take all necessary actions promptly to inform concerned parties of such name change.   
4.
The Borrower shall cause the Enhanced Program to be adequately staffed and 
funded, and shall maintain such staff and funding for the duration of the Project.  By 
April 15, 1998 the Borrower shall provide to the Association a list of the Enhanced 
Program staff, such list to summarize the job descriptions of each staff member.  The 
Borrower shall take appropriate measures to maintain continuity of key staff of the 
Enhanced Program.  
Page  15
Letters of Undertaking
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Letter of Undertaking from 
each Core Project State shall include, inter alia, the following provisions:
(a)
Each Core Project State shall agree that procurement of any goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit under this Agreement shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Each Core Project State shall agree that the Borrower and the Association 
may from time to time inspect the goods, works and services under the Project 
including all records and documents relating thereto.
(c)
Each Core Project State shall agree to assume and undertake the 
obligations set forth in the General Conditions, insofar as they are applicable to its 
activities under the Project (such relevant Sections of the General Conditions are 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively)).
(d)
Each Core Project State shall agree to comply and assist the Borrower in 
complying with the financial covenants prescribed by Article IV of this Agreement.
(e)
Each Core Project State shall acknowledge that the Borrower may suspend 
or terminate its right to use the proceeds of the Credit made available under this 
Agreement upon its failure to perform any obligations under its Letter of Undertaking 
or upon notice by the Association that it intends to exercise its remedies under 
Article V of this Agreement.
(f)
Each Core Project State shall agree promptly to inform the Borrower and 
the Association of any condition which may interfere with the progress of its 
activities under the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit under 
this Agreement, or the performance of its obligations under its Letter of Undertaking. 
Assurances in Respect of Project States other than the Core Project States 
6.
Proceeds of the Credit and goods and services purchased under the Project shall 
be provided to Project States, other than the Core Project States (“Non-Core Project 
States”), only upon the NMEP Directorate’s determination of demonstrable need, such 
determination to be based on appropriate public health practices. Within 30 days of 
such proceeds or goods and services having been made available to a Non-Core Project 
State, the NMEP Directorate shall provide to the Borrower, with a copy to the 
Association, information in respect of the provision of such proceeds and/or resources 
under the Project and its statement of confirmation that such proceeds and/or 
resources shall be used in accordance with the objectives of the Project, and that the 
Non-Core Project States receiving such proceeds and resources shall follow the 
procurement, audit and all other applicable provisions stipulated in this Development 
Credit Agreement. 
Insecticide Use 
7.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Project States to, use insecticides for 
malaria control in accordance with the Borrower’s Revised Insecticide Guidelines, 
which Guidelines may be revised from time to time with the mutual agreement of the 
Borrower and the Association. 
Annual Program Development Reviews 
8.
The Borrower shall carry out Annual Program Development Reviews (APDRs) 
conducted in accordance with Terms of Reference agreed with the Association.  The APDR 
Committee shall meet not less than annually, and no later than October 31 of each 
year. 
Medicated Mosquito Nets 
Page  16
9.
The Borrower shall select, and shall cause Project States to select, 
non-governmental organizations, social marketing agencies and specialized agencies and 
institutes of the Borrower to produce, market and distribute medicated mosquito nets 
in accordance with the procedures specified in the PIP.  In accordance with the PIP, 
the Borrower shall pursue, where appropriate, recovery of the costs of the medicated 
mosquito nets distributed under the Project.
Guidelines for District Implementation Plans
10.
The NMEP Directorate shall take all necessary measures to cause District 
Implementation Plans developed in accordance with the Guidelines for District 
Implementation Plans noted in the PIP to be adopted and implemented in all Districts 
in the Core Project States in accordance with the following schedule:  15 percent of 
the total number of District Implementation Plans shall be completed and approved by 
the NMEP Directorate by December 15, 1997; 50 percent by June 30, 1998 and 100 percent 
by June 30, 1999.
Environmental Assessments 
11.
The NMEP Directorate shall liaise with concerned authorities in respect of major 
development projects which may have a propensity to create malariogenic conditions, 
with a view to contain the health hazards of such projects. 
State Malaria Coordinators and District Malaria Officers 
12.
The Borrower shall ensure that State Malaria Coordinators for the Core Project 
States are appointed by December 15, 1997.  The Borrower shall take appropriate 
measures to promote continuity of key staff at the State and District levels, 
including Malaria Officers trained under the Enhanced Program.
Operational Research 
13.
Operational Research under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with 
the procedures specified in the PIP.  The identification of research topics and the 
implementation agencies to carry out such research shall be accomplished through a 
peer-review process.  Selection of implementation agencies to carry out such research 
shall follow principles of transparency and competition.  Relevant malaria research 
which receives international peer-reviewed funding shall be eligible for additional 
funding from the Borrower.
Model By-laws for Urban Malaria Control 
14.
The Borrower shall use its best efforts to encourage all States to adopt the 
model by-law for urban malaria control contained in the PIP, with the goal of having 
such model by-law adopted by at least 15 States by April 30, 2000.  
NMEP Operational Guidelines 
15.
By July 31, 1999, the NMEP Directorate shall review and update its existing 
Operational Guidelines to reflect the strategies and norms of the Enhanced Program. 
Supply of Information
16.
By June 30 of each year, the Borrower shall provide to the Association summary 
results of the previous annual meeting of its existing inter-ministerial Working Group 
on DDT Use in Public Health.  In addition, the NMEP Directorate shall supply program 
expenditure data on insecticides, biolarvicides and larvivorous fishes, and the annual 
budgets and expenditures of the NMEP. 
National Task Force on Intersectoral Issues in Malaria 
17.
The Borrower shall ensure that by April 30, 1998 at least two representatives 
from industry are members of its interministerial National Task Force on Intersectoral 
Issues in Malaria, and shall further ensure that such Task Force meets at least once a 
year. 
Tribal Strategy 
Page  17
18.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project State to, implement the 
Enhanced Program in any tribal areas (as designated by such Project State in 
accordance with applicable laws) in accordance with the Tribal Strategy noted in the 
PIP, which Strategy was developed with the participation of the beneficiaries.
Monitoring and Evaluation
19.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November  30 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 15 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 14,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  18
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Page  19
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
