Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22945-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.10 MILLION
(US$18.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
COTTON SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
DECEMBER 18, 2001
Rural Development 2
Country Department 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
1 CFA = US$0.00133
US$1 = CFA Franc 750
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD             French Development Agency
(Agence Franqaise de Developpement)
AIC             Interprofessional Cotton Association
(Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton)
APEB            Association of Private Ginners
(Association Privee des Egreneurs du Benin)
BAE             National Environment Agency
BSCC            Baseline Cotton Sector Survey
CAA             Government Foreign Exchange Services
(Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement)
CAGIA           Input Pocurement and Management Cooperative
(Coop&ative d'Approvisionnement et de Gestion des Intrants Agricoles)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CFA             CFA Francs
CNAC            National Accreditation and Control Committee
(Comite National d'Agrement et de Contr6le)
CNMP            National Tender Board
(Commission Nationale des March6s Publics)
COD             Privatization Office
(Cellules des Operations de Denationalisation)
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSP             Project Monitoring Unit
(Cellule de Suivi des Projets)
CSPR            Input Credit Recovery and Payment Agency
(Centrale de S&urisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement)
DAC             Direction of Contracts and Agreements
DAF             Director of Administration and Finance
DC              Central Region Department
(Department Centre)
DN              Nothem Region Department
(Department Nord)
DGI             Directorate General of Inspection
(Direction Generale de lI'nspection)
DIT             Directorate of Information and Technology
(Direction Information et Technologie)
DOC             Directorate Operations Coordination
DPQC            Directorate of Quality Promotion and Controle
(Direction de la Promotion de la Qualite et du Contr6le)
DRDP            Declaration of Rural Development Policy
EA              Environmental Assessment
EMP             Environmental Mitigation Plan
FUPRO           Federation of Producer Unions
(Fe&dations des Unions de Producteurs)
GEF             Global Environment Facility



GOB             Government of Benin
GPDIA           Association of Private Input Traders
(Groupement Prive des Distributeurs et Importateurs dI'ntrants Agricoles)
GPN             General Procurement Notice
GV              Village-level Producer Associations
(Groupements Villageois)
IDA             International Development Association
IEG             Impact Evaluation Guide
INM             Integrated Nutrient Management
IPM             Integrated Pest Management
LCS             Least Cost Selection
MAEP            Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries
MDR             Ministry of Rural Development
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Nongovernmental Organization
OMG             Project Monitoring Guide
OPA             Agricultural Producer Organizations
PIM             Project Implemnentation Manual
PMP             Pest Management Plan
PMR             Project Monitoring Report
PA              Project Agreement
PO              Producer Organizations
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PPN             Promotional Procurement Notice
PSC             Project Steering Committee
PSR             Project Supervision Report
QCBS            Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RCF             Seed-cotton and Fiber Research
(Recherche Coton Fibres)
SA              Special Account
SDD             Social Dimension of Development
SFB             Selection under a Fixed-Budget
SOE             Statement of Expenses
SONAPRA         National Company for Agricultural Promotion
(Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole)
SPN             Special Procurement Notice
SPV             Extension services
(Service Polyvalents de Vulgarisation)
ST              Technical Secretariat
STSP            Sector-wide Technical Services Programs
UDP             Department-level Producer Unions
(Unions Departementales de Producteurs)
UN              United Nations
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
URCF            Seed-Cotton and Fiber Research Center
(Unite Recherche Coton Fibres)
USPP            Sous-Prefecture-level Producer Unions
(Unions Sous-prefecturales des Producteurs)
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:       Ousmane Badiane






BENIN
COTTON SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          7
3. Benefits and target population                                                         7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                   12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              13
2. Financial                                                                             14
3. Technical                                                                             14
4. Institutional                                                                         14
5. Environrental                                                                         15
6. Social                                                                                17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        19



2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            20
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    39
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       40
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   52
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             53
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment                                                       55
Annex 12: Financial Management Action Plan                                                65
MAP(S)
IBRD 31627
TASK CODE: P072503



BENIN
Cotton Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: December 18, 2001                           Team Leader: Ousmane Badiane
Country Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh             Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P072503                               Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance   Theme(s):
Loan (SIM)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit      ] Grant    [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): (US$18.0 Million)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.30           0.00          0.30
IDA                                                            4.62          13.38          18.00
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                           0.40           5.50          5.90
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                         5.32          18.88         24.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BENIN
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES (MAEP)
Direction of Programming and Planning, (MAEP)
Address: 03 BP 2900
Contact Person: Soule Manigui, Director of Planning, MAEP, Cotonou
Tel: (229) 30-04-96          Fax: (229) 30-03-26           Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Association Interprofessionelle du Coton
Address: PO BOX 061 BP 18
Contact Person: Patrice D. Gbegbelegbe, Permanent Secretary, Technical Secretariat of AIC
Tel: (229) 33-97-16          Fax: (229) 33-97-15           Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual    0.50        5.50       6.00       6.00
Cumulative    0.50       6.00      12.00      18.00
Project implementation period: 2002-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
XSD PAD Fon A.. Mth 20W0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The cotton sector remains the main engine of Benin's rural as well as formal economy, providing the bulk
of primary production and domestic exports. The sector experienced very rapid growth over the past 30
years, both absolutely as well as compared to other cotton growing countries. Yields have grown by 50
percent and output has gone up six-fold. Despite this relative growth, there remain significant pockets of
poverty, particularly in the cotton growing areas. The geographical distribution of absolute poverty
indicates that cotton areas are the most affected as they account for up to 40 percent of the total poverty
incidence. The rest of the agricultural sector has not done well, either. The average annual growth in the
non-cotton sectors is estimated at 2.7 percent compared to 5 percent in Ghana and 4 percent in Burkina
Faso during this decade.
While government has heavily focused its development efforts on the cotton sector at the expense of other
sectors, it appears that growth in the former has not yet made significant impact on people's livelihood. The
extent of poverty in the faster growing cotton sector is also testimony to the fact that mere expansion in
agricultural output is not a sufficient condition for poverty reduction, which requires higher productivity
and employment of resources that poor people depend on for their livelihood. Accordingly, the main
purpose of Benin Cotton Sector Reform Project is to help the government achieve its strategic goal of
fostering broad-based growth in Benin's rural sector and thereby increasing per capita rural incomes and
reducing poverty. To achieve that objective, the project seeks to provide an answer to the main question
facing Benin's cotton sector, as far as the goal of poverty reduction is concemed, which is: (i) how to
further expand cotton cultivation, while (ii) spreading the productivity gains and income increases to a
larger part of cotton producers, and (iii) generating income multiplier effects within and outside the cotton
sector and the rest of the rural economy.
As in other cotton producing countries in West and Central Africa, the cotton sector in Benin has long been
under the control of a state-owned company which operated under a monopoly system which for many
years has excluded private operators from activities ranging from marketing and ginning of seed cotton, the
export of lint and cottonseed, the importation and distribution of modem inputs, to the provision of services
to cotton growers such as extension, credit, and transport. The tightly controlled system succeeded in
rapidly expanding cotton production but has been plagued by inefficiencies, a lack of transparency, and
other critical weaknesses which must be dealt with in order to increase its contribution to poverty
alleviation and national economic growth. In particular, the monopoly system has created vast opportunities
for rent seeking and mismanagement, generally at the cost of farmers and the economy. The resulting
inefficiencies have led to frequent bankruptcies and bailouts of the industry in Benin as in other countries in
the region. However, in contrast to other countries, Benin, has made significant progress in introducing
far-reaching reforms, which the government initiated in the late eighties to early nineties. It has since taken
measures to open up the ginning sector to private operators, which today control about 50 percent of the
country's ginning capacity. It has recently lifted the monopoly of the national cotton company, SONAPRA
(Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole), over the marketing of seed-cotton and introduced measures
to increase competition in the input sector. The government is currently preparing the privatization of the
ginning activities of the company.
The privatization of SONAPRA's ginning operations and its withdrawal from the sector's productive
activities does not only imply the need to carefully manage the process of transition to a competitive
system. It also means that the private sector, including producer organizations, has to take over all the
technical support services that the company used to provide as part of the monopoly system, including the
- 2 -



facilitation of input credit recovery. The purpose of the proposed project is to facilitate the transition to a
competitive system by providing the necessary support to private sector operators and their institutions to
fill the void left by the privatization of SONAPRA's ginning activities. The project would be implemented
over a period of four (4) years. Its focus would be on (a) the provision of technical and financial assistance
to the two institutions that are to carry the transition process, primarily the Association Interprofessionnelle
du Coton (AIC) and the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPR), and (b)
building the institutional and technical capacities of Producer Organizations (PO). The project development
objective is to effect a successful transition from the current monopolistic and centrally administered
system to a more competitive cotton sector and, hence, greater efficiency and productivity in the sector.
The project would strengthen the competitiveness of Benin's competitiveness in international export
markets, allowing the country to raise its market share and benefit from the expected expansion of world
cotton demand. Ultimately, the increase in productivity and competitiveness should lead to higher incomes
in the sector. It is also expected that the increase in transparency and efficiency would lead to a better
distribution of incomes throughout the sector, with positive spill-over effects in other productive sectors
both within and outside of the rural sector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The indicators of progress towards the achievement of the above specific objectives would document the
effectiveness of project activities in raising productivity and incomes in the cotton sector and contributing
to the objective of reducing poverty. More specifically, the project would have helped establish an effective
input credit recovery system and allowed a successful take over by the private sector of the responsibility
over primary marketing. Furthermore, it would have strengthened the technical and commercial capacities
of producer organizations (POs) and enabled full private sector participation in the planning,
implementation, and monitoring of agricultural services delivery. The key project performance indicators
would include: (i) the increase in seed-cotton yield levels; (ii) the increase in overall sector incomes; (iii)
the change in the share of export price going to producers; (iv) the success of the private sector in meeting
the demand for modem inputs, both in terms of quantity and quality; (v) the ability to maintain the share of
cotton production that is marketed above the levels that have been hitherto realized by SONAPRA; (vi) the
satisfaction of farmers with respect to the quality of the leadership of local and apex producer
organizations; and (vii) the satisfaction of producers, ginners, and input distributors with the access to and
quality of technical advisory services. The complete list of indicators and their respective levels are
presented in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-242    Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/23/2001
A series of four in-country national and regional consultative workshops, convening key stakeholders from
various levels of government, sectoral ministries, and civil society have been held in preparation of the next
CAS. The sector related-CAS goal of this project, as reflected in the current document, is to sustain
growth by ensuring productivity increases and greater competitiveness in the cotton sector, while raising its
contribution to the poverty alleviation objectives. It would achieve this by (i) spreading the productivity
gains and income increases to a larger part of cotton producers and (ii) generating income multiplier effects
in the rest of the rural economy outside the cotton sector.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    The Government's strategic objectives and choices for poverty reduction
Since the economic crisis of the 1980s, the issue of poverty has received constant attention in Benin and has
become a major concern to the authorities. To combat poverty more effectively, the government of Benin
adopted in 1994 a strategy known as the Social Dimension of Development (SDD) which not only seeks to
ensure that macroeconomic and sectoral policies explicitly reflect the SDD objectives, but has also led to
the formulation of an action program targeting the most vulnerable groups. The strategy also calls for an
M&E system to monitor the living conditions of these groups.
In support of this strategy, a National Economic Conference held in 1996, defined the strategic choices in
five essential areas: education, access to primary health services and care, food security, development of the
income-generating capacities of vulnerable groups, and private sector development. It is in this context that
the governnent's overall agricultural sector strategy emphasizes the need to promote the diversification of
agricultural production by investing more in the developing of high potential crops such as pineapple,
cassava, cashew, palm oil, and groundnuts. The government also believes that increasing farmer incomes
would substantially reduce the pockets of poverty that now exist in both rural and urban areas. Expanding
and diversifying agricultural output and supporting producer prices are seen as important components of
the government's poverty reduction strategy.
With regard to the cotton sector in particular, the government is determined to complete the reforms now
under way. These aim at (i) liberalizing the sector and promoting competition, (ii) enhancing the regulatory
role of the government, (iii) expanding national cotton production and increasing farmer incomes, and (iv)
empowering and building the capacity of producer organizations.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the dominance of the cotton sector both in terms of income generation and employment, as well as
the important potential of growth in the sector, a main entry point of the strategy to foster broad-based
poverty reduction through private sector development should be to restore competitiveness of the cotton
sector. Consequently, the proposed project would pursue the effective liberalization of the cotton sector,
building upon the recent decisions by government to lift the monopsony of SONAPRA over seed-cotton
marketing. The government's Declaration of Rural Development Policy (DRDP), which it prepared in
1999 as well as its Sector Framework Paper (Schema Directeur) and Priority Action Plan of 2000 provide
the basis for its intervention in the rural sector, while confirming its withdrawal from productive and
commercial activities. However, the substantial level of intervention in the cotton sector until this season
and the lack of competitiveness and transparency that have resulted therefore have led to significant
inefficiencies in production and processing sectors. It has also resulted in low revenue shares for seed
cotton producers.
Furthermore, the lifting of the monopoly and the decision by Government to transfer the technical and
commercial activities formerly entrusted to SONAPRA to the private sector, raised the critical issue of
ensuring access to and recovery of modem input credit. The current input credit system which has been
based on SONAPRA's monopoly over seed-cotton marketing would not work under a liberalized marketing
system. Moreover, SONAPRA's involvement in the delivery of agricultural services and other technical
support to cotton farmers were directly tied to its monopsony situation. The liberalization of the sector
therefore raises the need to develop a new input credit recovery system as well as alternative, private-sector
- 4 -



based agricultural services delivery systems. Accordingly, the set of issues to be addressed by the proposed
project are related to: (i) the need by the private sector to effectively take over the responsibility over
ginning and primary marketing activities; (ii) the necessity to further strengthen the capacities of producer
organizations and help them become credible technical and commercial partners for ginners, input
distributors, banks, and technical services providers; (iii) the imperative of developing a viable mechanisms
to ensure adequate access to and recovery of credit for modem inputs; (iv) the need to put in place and
ensure the start off of the activities of the transitional institutions; and (v) the need to minimize the risk of
failure and maximize the chance of a successful transition.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In order to meet its development objectives, the proposed project would implement the following five sets of
activities:
(i) Support to the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC) and Project Management. The
Association Interprofessionnelle du Cotton is a commodity association that was created in 1999 in
anticipation of the liberalization of the cotton sector and is to serve as (i) a framework for consultation
among private sector operators on policy and institutional issues and (ii) a representative for the private
sector to interact with government on all aspects policy design and implementation. It has just become
operational. Under this component, technical assistance would be provided to ensure that it operates
successfully. A Technical Secretariat (ST-AIC) has been set up to help the AIC to play its role. The
project would provide support for the operation of the Secretariat through: (i) the provision of technical
advisory services, including for carrying out studies, collecting data, and preparing technical report; (ii) the
provision of training; and (iii) the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials. Given that
AIC, through its technical secretariat would be in charge of the management of the project, the support that
would be provided would cover the provision of advisory services to assist the Secretariat in its
management responsibilities, including the auditing of project accounts and the expenses by the two
participating implementing agencies CSPR and FUPRO. At the end of the project, the private sector would
take over the financing of ST-AIC's operations.
(ii) Support to the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPRJ. The CSPR would
take over the responsibility of organizing primary cotton marketing during the transition period and would
assume the two essential functions of the SONAPRA system, that is to ensure payment of seed-cotton to
producers and of input credit to dealers and commercial banks. Four that purpose, it would have to carry
out three main clusters of activities: (i) registration of all loans and credits associated with the importation
and distribution of modem inputs; (ii) monitoring of seed-cotton procurement and delivery during the
marketing season; and (iii) channeling of all financial flows related to the payment by ginners of
seed-cotton to producers and of input credit by dealers to lending banks. The current component would
provide support for the operation of the Centrale through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services,
including for carrying out studies, collecting data, and preparing technical report; (ii) the provision of
training; and (iii) the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials.
(iii) Support to the Federations des Unions de Producteurs (FUPRO) and its member organizations. This
component would strengthen the institutional and technical capacities of producer organizations. The
targeted outcome is to reinforce the leadership and representational capacities of national producer
organizations and equip organizations at the local level for them to become technically and economically
-5 -



credible partners vis-a-vis other operators in the sectors, in particular the cotton ginners, input importers,
and comnmercial banks. For the latter purpose, support would be provided to build the technical and
commercial capacities of the current Unions Departementales de Producteurs (UDP). The strengthened
UDPs would (i) in the short run, fill the gap, in terms of technical and commercial support to producers,
that would result from the privatization of the assets of SONAPRA and (ii) in the medium to long run,
represent the interests of their member fanners with respect to ginners, banks, input traders, and technical
services delivery organizations, public as well as private. The support to be provided under the component
would include: (i) the provision to FUPRO and its member organizations of (i.a) technical advisory
services, including for the management of cotton cropping, input distribution, and output marketing
activities and the carrying out of studies, collecting data, and preparing technical report; (i.b) training and
institutional support services; and (ii) the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials.
(iv)Support for the Implementation of Sector-wide Technical Services Programs (STSP) This component
would support the efforts of the private sector to take over responsibility over the agricultural services and
other technical support functions which were carried out by SONAPRA under the monopoly system. It
would facilitate access to agricultural services and the generation and diffusion of improved technologies of
production, processing, marketing, and exporting, while helping the private sector develop a more
permanent institutional response. The component would provide funding to AIC for the financing of the
implementation of annual sector-wide technical services programs in the areas of (i) environmentally sound
cotton ginning and pest management practices; (ii) cotton research and production of improved seeds; (iii)
cotton quality control; (iv) training and extension services for cotton farmers; (v) cotton price and income
stabilization; and (vi) any future sector-wide technical support programs that are agreed on by AIC and the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Association. These programs would be approved by the Project Steering
Committee and satisfactory to the Association, and would be implemented through qualified service
providers.
(v) Support to the privatization of SONAPRA's ginning operations: Under this component, support would
be provided to the government of Benin to carry out a transparent strategies to privatize the company's
ginning operations. A financial advisor would be recruited to advise the government on the implementation
of the privatization of the ginning plants. The advisor would prepare the transaction for offer and would
work with the Government to assure that it conforms to all applicable laws and standards of transparency
and openness. In addition, assistance would be provided to the Cellule des Operations de Denationalisation
(COD), which would be in charge of managing the privatization process. The assistance would include the
provision of technical advisory services and training; and the acquisition of equipment, furniture, and
materials.
Most likely, some employment would be suppressed with the reforms of the filiere and assistance would
need to be provided to Government to address the social aspects of the reform. In particular, most of
SONAPRA's personnel that was in charge of primary marketing would lose their jobs. The CSPR, which
is taking over the organization of primary marketing, and too a lesser extent, AIC, would be encouraged to
give priority to qualified candidates among them in their recruitment efforts. CSPR has utilized the same
personnel, about 70 staff, during the last marketing campaign under an agreement with SONAPRA. For
those who would not find employment with CSPR or AIC, financial support would be provided for their
conversion on the basis of a program to be worked out between Government and SONAPRA's
management, in consultation with IDA, to be adopted by June 30, 2002. The cost of the conversion
program would be funded under the Borrower's budget which would be supported under the Bank's budget
support program.
-6 -



1. Project components: (see Annex 1)
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
(i) Operationalization of the AIC*  Agency Reform        4.80       19.8       4.15      23.1
(ii) Support to CSPR              Agency Reforrn         3.50       14.5       3.10       17.2
(iii) Support to FUPRO            Agriculture            6.20       25.6       4.60      25.6
Adjustment
(iv) Support to STSP              Agriculture            8.00       33.1       4.75      26.4
Adjustment
(v) Privatization of SONAPRA's    Agency Reforn           1.70       7.0       1.40       7.8
ginning operations
Total Project Costs                   24.20      100.0      18.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                     24.20      100.0      18.00      100.0
(*) Includes project coordination and PPF
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms first relate to the creation of a transparent legal and institutional
framework for the proper short and medium term operation of both the AIC and CSPR. In particular, the
project would ensure an effective transfer to the private sector of the responsibility over all technical
activities that were hitherto under the control of SONAPRA. For that purpose, it would equip the private
sector with the necessary capacity to implement these activities. Furthermore, it would provide a
framework for (i) consultations between the public and private sectors on sector policies and (ii)
collaboration between the two sides in areas such agricultural, services delivery and infrastructure
development. The second set of reforms that would be sought relates to the privatization of SONAPRA's
ginning activities. As indicated before, the government has decided to eliminate the monopsony of
SONAPRA on the primary marketing of seed-cotton. However, there is no agreement yet on the
privatization strategy. The Bank is currently discussing with GOB alternative strategies to privatize the
ginning plants, which would be more in line with the long term objectives of sustained growth and improved
income distribution in the sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
Given the strategic importance of the cotton sector, the anticipated expansion of output, increase in
productivity, and improvement in income distribution would induce considerable economic, social and
environmental benefits, as outlined below:
Economic benefits: Experience with respect to similar sector reforms in other African countries, such as
the case the cotton sector in Zimbabwe, indicates that, when adequately implemented, such reforms can
significantly improve economic returns in the sector. In the particular case of the cotton sector in Benin,
greater efficiency and hence competitiveness in export markets, coupled with better distribution of revenues
across key groups of actors in the sector, would not only improve incomes in the rural areas, but would
also generate additional foreign exchange as well as budgetary resources. The cumulative impact of these
different effects in terms of poverty reduction in and outside of the rural areas can be considerable.
Social benefits: The Project would strengthen the representational and leadership capacity of producer
organization, thereby paving the way for greater participation by farmers in the design, implementation,
and evaluation of sector policies. By so doing, it would also empower local communities, beyond the
- 7 -



narrow group of cotton farmers, to take greater responsibility within the context of the process of political
and administrative decentralization that has been launched recently by the government of Benin.
Environmental benefits: The proposed project activities in the area of agricultural services delivery would
strengthen the sector's capacity to generate and broadly disseminate better cropping technologies. By
promoting demand-responsive services delivery systems, the project would allow farmers greater
involvement in the definition of technical problems and the search for appropriate solutions, including the
use the modem inputs. Moreover, the expected higher revenue shares would raise the capacity of farners
to invest in better cropping technologies, including soil and fertility conservation techniques.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Project coordination and oversight
Technically, the cotton sector is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and
Fisheries (MAEP). However, given the purely private sector nature of the majority of the project's
activities as well as the need for sustainability, it is proposed that AIC, through its Technical Secretariat,
(ST-AIC) be in charge of the implementation of the project, which would be carried out under the direction
of the Secretariat's Permanent Secretary. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), to be chaired by the
representative of MAEP, would be set up before project effectiveness to coordinate and supervise the
implementation of the project activities. The steering committee would not have direct management
responsibilities. Its main role would be to oversee the project implementation, guide the management team,
and approve the project's annual work program and budget. For that purpose, AIC would submit to the
Steering Committee, the Borrower, and the Association for review and comments by October 1 of each
year during project implementation a draft annual program and budget for the following project year. At
the latest by December 15 of each implementation year, AIC would adopt the annual work program and
budget in a form and substance that is satisfactory to the Borrower, the Steering Committee, and the
Association.
The Committee would meet at least twice a year to approve the annual work program, review
implementation progress, and formulate recommendations, when necessary, with respect to project
implementation. The secretariat of the Committee would be filled by the Permanent Secretary of the AIC.
Besides the Chair and representative of MAEP, the Committee would include 6 other members representing
the ministries of planning and finance, producer organizations, the associations of ginners, the group of
input distributors, and the association of commercial banks.
4.2. Project management
The project's management would be the responsibility of AIC through its Technical Secretariat (ST-AIC).
The Secretariat's Permanent Secretary would act as the Project Coordinator. The necessary personnel
would be recruited competitively, comprising mainly of a Procurement Specialist, a Director of
Administration and Finance, an Accountant, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and a Specialist in
charge of the Sector-wide Technical Services Programs (STSP) who would work under the supervision of
the Director of Contracts and Agreements. The Permanent Secretary, as Project Coordinator would be
responsible for the day-to-day management of project activities, preparation of technical and financial
reports, as well as the annual work program including the consolidated budget for all project components,
and its presentation to the steering committee for approval. He would closely work with CSPR, COD, and
FUPRO to prepare the annual work programs and budgets.
The STSP Assistant Coordinator would work under the supervision of the Permanent Secretary. He/she
would be in charge of preparing and coordinating the implementation of the various agreements and
conventions that AIC would sign with public as well as private sector institutions to carry out the sector's
- 8 -



technical support programs: agricultural research, extension, seed programs, quality control, and other
sector-wide activities that were formerly entrusted to SONAPRA.
The project's effectiveness would be conditional upon the signing of a subsidiary financing agreement
between AIC and Government, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and which (i) transfers as a
grant the credit resources to AIC; (ii) designates the Technical Secretariat of AIC as the implementing
agency; (iii) specifies the relationships between ST-AIC and the borrower's specialized institutions dealing
with the management of external resource flows and fiduciary aspects of government funded projects, such
as the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA); the Commission Nationale des Marches Publics
(CNMP); and the Cellule de Suivi des Projets (CSP); and (iv) defines all other necessary conditions for a
transparent and efficient use of the project resources by ST-AIC in order to achieve the project outcomes.
4.3    Accounting, Financial Management, Periodic Reporting and Annual Audits
AIC's Technical Secretariat, under the supervision of its Permanent Secretary and through the Director of
Administration and Finance (DAF) would be responsible for financial management of project resources,
including establishment of an adequate accounting system, internal control procedures, preparation and
subrnission of periodic financial statements and ensuring that the project's annual financial statements are
audited in confornity with IDA requirements. The DAF would also monitor all disbursements to ensure
that all expenditures are eligible and incurred for the purposes intended under the project.   The
establishment of an adequate financial management system that is satisfactory to IDA, including the
adoption of a satisfactory manual of procedures conform to OP/BP 10.02 would be a condition of
effectiveness; and the recruitment of staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA a
condition of board presentation.
A Special Account (SA) would be opened by the Borrower, on behalf of the project, at a commercial bank,
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, where the Credit resources would be deposited to finance the
project activities. The Technical Secretariat, through its Director of Administration and Finance and under
the supervision of the Permanent Secretary, acting as the Project Director, would be in charge of managing
the account. ST-AIC would pay for eligible expenses on behalf of the other agencies, except for eligible
expenses not greater than the equivalent of US$15,000, which can be pre-financed and reimbursed upon
presentation of proper documentation. It would submit withdrawal applications through the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), as required by external finance procedures prevailing in Benin. All
withdrawal applications would have to be signed by authorized CAA representatives, as designated by the
Minister of Finance.
Every year, the financial statements of the project, including expenditures by the two participating
implementing agencies (CSPR, and FUPRO) would be audited by an independent firm of professional
auditors to be recruited at the latest by April 30, 2002. The auditing firm would be selected in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Bank's Consultant Guidelines applicable to quality-and cost-based
selection of consultants and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and which would ensure that the
SA is audited in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the provisions of the Credit Agreement. In addition to
the opinion on project financial statements, the auditors would be required to provide separate opinions on
the SOEs and the management and utilization of the Special Account and Project Counterpart Fund
Accounts. In line with general audit practice, the auditors would also issue a management report with
practical recommendations for improvement in project's accounting and internal control system where
necessary. The audit costs would be financed by the project under consultant services.
9-



Between individual audits, CAA's Project Control Unit (Cellule de Suivi des Projets - CSP) would monitor
the quality of the financial management of the project. It would regularly examine the accounts and records
of AIC and review disbursement activities as well as actions taken by the Secretariat to follow up on audit
recommendations.
Under the overall responsibility of the DAF, the project would be required to submit quarterly Project
Monitoring Reports (PMRs) as indicated in the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual of February
1999. However, it is to be expected that the project (and the DAF in particular) would need very close
guidance in this task and it is unlikely that the project would be able to produce immediately all the 12
reports required under the new FINMI (ex-LACI) procedures. It is expected, however, that the project
should be able to generate the complete PMRs within 18 months after project effectiveness.
4.4    Monitoring and Evaluation
It is proposed to recruit a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist to work with the ST-AIC's Division of
Information to monitor activity outcomes and evaluate the project's impact. The M&E tasks and
modalities would be defined in a Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, satisfactory to IDA, including a Project
Monitoring Guide (OMG) and an Impact Evaluation Guide (IEG) that would be prepared and adopted no
later than 4 months after project effectiveness. As part of the impact evaluation activities, a baseline cotton
sector survey (BCSS) would be carried out within the first year of project implementation to provide a
basis against which the various project indicators would be measured. The BCSS would include four
separate sets of structured surveys on (i) farm households, (ii) processing sector, (iii) the main private
sector institutions, i.e. AIC, CSPR, CAGIA, FUPRO and its member organizations, and the associations of
ginners and input distributors; and (iv) government institutions dealing with agricultural services and other
sector-wide technical support activities. These surveys would be implemented under the supervision of
ST-AIC's Division of Information.
4.3.2  The M&E specialist would implement a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting system
focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project. The system should allow for an effective
evaluation of: (a) the effectiveness of the project's delivery mechanisms and procedures; and (b) the impact
of project activities on the basis of the stated objectives, the baseline data base, and the input, output, and
impact indicators that are identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1). The key tasks under the
monitoring arrangements would include: (i) regular monitoring of project activities on the basis of the
project impact and outcome indicators that are specified in the Project Design Summary; (ii) updating at
the beginning of year 3 and middle of year 4 of the project of the baseline surveys; (iii) analysis of the
survey data through qualified and independent research entities (universities, research centers, consulting
finns); and (iv) collection of additional information as necessary to document the progress status of project
activities. The progress towards project outcomes would be evaluated during its execution and at project
completion. A project mid-term review would be carried out by Government to determine, based on the
results of M&E as described above, the extent to which the project is performing vis-a-vis its development
objectives. At the end of year 4, an impact study would be carried out to assess whether the project's
objectives have been met.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There are not many alternative ways of dealing with sector reform issues such as the ones that are being
addressed by the proposed project. There were practically two approaches to moving ahead the cotton
- 10-



sector reform agenda in Benin. One was through extensive policy dialogue and the other was to go beyond
the dialogue and commit resources to a comprehensive program that would address in a fairly consistent
manner all the obstacles that hinder a successful transition to a competitive sector. Given the strategic
nature of the cotton sector and the political sensibility surrounding it, policy dialogue alone would not have
worked, as shown by the experience of the two years preceding the decision by Government to finally
launch the reform process in June 2000. There has been a justified need to reassure Goverunent that the
Bank is willing to invest the necessary resources to tackle all potential risks and ensure a successful
transition.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Implement an industrial plantation to   Forestry Project             S             S
reduce dependence imports (closed
1991)
Capacity Building of Producer     Institutional & Technical         S              S
Organization (effective September  Capacity Building of Producer
2000)                             Organizations
Increase agricultural productivity and  Agricultural Services        S             S
farm incomes (closed June 1999)   Restructuring Project
Improve food security for vulnerable   Food Security                 S             S
populations (closed September 2000)
Decentralized and community-based    Borgou Pilot Rural Support      S             S
rural development                 Project
Management of natural resources   Natural Resources Management       S             S
(closed June 1999)                Project
GEF Financed:                     National Parks Conservation &      S             S
Sustainable use of national parks  Management Project
Improve access to basic social services Social Funds                 S             S
Rehabilitation of rural credit    Rural Credit II                   U              U
cooperatives (closed December 2000)
Other development agencies
Agricultural cooperative consolidation  Support to the Consolidation of
(closed 1999)                     the Zou Agricultural
Cooperatives
Agricultural export diversification  Improvement & Agricultural
Diversification Project
Rural road rehabilitation &       Rural Roads Rehabilitation &
maintenance                       Maintenance Project in Zou &
Borgou
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The most important lessons that have been learned with respect to the proposed project come from the long
and extensive interaction with Government and the private sector on the strategies to move from an
administered sector to a more market-based system. This interaction has led to the realization that the
private sector, primarily ginners and producers, have to take the lead in inventing the solutions to the
sector's problems. The several initiatives of the past year have indeed demonstrated that private operators
were well capable of establishing a collective discovery process for solutions to the problems faced by the
sector, if given the opportunity and challenged to do so. For instance, in preparing the current project, the
Bank team has deliberately refused to make any proposals. Rather, it has challenged the producer and
ginners' organizations to come to the negotiating table and invent solutions and make proposals themselves.
The team limited its role to providing support to the negotiating process, including through consultants
whose sole assignment had been to keep the parties talking to each other and ensuring that the consultation
process does not breakdown.
Over a three month period, between June and September 1999, the two parties (producers and ginners)
worked very hard to i) produce a consensus on transitory seed cotton pricing and marketing arrangements,
ii) successfully negotiate the establishment of the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC), and iii)
outline a proposal for a new input credit mechanism that would replace the SONAPRA-system after the
lifting of the monopoly over cotton-seed marketing. Given this early success and the demonstration that the
private sector can negotiate a comprehensive reformn program, the Bank decided to adopt the same process
in designing the current project. The different components, with the exception of the privatization of
SONAPRA ginning activities, which is being designed in consultation with Government and the company's
leadership, are entirely based on the outcome of the negotiations between the four main stakeholder groups:
the ginners associations, the producer organizations, the input distributors, and the commercial banks.
Other important lessons that are reflected in the design of the program are related to the need for
gradualism and pragmatism when moving from heavily controlled systems to more open ones. The
experience of domestic market reforms in many countries in Africa teaches us the importance of gradualism
and proper sequencing in opening small-holder based sectors to more competition. The project has
consequently chosen to start and build from the existing institutional set up. In doing so, it has been guided
by the following principle: (i) to introduce as much change as possible to ensure irreversibility of the
transition process but (ii) as little as possible so that existing institutional arrangements can carry us
smoothly through the first stages of the transition, and then (iii) build technical and institutional capacities
in the private sector while accelerating the pace of change.
The final lessons is derived from the observation that one of the main reasons why the cotton sector has not
contributed to its fullest potential to poverty reduction, not only in Benin but in all other West and Central
African countries, is that the decision making system has been strongly biased against the interest of
farmers. The observed implicit taxation, management inefficiencies, and the related rents and transfers
have been so pervasive because the primary losers, the farmers, have had very little influence on decision
making in the sector. As a consequence, the project places strong emphasis on building the technical,
commercial, and organizational capacities of farner associations in order to allow them to better represent
their interest and to become credible business partners to other private sector operators.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government has demonstrated a clear commitment to the development of the proposed Project. This is
evidenced by the fact that after the government has eliminated the monopsony of the SONAPRA on the
primary marketing of the seed cotton, the State Minister has sent several requests for a support to
accompany this major decision. During the identification mission conducted in July 2000, the Ministry of
Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance Economy explicitly lent their support to the proposed
project. Furthermore, the government initiated and fully supported an IDF Grant for the institutional and
technical capacity building of the producer's organizations. This was seen by Government as a prerequisite
to this larger program as the producers and more specifically their organizations are the weakest group in
the sector and need to be strengthened to accompany the sector reforms. Moreover, representatives from
the key ministries have participated in all the technical meetings during the identification mission, which
assembled all stakeholders and potential beneficiaries to elaborate the project's logical framework.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The cotton filiere has benefited from support through bilateral donors such as the Swiss Development
Cooperation, the French Development Agency (AFD), the Dutch and German Technical Cooperation
Agencies. However, this support has been targeted primarily to strengthening the organizational capacities
of producer organizations. Accordingly, it has hitherto lacked the necessary comprehensive approach to
support the effective liberalization of the sector.
The Bank would play the required leadership role in assisting the government to effect the transition to a
liberalized and more competitive sector. It would thereby act as a catalyst to consolidate the support to the
transition process and provide a well articulated framework that ensures consistency across individual
donor activities in the sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The economic analysis of the project has focused on the component related to the improvement of the
provision of commercial and technical services to producer organizations at the level of the Unions
Departementales de Producteurs (UDP). This component accounts for a small share of total project costs.
The other components (support to CSPR and AIC) deal with activities that have more the character of
public goods and whose benefits are not easy to measure. Given the difficulty of obtaining reliable benefit
estimates for these types of activities, the analysis has focused on (i) a diagnosis of the weaknesses in the
area of services deliveries in the context of a withdrawal of SONAPRA and (ii) the identification of
institutional and organization responses at the level of local organizations. Given the growth experience in
the cotton sector and the role played therein by the provision of services, the outcome of the analysis
indicates that considerable benefits should be expected from project activities.
- 13-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
2. Financial
As specified above, the bulk of the project activities support the operations of non-profit making institution,
the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC) and the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du
Recouvrement (CSPR). These activities do not lend themselves to reliable financial estimates.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
Two key studies have been conducted by international consultants to finalize the concepts and work
programs of CSPR and AIC, which constitute the core institutions of the reforms. These detailed studies
have defined for each the two institutions the status, mission, and broad program areas. They have also
defined the human as well as financial resources needed, including detailed terms of reference for key staff.
A third study has been carried out on the strengthening of the capacities of UDPs. That study examined the
challenge facing local farner organizations following the withdrawal of SONAPRA from primary
marketing, the provision of technical services, the distribution of modern inputs, to the facilitation of access
to credit. It has defined a new set of activities to be carried out by the strengthened UDPs and specified the
required human and financial resources. The study has also defined the job profile and terms of reference
for the key personnel and has also prepared financial plans that ensure cost recovery and sustainability with
respect to the commercial and technical activities that are to be carried out by the UDPs.
4. Institutional:
Since the reforms are to be carried out through the private sector, the main issues that arise from the
institutional point of view relate to the coordination of implementation activities within the private sector
and between the latter and government institutions, primarily the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and
Fisheries (MAEP). The coordination with government should be facilitated through the establishment of
the proposed Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would be chaired by MAEP and which would
include representatives from the other two key ministries, planning and finance, as well as from the main
private sector groups. The PSC, which would be established before project effectiveness, would supervise
the project implementation by the Technical Secretariat of the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton
(ST-AIC). It would review the annual work programs and budgets. Specialized government institutions
such as the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), the Commission National des Marches Publics, and
the Cellule de Contr6le des Projets would all be involved in the fiduciary aspects of the project. These
relationships would be clarified in the implementation manual of the project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Four main agencies would participate in the execution of project activities: the Association
Interprofessionnelle du Coton through its Technical Secretariat (ST-AIC), as the main executing agency
and coordinator of project implementation; the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement
(CSPR), the Federation des Unions de Producteurs (FUPRO), and the Cellule des Operations de
Denationalisation (COD). AIC would collaborate with COD in implementing the privatization component
of the project. It would collaborate with FUPRO to carry out the support to producer organizations, and
with CSPR for the implementation of the new input credit recovery system and other related activities.
- 14 -



Support would be provided to all three agencies to strengthen their technical and institutional capacities and
enable them to effectively participate in the implementation of the project activities.
4.2 Project management:
ST-AIC would be in charge of the day to day management of project activities. It would be in charge of
the financial management, procurement, reporting, and preparation of work programs and budgets. The
Secretariat would establish, before project effectiveness, an adequate financial management system that is
satisfactory to IDA, including the adoption of a satisfactory manual of procedures and the recruitment of
staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. It would also recruit procurement personnel
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. Finally, the Borrower would adopt a project
implementation manual that is satisfactory to IDA and which details the relationships between the
individual executing agencies.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A detailed assessment of the procurement capacity of ST-AIC has been carried out during appraisal. The
Secretariat has just been set up has no experience yet with procurement. It is planned to set up a
procurement unit within ST-AIC. The recruitment of the procurement personnel with qualification and
experience that are acceptable to IDA would be a condition of board presentation. Terms of reference for
the recruitment of the procurement specialist have been prepared during the appraisal mission.
ST-AIC, through its procurement unit, would be responsible for all project procurement activities. It
would carry out these procurement activities on behalf of government. It would also carry out procurement
activities on behalf of the other executing agencies, except for contracts processed by FUPRO's member
organizations, such as the Unions Departmentales des Producteurs (UDPs) and in amounts not greater than
US$7,500. It would agree to use documents and follow procedures of the Bank or that of the Borrower for
public procurement, provided these are acceptable to IDA. That agreement as well as the details of the
intervention of the Borrower's institutions in the procurement activities would be specified in the subsidiary
financing agreement that AIC and the government would sign before project effectiveness., using
procedures for IDA funded projects.
4.4 Financial management issues:
From the financial management point of view, the main issue would be to establish a financial management
system that is compliant with OP/BP 10.02 by effectiveness. The approach that is proposed to establishing
such a system is described in C.4.2 above.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Expansion of cotton production would involve the increase in the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides,
herbicides and other chemicals, as well as the operation of ginning plants. The residues of these chemicals
may affect wild fauna, fisheries and other surrounding environment. These chemicals can also cause bodily
harm, if farmers are not taught on their proper handling. Likewise, the operation of ginning plan could
expose workers to substance and dust emission as well as occupational hazards. An Environmental
Analysis and an Integrated Pest Management study have been carried out. The significant issues raised by
the analyses and the details of the EMP that is recommended for implementation under the proposed project
are presented in Annex 11. The project would work with the Borrower to ensure that all recommendations
are implemented by the ginning companies by June 30 2003.
- 15 -



Based on the findings of the above analyses and the review by the ASPEN team, the recommended
environmnental category for the proposed project is category B. The final EA draft was received in April
2001.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP are adequate (see Annex 11 for details).
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental analysis has two components: the audit of the ginning factories and the review of pest
management issues in cotton production. The team of consultants that carried out the environmental audit
has consulted closely with Benin's environmental agency (ABE) as well as the relevant technical ministries
(agriculture and environment) on the planning and implementation of its work program. In addition, the
team has spent several weeks traveling around the regions where ginning plants are located. They have
visited all ginning plants and have carried out interviews with about 100 people, consisting of two major
groups. The first, internal group includes personnel from the various ginning plants: managers, engineers,
environmental specialists, maintenance personnel, health and emergency services staff, security personnel,
and other technical personnel. The external group includes populations currently and formerly living next
to ginning plants, private entrepreneurs, former employees, and employees from environmental regulatory
institutions, emergency and rescue services, as well as local administrations. At the end of the mission, a
meeting was organized to review the preliminary results with representatives from government and the
ginning industry.
The pest management evaluation team, which was in the field at the same time as the environmental audit
team, has also consulted closely with the main stakeholder groups. It has held working meetings with the
main regulatory institution, the National Plant Protection Service, and the main research centers dealing
with cotton production (Benin's environmental agency - ABE; the Cotton and Fiber Research Center -
URCF; and the Biological Control Center for Africa of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture).
The team has also held working meetings with representatives from two main farmer organizations, the
Chamber of Agriculture, and the nation-wide Input Procurement and Management Cooperative. The
consultations have also included meetings in the main cotton producing areas with (i) farmer groups at the
village level as well as at the regional level and (ii) representatives from the local technical extension
services. Furthermore, the team has carried out on-farm visits in several cotton growing areas to meet and
discuss directly with individual farmers. At the end of the mission, the team organized a meeting to present
and discuss the draft Integrated Pest Management Plan (IPMP) with stakeholder representatives.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Regarding the recommendations of the environmental audit, a dated covenant has been added to the
Development Credit Agreement, which requires the government of Benin to ensure that they are all
implemented by the ginning companies by June 30, 2003. By that date, a review mission would be carried
out to verify compliance with the covenant.  For the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
Integrated Pest Management Plan, the project would develop a collaborative program with the Global IPM
Facility and the National Plant Protection Service. To this end, a dated covenant is included in the Project
- 16 -



Agreement, which obligates the main implementating agency to organize an IPM strategy workshop by
March 31, 2002, which would finalize the implementation details of the Integrated Pest Management Plan,
including the relevant indicators and the arrangements for monitoring and evaluation. These arrangements
would be included in the overall Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, which the government of Benin is
obligated, under the Development Credit Agreement, to adopt no later than 4 months after project
effectiveness.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As a result of the support for the conversion of sector employees component, the project envisages some
loss of employment. This would inevitably cause some direct and indirect socio-economic effects, which
would need to be addressed in the project framework. The project is well grounded in the Government's
strategy on the Social Dimension of Development (SDD), which underscores the importance of integrating
social issues in national macro-economic and sectoral policies and reforms. The group that is most likely
to be affected at this stage are SONAPRA's personnel, about 70 employees, that were in charge of primary
marketing. Many if not most of these employees could be hired by CSPR, which is taking over the
organization of primary marketing, and too a lesser extent, AIC, for its field level support activities. The
two institutions would be encouraged to give priority to qualified candidates among this group in their
recruitment efforts. For those who would not find employment with CSPR or AIC, financial support would
be provided for their conversion on the basis of a program to be worked out between Government and
SONAPRA's management, in consultation with IDA. However, with the privatization of SONAPRA's
ginning operations, a larger portion of its current employees would be affected. The conversion and
compensation of employees in both cases would be funded through the borrower's budget which would be
supported under the Bank's budgetary support program.
On the health side, the increased use of fertilizers and pesticides may have a potential negative impact on
people. Measures to address these concerns would be developed and implemented as part of the IPM
program so as to mitigate potential negative effects. These measures would be detailed in the IPM Strategy
and Action Plan to be prepared following the IPM seminar that is scheduled shortly after project
effectiveness.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The preparation of the project has been led by the stakeholders from the first draft of the logical framework
to the commissioning of all the technical studies that have served as a basis for the establishment of the
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC), the founding members of which are the associations of
producers and ginners, and the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPR), which
has been founded by the same associations plus the association of input importers and distributors, the
Groupement Prive des Distributeurs d'Intrants Agricoles (GPDIA). Moreover, with the exception of the
privatization component, the project activities would be implemented exclusively by agencies that have
been set up by stakeholder groups, including AIC's Technical Secretariat, which would have responsibility
over overall coordination, CSPR, and the apex organization of farmer associations (FUPRO) as well as its
member organizations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The most relevant civil society organizations are the organizations of the main private sector operators that
are active in the various segments of the cotton sector. Most of the background documents, on the basis of
which the main project components are based, were comnmissioned by one or several of the organizations
- 17 -



referred to in section 6.2 above. The preparation of the underlying studies involved extensive consultations
with the main stakeholder groups. Furthermore, the logical framework of the project was prepared in
collaboration with the above organizations during a mission to Cotonou in May 2000. Finally, the project
activities would be implemented directly or coordinated by several of these organizations. No independent,
outside unit has been set up to run the project activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The most important issues on the social side would be to avoid the loss of employment and mitigate other
potential social effects of the privatization of the ginning activities of SONAPRA and the takeover of its
marketing activities by AIC and CSPR. Agreement has been reached for the latter to give priority to
qualified candidates among affected SONAPRA  employees in their recruitment efforts. For those who
would not find employment with CSPR or AIC, agreement has been reached in principle for financial
support to be provided for their conversion on the basis of a program to be worked out between
Government and SONAPRA's management, in consultation with IDA. That program would be prepared in
association with the finalization of the privatization of SONAPRA and would be adopted by June 30, 2002.
The cost of the conversion program would be funded under the Borrower's budget which would be
supported under the Bank's budget support program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The activities to be carried out on the social side are not complex, given the limited size of the affect staff,
and can be monitored easily. The conversion / mnitigation program referred to above would detail the
monitoring arrangements to be adopted.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             O Yes O No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) and a Pest Management Plan (PMP) have been prepared as part
of project preparation. The environmental audit of cotton ginning companies that has been carried out
under the environmental analysis proposes the following measures to address the environmental problems
caused by the cotton ginning plants are of several types and include the following:
(i) Enforcement of national regulations to ensure full compliance of plants with safety and emnission
standards;
(ii) Formulation and adoption environmental awareness raising programs within the plants and without to
sensitize the surrounding populations on the environmental problems, and the best way to mitigate them;
- 18 -



(iii) Adoption of environmental management plans in order to control air emission, treat and dispose of
wastes, and protect workers from exposure to harmful substances, heat, dust, malfunctioning equipment;
(iv) Training of the key people responsible for implementing the environmental management plans of the
plants, and improving record keeping;
(v) Integrating environmental management at plant level with the local or municipal environmental
management plans, especially, for waste treatment, handling of hazardous substances (transport, storage,
treatment, and disposal), and awareness raising.
The PMP includes an assessment of: (i) current pest management practices and the extent to which these
are part of an IPM approach, (ii) risks associated with current pesticide use and, (iii) regulatory framework
for the control of pesticides and institutional and technical capacity to promote IPM.
The PMP provides: (i) proposals for direct measures to reduce risks associated with use of pesticides, (ii) a
plan to develop an IPM strategy for cotton in Benin (the strategy would be developed and introduced under
this project), (iii) recommendations for the strengthening of the regulatory framework and institutional
capacity for pesticide control and IPM implementation. Further the PMP includes a monitoring scheme to
track compliance with OP 4.09 during project implementation.
Activities recommended by the PMP would be reflected in the project design and carried out during
implementation. There would not be a specific project component on pest management. Instead, these
activities would be fully integrated into the Sector-wide Technical Services Programs, in particular in the
research and extensiong/training programs.   For this purpose, an IPM  strategy would be prepared,
beginning with a workshop to be held by March 31, 2002 to identify the underutilized potential for IPM
and Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and to design pilot projects to adapt and validate cotton IPM
and 1NM technologies and approaches to the specific situation in Benin. The strategy would be prepared in
collaboration with the Global IPM Facility and adopted by Government by June 30, 2002.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Except in crisis years, the cotton sector has always mobilized sufficient resources to finance the most
critical activities related to technical support, marketing, input financing, and infrastructure maintenance.
These activities have been financed through levies operated by SONAPRA on the price of cotton paid by
ginners. With the liberalization of primary marketing, the private sector needs to regroup and find
altemative mechanisms of carrying out the same activities and new modalities for mobilizing resources and
paying for these activities. One of the main rationales behind the project is to provide the necessary
support to (i) avoid transitory funding difficulties that may cause the sector to collapse and (ii) help the
stakeholders develop viable private-sector mechanism.
With the exception of the privatization component, all of the counterpart funds are provided by the private
sector, totaling nearly US$6.0 million or about 25 percent of total project costs. Through AIC, the private
sector would contribute 80 percent in the first two years and 60 percent thereafter of the operating costs of
ST-AIC and the other participating implementing agencies, FUPRO and CSPR. The significant level of
contribution to project costs, in addition to the expected expansion of incomes in the cotton sector, would
indicate that the private sector would be in a position to carry out the activities beyond the life of the
project. The question is not one of resources but rather of institutional set up. The project is helping set up
the institutions that would allow the sector to effectively address its technical and commercial needs.
- 19-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The CSPR system may create rigidities      M         The project team would continue to interact
that would prevent the transition to greater         closely with key stakeholders in order to ensure
competition in the sector                            that the transition process progresses smoothly
Government may not maintain its            S         GOB's continued commitment would be secured
commitment to privatizing SONAPRA's                 through continued policy dialogue and
ginning operations                                   consultation with development partners and key
stakeholders. in the private sector
Public sector services may not fully       M         Comprehensive and transparent collaborative
cooperate with the private sector in                 agreements would be signed with the main
delivering technical services                        government agencies and their performance
closely monitored
From Components to Outputs
Producer associations may collude to       M         The project team will make every possible effort
create a de facto monopoly over seed                 to educate all private sector families about the
cotton marketing                                     need of maintaining a transparent and
competitive environment and will use the
proposed mediation mechanism for that purpose
The government may interfere with the      M         The Bank team would continue the close policy
proper operation of the CSPR mechanism               dialogue that has accompanied the reform
process so far to reduce the need for interference
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*     Signing of a subsidiary financing agreement between AIC and Government under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA;
*     Initial payment of the equivalent of CFA 50 million by the Borrower into a project account to be
opened at the treasury, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,  to receive its
contributions to the project's counterpart funds under the privatization component;
*     Initial payment of the equivalent of CFA 300 million by AIC on behalf of its members into another
project account to be opened at a commercial bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, to receive the contributions of its members to the project's counterpart funds under the
remaining components of the project;
*     Adoption by AIC of a project implementation manual and a manual of financial procedures that
are satisfactory to IDA.
*     Establishment at ST-AIC of an adequate financial management system that is satisfactory to IDA;
- 20 -



*     Establishment by Government of a Steering Committee chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries (MAEP) in a manner and with members and staff whose number,
qualifications, and experience are satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
Conditions of Board Presentation
None
3. Dated covenants in the Development Credit Agreement:
*     Government would prepare by June 30, 2002 a plan of action which is acceptable to IDA, to
mitigate the loss of employment in the cotton sector that may result from the activities carried out
under the project;
*     Government would establish an independent Rural Development Fund to be operated in a manner
satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 2002;
*     Government would ensure that the Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP) is fully implemented by
all ginning companies by June 30, 2003, in a manner satisfactory to IDA;
*     Government would adopt the Integrated Pest Management Plan (IPMP), in form and substance
acceptable to IDA by June 30, 2002; and ensure compliance thereto in a timely manner by cotton
producers, in a form satisfactory to IDA;
-     Government would adopt the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory
to IDA, not later than four months after project effectiveness.
4. Dated covenants in the Project Agreement:
-     AIC would assist Government in establishing the Rural Development Fund, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association by December 31, 2002;
-     AIC would recruit an independent auditor on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA by April 30,
2002;
-     By October 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project, AIC would submit to
Government, IDA, and the Steering Committee, for review and comments, the draft program of
activities and budget for the following year;
*     By December 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project, AIC would adopt the
program of activities and budget for the following year, in a form and substance satisfactory to
Government, IDA, and the Steering Committee;
MAIC would prepare and submit to the Steering Committee, Government, and IDA the Monitoring
and Evaluation Plan no later than three months after project effectiveness;
MAIC would prepare and furnish to Government, IDA, and the Steering Committee the Integrated
Pest Management Plan no later than May 30, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
IW 1. b) Not applicable.
- 21 -



2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(a) Adequate financial management system established; and
(b) Signing of subsidiary financing agreement between Government and AIC.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
DG 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
M 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
OP/BP 10.02 requires that the cost of the annual audit be financed from the operating cost category. The
Task Team has, at the Borrower's request, agreed that these costs be disbursed from the consultants'
services category.
Q24V
dus an Badiane                  Joseph Baah   omoh                 Antoette   Saye
kewin LJeader                    Sector Manager                    Country Dir ctor
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To assist the Borrower in  Average cotton yields have    Baseline data base and  World market price trends
increasing the productivity   increased by 10 and 15  updated baseline survey   and instability would not
and efficiency of its cotton    percent respectively in the                     reduce attractiveness of cotton
sector, by moving from a   2nd and 4th years of the                             production to farmers
monopolistic, centrally    Project compared to the
administered production   baseline;
system to a system based on
competition.
Farmer incomes from cotton
production have increased by
at least 30 percent by the end
of the project compared to the
baseline;
The farmers' share in the
cotton export price has
increased by 10 and 20
percent respectively in the
2nd and 4th years of the
Project compared to the
baseline;
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increased cotton sector   AIC has set up adequate    a) Supervision reports      Government would not go
productivity and efficiency    mechanisms to successfully                        back on the reform process
through successful transition  provide technical support    b) Technical studies and
to a more competitive system  services to farmers and  reports
of production and trading  ginners;
Producers and ginners have
acquired the capacities to
make pricing and marketing
decisions through
independent contracts by the
end of the 4th year;
- 23 -



Key Perfornance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. An efficient primary   The share of cotton        a) Supervision reports     The CSPR system would not
marketing system has been    production that is marketed                        create rigidities that would
established               each year through the new  b) Technical studies and   prevent the transition to
system meets or exceeds the   reports                greater competition in the
baseline levels (achieved by                          sector
SONAPRA)
The delay of payment to
producers has been reduced to
a maximum of 30 days by the
2nd year of the Project
compared to the baseline
The delay of payment to
producers has been reduced to
a maximum of 30 days by the
2nd year of the Project
compared to the baseline
2. An effective input credit   The CSPR mechanism    a) Supervision reports
recovery system has been  ensures that demand for
established               modem inputs is fully      b) Technical studies and
satisfied by the private sector, reports
every year, both in terms of
quantity and quality
The recovery rate of input
credit through the CSPR
system is at least 99 percent in
first year of Project
Credit repayment period is at
least 50 percent shorter in
year two of Project compared
to the baseline
3. The leadership, technical,   At least 80 percent of  a) Supervision reports
and commercial capacities of  member farmers are satisfied
farmer organizations have    with the quality of the  b) Technical studies and
been strengthened         leadership of FUPRO and its  reports
other member organizations
by the end of the 2nd year;
At the latest by the middle of
the 2nd Project year: (i)
FUPRO publishes and
distributes regularly a
newsletter on the sector; (ii)
general assemblies are held
regularly by all member
organizations; (iii) adequate
comnmunications tools are
- 24 -



distributes regularly a
newsletter on the sector; (ii)
general assemblies are held
regularly by all member
organizations; (iii) adequate
communications tools are
available to all local producer
organizations
At the latest by the middle of
the 2nd Project year: (i) an
operational accounting system
is used by all beneficiary
UDPs; (ii) a uniform manual
of procedures containing
transparent management and
decision making procedures
are adopted by FUPRO and all
its beneficiary member
organizations.
All beneficiary UDPs have
recruited qualified staff and
provide adequate marketing
and technical support to their
members, by the end of the
2nd project year, as reflected
in lower payment delay, full
credit recovery, timely input
order and delivery, and lower
crop losses
4. Satisfactory           At least 80 percent of                                Public sector services would
implementation of all     producers, ginners, and input                         cooperate fully with the
Sector-wide Technical     distributors are satisfied with                       private sector in delivering
Services Programs has been   the quality of technical                           technical services
achieved                  services by the end of the 2nd
year
5. The privatization of   The privatization method has                          Government would maintain its
SONAPRA's ginning         been open and transparent                             commitment to privatizing
operations has been completed                                                   SONAPRA's ginning
in line with the sector's long                                                  operations
term goals
The terms of the transaction
are compatible with the
institutional outcomes of the
reform process
The form of asset transfer is
conducive to a competitive
sector structure
- 25 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Support to AIC         UD$4.15 M                                             Producer associations would
2.a Technical supportfor the                                                    not collude to create a de facto
preparation of the                                                              monopoly over seed cotton
establishment of the                                                            marketing
Secretariat Technique of the
Association                                                                     The government would not
Interprofessionnelle du Coton                                                   interfere with the operation of
(ST-AIC)                                                                        the CSPR mechanism.
2.b Financial supportfor the
operation of ST-AICs
2. Support to CSPR         US$3.10 M
L.a Technical supportfor the
preparation of the
establishment of the Centrale
de Securisation des Paiements
et du Recouvrement (CSPR)
L.a Technical andfinancial
support for the operation of
CSPR
3. Support to (FUPRO)     US$4.60 M
3.a Training andfinancial
support to strengthen the
leadership and representation
capacities of national
producer organizations
3. b Technical andfinancial
support to set up farmer
owned Unites Techniques et
Commerciales (UTC)
4. Support to STSP        US$4.75 M
Financial assistance to fund
sector-wide technical support
services
5. Support to privatization of US$1.40 M
SONAPRA's einning
operations
Technical andfinancial
assistance to the Cellule des
Operations Denationalization
US$18.00
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Benin's economy is driven primarily by the cotton sector both in terms of employment and income
generation and as a source of fiscal and foreign exchange revenue. For several decades, the government
has heavily focused its development efforts on the cotton sector, which grew much faster than the other
agricultural sub-sectors. The longstanding policy and institutional bias against producers and other private
sector operators that has characterized the government's intervention has considerably diminished the
contribution of the sector's rapid growth to poverty reduction in the rural areas. The government believes
that increasing farmer incomes would substantially reduce the pockets of poverty that now exist in both
rural and urban areas. Expanding and diversifying agricultural output and improving producer prices are
seen as important components of the government's poverty reduction strategy. With regard to the cotton
sector in particular, the government is determined to complete the reforms now under way. It has already
take measures to liberalize the ginning sector. It has recently lifted the monopoly of the public enterprise
SONAPRA over cotton-seed marketing and introduced measures to increase competition in the input
sector. It has announced in its letter of rural development policy its determination to work towards
enhancing the regulatory role of the governnent while empowering and building the capacity of producer
organizations. Through these changes, the government hopes to raise efficiency in the sector and thereby
expand national cotton production and increase farmer incomes.
The main purpose of Benin Cotton Sector Reform Project is to support the government's efforts to achieve
broad-based growth in the country's rural sector and thereby increase per capita rural incomes and reduce
the incidence of poverty. To achieve that objective, the project seeks to provide an answer to the main
question facing Benin's cotton sector, as far as the goal of poverty reduction is concerned, which is: (i) how
to further expand cotton cultivation, while (ii) spreading the productivity gains and income increases to a
larger part of cotton producers, and (iii) generating income multiplier effects within and outside the cotton
sector and the rest of the rural economy. The project development objective is to effect a successful
transition from the current monopolistic and centrally administered system to a more competitive cotton
sector and, hence, greater efficiency and productivity in the sector. The project would strengthen Benin's
competitiveness in international export markets, allowing the country to raise its market share and benefit
from the expected expansion of world cotton demand. Ultimately, the increase in productivity and
competitiveness should lead to higher incomes in the sector. It is also expected that the increase in
transparency and efficiency would lead to a better distribution of incomes throughout the sector, with
positive spill-over effects in other productive sectors both within and outside of the rural sector. The
proposed project would achieve the above objectives through the following five (5) sets of activities:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.15 million
A. Support to the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC).
The main challenge facing the stakeholders in the cotton sector after the lifting the SONAPRA's monopoly
is to find alternative institutional arrangements and mechanisms to the unilateral, government-centered,
mode of decision making that has hitherto characterized the system. Given the nature of cotton marketing
and the institutional environment of cotton production, these new arrangements and mechanisms would (a)
require the organization of the multitude of actors in the private sector and (b) involve collective action and
contracts between (i) individual private sector families, on the one hand, and (ii) the latter and the
government, including its specialized services, on the other. It is for that purpose that a commodity
association, the Association Interprofessionnelle to Coton (AIC), was created in 1999 in anticipation of the
- 27 -



liberalization of the cotton sector. Its founding members are the Federation of Producer Unions (Federation
des Union des Producteurs - FUPRO) and the Association of Private Ginners (Association Privee des
Egrenneurs du Benin - APEB). It is to serve as (i) a framework for consultation among private sector
operators on policy and institutional issues and (ii) a representative for the private sector to interact with
government on all aspects policy design and implementation.
The mission of AIC is twofold: general and specific. Under its general mission, AIC, through its Technical
Secretariat (ST-AIC), would organize and coordinate the process of consultations and negotiations within
the private sector and with government to arrive at agreements that would allow the private sector to take
over the sector's critical commercial and technical functions that have been formerly entrusted to
SONAPRA. The general mission also include the organization of mediation and arbitration between
contracting parties as well as the collection and dissemination of relevant economic and technical
information. Under its specific mission, ST-AIC would implement directly or through third party
institutions, including sub-contracting to the private sector, the activities and measures emanating from the
above sectoral agreements. These activities would include:
1)    Preparation and supervision of the annual seed-cotton marketing campaign, including pricing
negotiations, seed-cotton delivery, and input credit repayment;
2)    Elaboration and implementation of a new seed sector policy and a cotton research program in
collaboration with the research system (URCF) and the ministry of rural development;
3)    Overhaul the system of norms/standards and quality control, including the role of the current
direction of quality control (DPQC);
4)     Define a new policy and develop an effective and efficient training and extension system in
collaboration with the ministry of rural development and its specialized services;
5)    Development of a new private sector-based price / income stabilization mechanism;
6)    Development and implementation of a strategy to mobilize resources to fully finance the operation
of the Secretariat as well as the institutional and technical support activities falling under the
Association's specific missions.
Significant preparatory work, including technical studies, has been done with respect to this set of
activities, with direct involvement and in many cases supervision by the producers and ginners
organizations. Implementation by the technical secretariat has partly started and is being supported
currently through a PPF. The study on the fifth set of activities has been commissioned by AIC and is
under completion. The terms of reference for the studies and other preparatory work that should guide the
remaining activities would be defined in the project's implementation manual. AIC would be in charge of
the first set of activities described above during the 2-to-3-year transition period towards a competitive
contract farming system. After the successful strengthening of the commercial and technical capacities of
UDP under the FUPRO component of the project, pricing and marketing negotiations as well as input and
credit contracting would be carried out at the local level by these units on behalf of the local fanner
organizations.
The Technical Secretariat (ST-AIC), which would be in charge of the implementation of the proposed
project on behalf of AIC, would be headed by a Permanent Secretary, who would act as the Project
Coordinator, and would comprise three (3) main departments: Direction of Information, Monitoring, and
Evaluation (DIS); Direction of Contracts and Agreements (DAC); and Direction of Administration and
Finance (DAF). The DAC would be responsible for the coordination of seed services, technical advisory
services, research, and the coordination of the Sector-wide Technical Services Programs. The DAF would
include an Accounting Unit, and Payment and Credit Recovery Unit, and a Procurement Unit. Under the
current component, support would be provided to strengthen the institutional and technical capacities of the
Technical Secretariat through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services, including for carrying out
- 28 -



studies, collecting data, and preparing technical report; (ii) the provision of training; and (iii) the
acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials. Given that ST-AIC would be in charge of the
management of the project, the support that would be provided would cover the provision of advisory
services to assist the Secretariat in its management responsibilities, including the auditing of project
accounts and the expenses by the two participating implementing agencies CSPR and FUPRO. At the end
of the project, the private sector would take over the financing of ST-AIC's operations. At the end of the
project, the profession would take over the financing of its operations.
Project Component 2 - US$3.10 million
B. Support to the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPR).
Up until the lifting of the monopoly shortly before the current marketing season, the cotton sector was
funded through three different channels:
*      Credit to input dealers to import fertilizers and pesticides, the repayment of which is guaranteed by
SONAPRA to the lending banks based on its monopoly over seed cotton;
*      Credit to private ginners to pay for seed cotton; ginners may also receive seed-cotton on credit from
SONAPRA and pay once they sell the fiber;
*      Seasonal credit to SONAPRA (credit de campagne) from a pool of national and international
banks, which it uses to pay producers for the seed-cotton, after deducting the cost of modem inputs
which it uses to repay input dealers and their lending banks.
The seasonal credit to SONAPRA basically bears no risk, since (i) it is given once the level of harvest is
known, (ii) no other buyer competes with SONAPRA to buy seed-cotton, and (iii) export and sales
contracts are already available, in addition to a fiber warehousing system that gives lending banks some
control over the output that they are financing. Although the system worked extremely well in securing
credit for modem inputs, due the absolute monopoly of SONAPRA and the deduction of credit cost from
the seed-cotton price, it had also significant weaknesses. Firstly, the fact that SONAPRA fully guarantees
the credit to input dealers not only discourages sound financial management among dealers but also opens
the door to any one with sufficient political ties to enter the sector. The result has been high costs of inputs
and a lack of professionalism within the input distribution sector, which affects the quality of inputs.
Furthermore, fully protected by SONAPRA's guarantee, the lending banks had little incentives to apply
proper lending practices, contributing thereby to the proliferation of amateur traders in the system, with the
same consequences for input cost and quality. Finally, the delivery of seed-cotton to private ginners fully
on credit not only caused considerable delays in the payment of seed-cotton to producers but also
significant losses to SONAPRA.
The new input credit recovery system (the Centrale de Securisation des Payments et du Recouvrement -
CSPR) that is being put in place by the private sector and which is to be supported by the proposed
operation would keep the two essential functions of the SONAPRA system, that is to ensure payment of
seed-cotton to producers and of input credit to dealers and commercial banks. The new system would,
however, eliminate the weaknesses that are outlined above. Several studies have been commissioned
directly by on or behalf of the two main professional associations that are leading the reform process
(FUPRO and APEB). These two and the Association of Private Input Importers and Distributors
(Groupement Prive des Distributeurs et Importateurs d'Intrants Agricoles - GPDIA) are the founding
members of CSPR, which has the legal status of a private non-profit business association. The
membership is, however, open to future representative professional associations. The objective of these
studies has been to (a) review the current system, (b) identify the concerns and interests of all key parties
and (c) develop an alternative mechanism that would effectively address all these concerns and interest
while satisfying the efficiency and long term competitiveness goals of the sector. The output from these
- 29 -



studies include, among others, (i) an in-depth review and evaluation of the marketing and payment
procedures, (ii) definition of the mission and identification of the key functions that would be devoted to the
new system, (iii) the proposed institutional set up, (iv) the estimation of required financial and hum
resources, and (v) a detailed work plan towards the establishment of the mechanism.
The current mission of the CSPR is to provide the private sector with an effective mechanism to ensure
payment to producers and the recovery of input credit in an efficient, transparent, and timely manner and in
a way that encourages sound business management and lending practices throughout the sector. When the
capacities of local farmer organizations have been sufficiently strengthened and the sector moves towards a
decentralized system of contract farming, the mission and activities of CSPR would be adjusted to meet the
demands of the new environment. During the transition period and under the currently centralized system,
CSPR has to carry out three main clusters of activities:
*     Registration of all loans and credits associated with the importation and distribution of modem
inputs;
Monitoring of seed-cotton procurement and delivery during the marketing season;
Channeling of all financial flows related to the payment by ginners of seed-cotton to producers and
of input credit by dealers to lending banks.
These activities would be managed through a main office in Cotonou and two regional offices in the two
main producing regions in the North and Center of the country. Each regional office would oversee
commercial branches at the Sous-prefecture levels as well as technical teams at the level of individual gins.
The main office in Cotonou would have 6 departments: four central services (Administration and Finances -
DAF; General Inspection - DGI; Operations Coordination - DOC; and Information Technology - DIT) and
two geographic units ( Center and North departments - DC and DN). The latter departments would be in
charge of the supervision of the work by the two regional offices and their affiliated branches and teams.
CSPR worked with SONAPRA to organize the 2000-2001 primary cotton marketing season. It would be
fully in charge starting from the 2001-2002 season. Village-level producer organizations would continue to
assemble seed-cotton from their members and work with CSPR and ginners to deliver cotton to individual
gins. During the 2-3 years transition period, it is expected that producers and ginners would continue to
collectively negotiate the price of seed-cotton based on a formula that would link it to the world market
price and allocate seed-cotton on the basis of ginning capacity. The payment system that was introduced
this year is likely to be maintained during the transition, that is: individual ginners would deposit 40 percent
of the value of their respective allocations with the CSPR; the remaining 60 percent would be paid for any
share of the quota that is delivered; the CSPR uses the advances to pay the input credit and distribute a first
round of payments to producers. Once the totality of seed-cotton has been delivered to the gins, producers
would be fully paid and the entire input credit recovered. The emerging system would fully satisfy the
short term goals of the reform process: ensure timely payment of seed-cotton by ginners and full recovery
of input credit by input dealers.
Under the current component technical and institutional support would be provided in order to build the
capacities of the Centrale and establish its credibility with respect to the lending local and intemational
banks through: (i) the provision of technical advisory services, including for carrying out studies,
collecting data, and preparing technical report; (ii) the provision of training; and (iii) the acquisition of
vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials.
- 30 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 4.60 million
C. Support to Federation des Unions de Producteurs (FUPRO) and its Member Organizations.
In its Declaration of Rural Development Policy, as well as in the Policy Framework Paper (Schema
Directeur du Developpement Agricole et Rural) and the associated Priority Action plan (Plan Strategique
Op6rationnel) adopted in July 2001, the Government of Benin has decided to refocus its role in the
agricultural and rural sector and promote greater participation by the private sector, particularly
Agricultural Producer Organizations (OPAs). The Government has since launched a reform process with
the objective of reducing state control over economic activities in the sector and transferring greater
responsibility in the process of policy making and implementation to OPAs and other stakeholders. These
changes and the political and administrative reforms that have been introduced recently have created an
environment in which producer organizations not only have to take on new responsibilities in critical areas
such the provision of agricultural services but also, as part of the local communities, are challenged to play
a greater role in economic policy and decision making. Agricultural Producer Organizations include 77
District Producers Unions (Unions Sous-prefecturales des Producteurs - USPP) at the commune level,
which are subdivided in more than 1500 village-level unions (Groupements Villageois - GV). The 77 USPP
are regrouped in 6 department-level unions (Unions Departementales des Producteurs - UDP), which are all
members of the national federation of producer organizations (Federation des Unions de Producteurs -
FUPRO).
In its efforts to confront this challenge, FUPRO has created about two years ago the agricultural inputs
supply and management cooperative (Cooperative d'Approvisionnement et de Gestion des Intrants
Agricoles - CAGIA). The objective of CAGIA is to take over from Government the organization of the
bidding process to award input import and distribution contracts.  It has also, together with the
organization of private ginners, created the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC), which is described
above and which provides a contracting framework within which producers and ginners, as well as other
concemed parties, would negotiate issues related to the production and marketing of cotton. Finally,
FUPRO has established this year, in collaboration with the associations of ginners and input traders a new
mechanism to ensure input credit access and recovery, the CSPR.
The proper operation of all three institutions, CAGIA, AIC, and CSPR, requires adequate participation of
FUPRO and its member organizations in the preparation, implementation, and monitoring of contractual
arrangements, which in tum calls for significant strengthening of their logistical, organizational, legal, and
technical capacities. Particularly during the next 2-to-3 year transition, when contracts are negotiated
centrally through FUPRO and its specialized agencies on behalf of the local producer organizations, it is
critical that the resulting obligations be adhered to and implemented by their wider membership. This too
creates a considerable demand on the capacities, both technical and institutional, of local organizations.
Although necessary at this stage in order to ensure a smooth transition, the centralized collective
contracting system that is being put in place would need to evolve gradually in order to move the
commercial and technical decision making process closer to local producer organizations. This transition is
necessary in order to empower producers and bring more competition into the sector. It would set the stage
for a decentralized system of contract-farming which would allow local producer groups to develop
transparent and competitive business relationships with individual ginning companies. Under such a
system, seed-cotton prices would be negotiated between ginners and producers at the local/regional level
and the allocation of seed-cotton based on ginning capacities would be phased out. Similarly, input
- 31 -



procurement, bank credit, as well as the provision of technical advisory services would be managed
primarily at the local level with the necessary support of the central institutions. Such a decentralized
system would strengthen the negotiating power of producer organizations. It would also allow the ginning
companies to better plan supply and other business activities. Furthermore, it would eliminate the risks of
rigidities and inefficiencies which, over time, would undermine the effectiveness of the current
arrangements. Finally, the decentralization of the commercial and technical decision process would allow
the central institutions, AIC, CAGIA, and CSPR, to better focus their activities and provide the collective
goods that cannot be intemalized at the level of production or ginning.
The current component would support the transition described above by strengthening the institutional and
technical capacities of producer organizations at all levels. It would focus on two major areas: (1)
national-level leadership and organizational strength and (2) commercial and technical capacities at the
local level. Under the first set of activities, it would provide training and other institutional support to (i)
reinforce the leadership and representational capacities of national producer organizations and (ii) improve
transparency and accountability among FUPRO's member organizations, from the top to the grass-roots.
In addition to the general institutional challenge that it poses to producer organizations, the emerging
environment will also require that the latter become technically and economically credible partners vis-a-vis
other operators in the sectors, in particular the cotton ginners, input importers, and commercial banks.
Consequently, the second set of activities would center around the necessary technical and institutional
support to create the necessary capacities at the level of the Unions Departementales des Producteurs
(UDPs) to allow them to successfully (i) fill the gap, in terms of technical and commercial support to
producers, that would result in the short run from SONAPRA's withdrawal from productive activities in
the sector and (ii) represent, in the medium to long run, the interests of their member farmers with respect
to ginners, commercial banks, input traders, and technical services delivery organizations, public as well as
private. The objective here is to build the capacities of local producer organizations as a pre-condition for
the transition toward a competitive contract farming system which would be based on contestable contracts
between individual ginning companies and local producer organizations. Under such a system, prices
would be negotiated between ginners and producers at the local/regional level and the allocation of
seed-cotton based on ginning capacities would be phased out.
The support that would be provided under the current component would include (i) the provision to
FUPRO and its member organizations of (i.a) technical advisory services, including for the management of
cotton cropping, input distribution, and output marketing activities and the carrying out of studies,
collecting data, and preparing technical report; (i.b) training and institutional support services; and (ii) the
acquisition of equipment, furniture, and materials.
Project Component 4 - US$4.75 million
D. Support to sector-wide Technical Services Programs.
SONAPRA has hitherto been responsible for the provision of sector-wide technical support services
through well structured programs covering areas ranging from research, extension, quality control, to
improved seed production. It used to finance these activities through levies on the price of seed cotton paid
by ginners. With the lifting of the monopoly of SONAPRA over seed cotton marketing, the private sector
is undertaking efforts to find altemative mechanisms to coordinate the financing, preparation, and
implementation of these programs. The current component would support these efforts by providing
assistance for the preparation and implementation, through AIC, of annual Sector-wide Technical Support
(STSP) Programs based on the sectoral agreements that are described in section 1 above (cf. Support to
the Interprofessional Cotton Association). These programs would have detailed action plans and budgets,
- 32 -



including counterpart financing arrangements, that would be agreed on by the main private sector
associations and government services, where applicable, and approved by the Project Steering Committee.
The STSP would be implemented by AIC through sub-contracting with services providers. A specialist
would be recruited and based in ST-AIC's Direction of Contracts and Agreements (DAC) to coordinate the
preparation and implementation of the STSP. The component would support technical services programs
in the areas of (i) environmentally sound cotton ginning and pest management practices; (ii) cotton
research and production of improved seeds; (iii) cotton quality control; (iv) training and extension services
for cotton farmers; (v) cotton price and income stabilization; and (vi) any future sector-wide technical
support programs that are agreed on by AIC and the Borrower and satisfactory to the Association. The
support would be provided through advisory services by services providers with experience and
qualification satisfactory to IDA.
The Project would finance on average 70 percent of the cost of these programs while the private sector,
through AIC, would contribute the remaining 30 percent. During the first two years of the project, IDA
would finance 80 percent of the costs of the programs. The IDA contribution would drop to 60 percent for
the last two years of the project. The support to the STSP would facilitate access to funding for
agricultural services and other critical commercial and technical services during the transition, while
helping the private sector develop more permanent institutional arrangements. For this purpose, the private
sector would set up by December 31, 2002, an independent Rural Development Fund, which would take
over the financing of these activities by the end of the project. The Fund would be financed through
contributions by producers, ginners, input distributors, exporters, and grants by the government. During
the implementation of the project, it would provide funding to AIC to co-finance STSP activities.
Project Component 5 - US$1.40 million
E. Support to the privatization of SONAPRA's ginning operations.
Under this component, support would be provided to the government of Benin to carry out a transparent
strategy to privatize the company's ginning plants, in line with the long terrn objectives of a competitive
cotton sector. A financial advisor would be engaged to advise the government on the implementation of the
privatization of the ginning plants.
In general, the process of privatizing the ginning plants would involve first the identification of the assets
that are to be transferred from public to private ownership. To this end, a complete inventory, itemization,
and description of all fixed assets would be completed. During appraisal, the Borrower was in the process
of finalizing the recruitment of the firm that would carry out this inventory.
The following are among the design parameters to be considered when carrying out the privatization
transaction:
(i)   the assets ownership, control, and transfer:  that is the form in which the assets would be
conveyed and the way in which assets would be combined to define the discrete entities to be privatized.
This step is critical as it would determine much about the future cotton industry's structure;
(ii)   the terms of the transaction: that is the conditions to be imposed on private operators, including
most importantly terms affecting investment, retention of employees, and acceptance of the conditions of
the cotton sector reform. A key transaction design feature would involve any contractual linkages that are
linked to the reform process and that would be conveyed with the privatized assets;
(iii)  the pre-qualification of private bidders: this would give the Government of Benin the great
advantage of determining what kinds of private firmns are most likely to invest in the cotton sector. The
"pre-qualification" decision is critical. Cotton is a global and competitive industry. The Government
- 33 -



would have to ensure that it attracts investors that have the incentives to commit resources to the sector in
the long run as well as the capacities to survive in the global cotton economy;
(iv)   the transaction method: that is the nature of the process of conveying the assets. Transaction
methods that are open, contestable, and transparent are likely to attract good investors and result in a better
deal for the Government.
Under the current component, advisory services would be provided through a financial advisor to (i) assess
alternative transaction designs and altemative ensembles of assets to be transferred, and (ii) advise the
Government on how best to design the transaction in order to support overall sector reform goals. In
addition, the financial advisor would (iii) prepare the transaction for completion ( e.g. documentation, due
diligence, offering memo preparation, etc.), (iv) market it to targeted offerors, and (v) assure that it is
carried out in full compliance with the law and through the most transparent methods. Furthermore, given
the instrumental role of the Cellule des Operations de Denationalisation ( COD) in the process, one of the
first steps would necessarily be to strengthen the capacity of this organization. Equipment, office furniture
and material would be provided, skilled staff recruited and trained and advisory services provided for the
elaboration of basic transaction processing guidelines.
Most likely, some employment would be suppressed with the reforms of the filiere. In particular, most of
SONAPRA's personnel that was in charge of primary marketing would lose their jobs. The CSPR, which
is taking over the organization of primary marketing, and too a lesser extent, AIC, would be encouraged to
give priority to qualified candidates among them in their recruitment efforts. CSPR has utilized the same
personnel, about 70 staff, during the last marketing campaign under an agreement with SONAPRA. For
those who would not find employment with CSPR or AIC, financial support would be provided for their
conversion on the basis of a program to be worked out between Government and SONAPRA's
management, in consultation with IDA, and to be adopted by June 2002. The cost of the conversion
program is expected to be modest and could be funded under the Borrower's budget which would be
supported under the Bank's budget support program.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Local      Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component            US $million  US $million   US $million
1. Support to AIC*                               3.55        0.60         4.15
2. Support to CSPR                               2.00         1.05         3.05
3. Support to FUPRO                              4.05         1.30         5.35
4. Support to STSP                               6.70        0.30          7.00
5. Privatization of SONAPRA's ginning operations  0.40       1.10          1.50
Total Baseline Cost                                                        21.05
Physical Contingencies                                                   1.05
Price Contingencies                                                     2.10
Total Proiect Costs                                                        24.20
Total Financing Required                                        24.20
A) Including project coordination and PPF
Local      Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category           US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods Equipment & Vehicles                       2.40        1.30          3.70
Consultants                                      10.42       2.98         13.40
Operational Costs                                3.40         0.00         3.40
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                0.33        0.22         0.55
Unallocated                                      2.64         0.51         3.15
Total Project Costs                                          24.20
Total Financing Required
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic analysis of the project has focused on the component related to the improvement of the
provision of commercial and technical services to producer organizations at the level of the Unions
Departementales de Producteurs (UDP). The other components (support to CSPR and AIC) deal with
activities that have more the character of public goods and whose benefits are not easy to measure. The
approach that is chosen focuses the analysis on (i) evaluating the key weaknesses in the area of services
deliveries in the context of a withdrawal of SONAPRA and (ii) identifying institutional and organizational
responses at the level of local organizations. By strengthening their commercial technical capacities, the
project would allow local producer organizations to become more viable business partners from the point of
view of commercial banks, ginning companies, and input distributors. Consequently, they are expected to
be able to continue to support their members to access and manage the necessary credit resources that are
needed to support production and hence avoid a collapse of the financing system. The support would also
allow the organizations to successfully take over the output marketing and input distribution functions
formally controlled by SONAPRA. On the other hand, the analysis assumes, without the project, a gradual
degradation in the conditions output marketing and input distribution, as well a reduction of access to credit
by cotton farmers. Although conventional economic and financial analyses have not been carried out
(these activities account only for a small share of overall project costs), the growth experience in the cotton
sector in Benin and elsewhere in West and Central African indicates that the project activities would yield
significant benefits.
The project would strengthen the capacities of local farmer organizations through technical assistance to
improve the management of cotton cropping, input distribution, and output marketing activities, as well as
training, other institutional support services and the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture, and
materials. In the absence of the project, the elimination of SONAPRA's monopoly and hence the
dismantling of the system of financing technical support services to cotton growers would lead to serious
weaknesses in the following critical areas, which all would have negative effects on profitability and growth
of cotton production, and hence on poverty among beneficiary farmers:
Extension services
sharp reduction in extension personnel
non-respect of the technical norms for the utilization of pesticides and other modem inputs
*     non-respect of cotton harvesting norms
Access to credit
deterioration of the credit monitoring and management system among village level organizations
*     increase in the level of indebtedness
*     reduced access to credit.
Seedcotton marketing
disruption of the organization of assembly markets
- 36 -



*      risk of higher crop losses due to poor storage and marketing logistics
*      less transparency in the management of seed cotton marketing, including the planning,
implementation, and supervision of seed-cotton deliveries to ginning companies
*      longer delay in seed-cotton payment
Accountability and transparency in the management of localfarmer organization (OPs)
*     less transparency in the management of OP resources
*      increased interference by local political elites
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
N/A
- 37 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Annex 5-A: Financial Summary by Donor
(in US $ million including Contingencies)
Foreign     Local    Total   % of Total
IDA                4.62     13.38    18.00        74.38
GOVERNMENT                        0.30     0.30         1.24
Beneficiaries          0.40     5.50     5.90        24.38
TOTAL                5.02     19.18    24.20         100
Annex 5-B: Financial Summary
Financing Plan during the Implementation Period
(in US $ million including contingencies)
Years ending
Donors             2002    2003       2004   2005          Total
IDA           0.50    5.50      6.00    6.00         18.00
GOVERNMENT         0.20    0.10       0.00    0.00         0.30
Beneficiaries     2.00    1.20      1.20    1.50         5.90
TOTAL           2.70    6.80      7.20    7.50         24.20
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Procurement
National Procedures. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Benin was carried out in
April 1999. The main recommendations for the country that are contained in the report are the following:
(a) improve the legal and institutional framework for procurement by government agencies; and (b) clarify
and strengthen the role and importance of procurement within the state apparatus. To this end, the report
suggested both short and long term measures, including (i) adoption of an official procurement manual; (ii)
establishment of the technical secretariat of the government's procurement office; (iii) updating of the
procurement law; (iv) promotion of national expertise in the area of procurement. For Bank projects, the
report has the following recommendations: (a) emphasize the importance of procurement planning and the
regular updating of procurement plans, as well as their relationship to budget planning; (b) pay increased
attention to procurement aspects during supervision missions, which are to be undertaken at least every 3
months; (c) prepare regular procurement reports reviewing individual projects' main procurement activities
and problems in this area; and (d) organize training for project staff and relevant ministries. An assessment
of the procurement capacities of the main implementing agencies would be carried out by appraisal. Its
recommendations, together with the ones outlined above, would be reflected in the project's implementation
arrangements and specified in the implementation manual. No special exceptions need to be specified in the
Credit Agreement, as in any case, IDA's guidelines take precedence over local regulations.
Guidelines.   Procurement of goods and works, financed by the IDA Credit, will be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit (January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). The project would use the
Bank's standard bidding documents and evaluation report for all procurement under ICB. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally, would be carried out in accordance with Benin's
procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that : (a) all bidders are given sufficient
time to submit bids (four weeks); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are explicitly specified in the
bidding documents; (c) bids are opened in public; (d) no bid is rejected during the bid opening ceremony;
(e) no margin of preference is granted to domestic contractors and manufacturers; (f) award is made to the
lowest evaluated bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and (g) eligible
bidders, including foreign bidders, are not excluded from bidding. The above conditions regarding
National Competitive Bidding would be specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
Consultant services, financed by the IDA Credit, will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for the
solicitation of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-tem assignments, those not exceeding
six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
Advertising Procedures. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN
Development Business and in a National paper of wide circulation as provided for in the Guidelines. The
borrower shall maintain a list of responses to the Notice. The GPN would be updated annually as long as
there are outstanding procurement that has to be carried out using ICB procedures. Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN) would be required for goods procured by ICB and NCB, and for "Expression of Interest"
for consultant services contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent. SPNs would be published in at least
one newspaper of national circulation and transmitted to those who have expressed interest in bidding in
response to the General Procurement Notice. Publication in the UTNDP and transmittal to embassies and
trade representatives of countries of likely suppliers, contractors and consultants are also encouraged.
- 39 -



As a promotional measure and to create awareness in the private sector (suppliers of equipment and spare
parts, and local consultants), ST-AIC would prepare and publish annually, in local newspapers of wide
circulation, a Promotional Procurement Notice (PPN) of business opportunities, using a format to be
prepared and included in the PIM. The PPN would contain information on estimated demand and contract
opportunities.
Procurement Implementation.
A procurement capacity assessment of ST-AIC has been carried out during appraisal. The procurement
assessment has led to an action plan to strengthen the institution's procurement capacity, including the
following measures: (i) hiring of a qualified procurement specialist; (ii) presentation of a satisfactory
annual consolidated procurement plan for the project's first year, including procurement on behalf of
CSPR, FUPRO, and COD, before negotiations; (iii) adoption of a project implementation manual
satisfactory to IDA and specifying the procurement procedures, before project effectiveness; and (iv)
quarterly procurement supervision missions during the first two years of the project.
ST-AIC would be responsible for all procurement activities, including on behalf of CSPR, FUPRO, and
COD. Through its procurement specialist, it would oversee the procurement of equipment, materials, and
supplies, as well as the contracting of consultants for training, studies, evaluations, and external audits. It
would prepare and update the procurement plan, prepare bidding documents, participate in the bid
evaluations, and monitor and manage the execution of contracts. UDPs would be responsible for
procurement for activities that are carried out at the local levels by farmer organizations and involving
contracts in amounts not exceeding the equivalent of US$7,500. Such activities are primarily limited to
small equipment and the hiring of local consultants to carry out simple studies. Procurement for contracts
exceeding this amount would be consolidated at the level of FUPRO and carried out through ST-AIC.
ST-AIC's procurement specialist would review the procurement plans, bidding documents, participate in
bid evaluations or evaluate the bids (depending on the value of the bids), and monitor the execution of
contracts. It would document the experience for analysis by Bank procurement missions and carry out any
required measures to improve on the procurement methods where necessary.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB         NCB        Other'   N.B.F.   Total Cost
I Goods vehicles equipments    1.30       2.30         0.10                3.70
(0.90)     (2.30)      (0.10)              (3.30)
2 Consultant Services; audits              1.00        8.45      3.95      13.40
(1.00)      (8.45)              (9.45)
3 Incremental operating cost                            2.40     1.00       3.40
(2.40)              (2.40)
4 Project preparation facility (PPF)                    0.55                0.55
(0.55)              (0.55)
5 Unallocated                                          2.30      0.85       3.15
(2.30)              (2.30)
Total                        1.30       3.30        14.70      5.90     24.20
(0.90)     (3.30)      (13.80)             (18.00)
-40 -



"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
managing the project.
Goods. ICB procedures would apply for the procurement of furniture, equipment, vehicles and computers,
totaling US$1.3 million. Contracts for the above goods are estimated to cost US$200,000 and above each.
Goods estimated to cost between less than US$200,000 and US$10,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.30 million would be awarded based on NCB procedures as described in the
PIM. Goods procured by local farmer groups (UDPs) and small items for office equipment, supplies as
well as small equipment and furniture that are locally available and cost less than US$10,000 per contract
and up to an aggregated amount of US$0.10 million would be procured on the basis of the comparison of at
least three quotations from reputable suppliers. The request for quotations would be in writing which
would include an invitation to submit written quotations setting the deadline for the submission of
quotations and opening them at the same time, technical specifications, the payment conditions and the
delivery date. Aggregate values for the different procurement methods have a limited nature and would not
be exceeded without prior IDA approval. For this purpose, ST-AIC would maintain a procurement
tracking system to notify IDA on time when these limits are approached. For procurement by the local
farmer groups (UDPs), which is limited to contract amounts below the equivalent of US$7,5000, simplified
documents acceptable to the Bank would be used. These simplified documents would be included in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Consultants and other services financed by IDA would be for: (i) advisory services under the Sector-wide
Technical Services Programs (STSP); (ii) studies, data collection, impact analysis; (iii) financial and
technical audits; and (iv) training -- skills gap analysis, skills development- and training of staff from the
various agencies and institutions, including farmer organizations, that are  involved in project
implementation activities. The selection procedures would consist of: (a) Quality-and Cost-Based selection
(QCBS) for firms, including for the preparation of the privatization of SONAPRA; (b) Least Cost selection
(LCS) for technical and financial audits for contracts costing less than US$100,000; (c) Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) for individual consultants, and (d) simplified procedures as described in the PIM for
contracts under US$7,500 by FUPRO member organizations. Contracts for the training of local fanner
groups may be awarded on the basis of Selection under a Fixed-budget (SFB).
-41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Bank prior review (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category       (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1 Goods*               More than US$200,000              ICB            All
equivalent
More than US$ 10,000 and         NCB            Equal to or more than
less than US$200,000                            US$50,000 and the first
equivalent                                      five contracts regardless
of cost
Less than US$ 10,000           NS or LS         Equal to or more than
equivalent                                      US$50,000 and the first
five contracts regardless
of cost
2. Services
A. Firms*                                                QCBS           Equal to or more
than US$50,000
equivalent; first
five contracts and
all TORs
regardless of cost
B. Auditors            Less than US$100,000               LCS           Equal to or more
equivalent                                      than US$50,000
equivalent
C. Individuals                                            CQ            Equal to or more
than US$25,000
equivalent and all
TORs regardless
their cost.
OVERALL PROCUREMENT RISK ASSESSMENT
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3 month(s) for the first two
years and every 6 month(s) thereafter (includes special procurement supervisions for post-review/audits)
Procurement Plan. A draft overall procurement and an annual plan for the first year of the project have
been prepared during appraisal. The overall procurement plan would cover the entire project period, and
the specific procurement plan for the first year of the project, would show contract packages, estimated
- 42 -



cost and procurement method, and processing times per package until completion (including bidding
documnents for items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the project). Procurement for activities
implemented by UDPs would be determined during project implementation. ST-AIC, through its
procurement specialist, would review UDP procurement activities in order to ensure that they are being
carried out in conformity with the adopted procedures. Every year, ST-AIC would prepare and submit to
IDA, for review and comments, a specific procurement plan for the particular year as part of its annual
work program.
Goods. The first five contract regardless of cost and contracts for amount exceeding the equivalent of
US$50,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA. Selective post-reviews of contracts awarded below
the threshold level would be subject to post review by IDA during supervision missions. The prior review
threshold would be reviewed if deemed necessary at the midterm review based on the procurement record of
the Secretariat
Consultant services. All terms of reference excluding those with standard terms of reference provided in
the Project Implementation Manual, and all single source selection, regardless of contract cost, would be
subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$25,000 for individuals and more than
US$50,000 for firms would be subject to prior review procedures. For consultants contracts estimated to
cost above US$50,000, opening of the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's
no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to all other contracts subject to post review
will be maintained by the project for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA during supervision missions.
Procurement supervision and technical audit
Once every three months, a supervision mission would be carried out during the first two years of the
project and thereafter once every six months, provided satisfactory project performance. During these
missions, a selective post review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels would be carried out and
would cover at least one of every five contracts. The project's procurement activities would be subject to
annual technical audits carried out separately during financial audits.
2. Disbursement
Basic Principles
ST-AIC's Director of Administration and Finance (DAF) would be entrusted with the Project's overall
financial management and reporting and would serve as the principal contact for Bank disbursement
purposes. All eligible expenses of an amount not exceeding 20 percent of the authorized special account
allocation would be financed by ST-AIC through the special account. Expenses above that level would be
financed through direct payment from the Credit Account. No advance payment would be made to
participating implementing agencies (CSPR, FUPRO, COD). ST-AIC would pay from the special account
all eligible expenses in amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$15,000 directly on behalf of these
agencies. Eligible expenses under these respective thresholds would be pre-financed and the necessary
documentation submitted to ST-AIC for reimbursement. CSPR, FUPRO, and COD would regularly
submit to AIC detailed budget programs for the project activities that they implement. These budgets
would be reviewed and approved by the Project Steering Committee. Programs of activities and budgets, as
well as expenses at the level of individual UDPs would be channeled through FUPRO.
-43 -



Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
Use of SOEs would be contingent upon a satisfactory assessment of the ST-AIC's financial management
capacity, including the maintenance of proper accounts, the preparation of project progress reports, the
ability to process and maintain SOE documentation, and satisfactory annual auditing arrangements.
Provided these conditions are met, all expenses related to contracts costing up to US$50,000 for goods,
US$25,000 for Individual Consultants, and US$50,000 for Firms would be claimed on the basis of
SOEs.The supporting documentation underlying all SOEs would be made available for review by Bank
supervision missions, which would include a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist.
Supporting documentation would be retained by ST-AIC, with the exception of documentation at UDP
levels, which would be retained in the field. The primary responsibility of maintaining the records rests on
the DAF.
Counterpart Fund Accounts
The Borrower would open at a commercial bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Project
Account A to receive the counterpart funds that are needed to cover the Borrower's share of investment
costs under the privatization component that are not financed by IDA. AIC would open at a commercial
bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a second Project Account B to receive beneficiaries'
counterpart funds that are needed to cover the share of investment costs under the remaining components of
the project that are not financed by IDA.  Before project effectiveness, Government would deposit into
Project Account A an initial contribution of CFAF 50,000,000 and thereafter replenish said account up to
the initial amount of CFAF 50,000,000 at the end of each project quarter until the completion of the
privatization component of the Project, or whenever its balance would fall below CFAF 25,000,000.
Government would ensure that amounts deposited into Project Account A would be used exclusively to
make payments to meet expenditures for goods and services under the privatization component of the
Project.
Similarly, AIC would deposit into the Project Account B an initial contribution of CFAF 300,000,000 and
thereafter replenish said account up to the initial amount of CFAF 300,000,000 at the end of each project
quarter until the completion of the Project, or whenever its balance would fall under CFAF 150,000,000.
AIC would ensure that (i) amounts deposited into the Project Account A would be used exclusively to make
payments to meet expenditures for goods and services under the privatization component and (i) amounts
deposited into the Project Account B for payments to meet expenditures for goods and services under the
remaining components of the Project.
- 44 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ million           Financing Percentage
l.a. Equipment, vehicles,                                          100% Foreign
furniture, and materials under             2.3                       85% local
Components A, B, C, and E
I.b. Equipment, vehicles,
furniture, and materials under             1.0                 80% until December 2003
Component D                                                       and 60% thereafter
2.a. Consultant services, training,       6.45                          70%
and audit under Components A, B,
C, andE
2.b. . Consultant services,,              3.00                 80% until December 2003
training, and audit under                                         and 60% thereafter
Component D
80% until December 2003
3. Operating Costs                         2.4                    and 60% thereafter
4. Refunding of Project Preparatior
Advance                                   0.55
5. Unallocated                            2.30
Total                        18.00
Assumptions:    15% of the total amount of the credit is considered unallocated
$US 550,000 is the equivalent amount of the PPF
3. Financial Management
Basic Principles
The management of the project's financial resources would be entirely the responsibility of AIC's
Technical Secretariat, and would be carried out by the Director of Administration and Finance (DAF), and
under the supervision of its Permanent Secretary. For the proper management of financial resources, AIC
would ensure the establishment of an adequate accounting system, internal control procedures, preparation
and submission of periodic financial statements. It would also ensure that the project's annual financial
statements, as well as the accounts of the participating implementing agencies (CSPR and FUPRO) are
audited regularly, in a timely manner, and in conformity with IDA requirements. The DAF would monitor
all project disbursements. He would ensure that all expenditures made under the project are eligible and
incurred for the purposes intended.  For this purpose, the establishment of an adequate financial
management system that is satisfactory to IDA, including the adoption of a satisfactory manual of
procedures conform to OP/BP 10.02, would be a condition of project effectiveness. Furthermore, the
recruitment of staff having qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, including the Director of
Administration and Finance, would be a condition of board presentation. Finally, before project
-45 -



effectiveness, the borrower would open a special account (SA) at a commercial bank, on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, where the Credit resources would be deposited to finance the project
activities.
Flow offunds
The special account would be managed by AIC's Technical Secretariat, through its Director of
Administration and Finance, and under the supervision of the Permanent Secretary. AIC would submit
withdrawal applications through the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), as required by extemal
finance procedures prevailing in Benin. All withdrawal applications would have to be signed by authorized
CAA representatives, as designated by the Minister of Finance. AIC would pay for all eligible project
expenses, including on behalf of the three participating implementing agencies, CSPR, FUPRO, and COD.
Eligible expenses not greater than the equivalent of US$15,000, may be pre-financed by the participating
agencies and reimbursed upon presentation of proper documentation to the Technical Secretariat. No
advance payments would be made.
Auditing arrangements
The financial statements of the project would be audited by an independent firm of professional auditors.
The auditing firm would be selected in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Bank's
Consultant Guidelines applicable to quality-and cost-based selection of consultants and under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. On the borrower's request, the audit costs would be financed by the project
under consultant services. The auditing firm would be recruited at the latest by December 3 1, 2001, and a
corresponding dated covenant would be included in the Development Credit Agreement. On the borrower's
request, the audit costs would be financed by the project under consultant services. The applicable terms of
reference, which would be acceptable to IDA, would ensure that the Special Account is audited in
accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. In addition to the
opinion on project financial statements, the auditors would be required to provide separate opinions on the
SOEs and the management and utilization of the Special Account as well of the two Project Accounts A
and B. In line with general audit practice, the auditors would also issue a management report with
practical recommendations for improvement in the project's accounting and intemal control system where
necessary. The audit report would be submitted no later than 6 months after the end of each year. Between
individual audits, CAA's Project Control Unit (Cellule de Suivi des Projets - CSP) would monitor the
quality of the financial management of the project. It would regularly examine the accounts and records of
AIC and review disbursement activities as well as actions taken by the Secretariat to follow up on audit
recommendations.
Also, each fiscal year, the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) of the main two participating implementing agencies, CSPR and
FUPRO, would be audited by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to IDA. CSPR and FUPRO would furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each year an audit report, including certified copies of the
audited financial statements and an opinion on such statements. The report would be satisfactory to IDA in
terms of scope and detail. The two agencies would also furnish to IDA any additional information
conceming the above records, accounts, financial statements, the audit, and the auditors, as IDA may from
time to time reasonably request.
- 46 -



Financial reporting
The project would be required to submit quarterly Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) as indicated in the
Bank's Project Financial Management Manual of February 1999. However, it is to be expected that
ST-AIC's financial management staff and the Director of Administration and Finance, in particular, would
need some time and very close guidance in order to correctly carry out this task. It is therefore unlikely that
the project would be able to produce immediately all the 12 reports required under the new FINMI
(ex-LACI) procedures. It is expected, however, that the project should be able to generate the complete
PMRs within 18 months after project effectiveness.
Financial management capacity assessment
An assessment of the capacities of the Technical Secretariat of AIC has been carried out in March 2001.
The Secretariat has been set up early this year and did not have yet the necessary financial management
staff, which then consisted only of an assistant accountant. Although the Director of Administration and
Finance, with strong experience in Bank financed projects, has been recruited recently, the financial
management system does not meet the requirements of the proposed project at this stage. AIC is in the last
stages of finalizing the recruitment of a firm to work together with the Director of Administration and
Finance and finalize the elaboration of the accounting and reporting systems, intemal control system, and
financial reporting format. The work is in progress and a draft manual of procedures would be available
for review and discussion during negotiations. Although substantial at this stage, the financial management
risks would be dealt with adequately before project implementation, the establishment of a satisfactory
financial management system, both in terms of its personnel and management procedures, being a condition
of effectiveness.  As part of the assessment, an action plan to strengthen the Secretariat's capacities in
order to meet the requirements of a satisfactory financial management system has been prepared and agreed
on with AIC during appraisal. The detailed plan is presented in Annex 12.
Special account:
The Government would open a Special Account (SA) in CFA Francs in the name of the Technical
Secretariat of AIC (ST-AIC) at a commercial Bank of its choice and which is acceptable to IDA, to which
project funds would be deposited. The purpose of the special account is to ensure that most if not all credit
funds are disbursed through this procedure, with ST-AIC relying as little as possible on direct payments
from Washington. Only amounts exceeding 20 percent of the amount advanced to the special accounts
could be claimed through the direct payment procedure. The authorized allocation of the Special Account
would amount to CFAF 500 million. ST-AIC would receive an initial deposit CFAF 250 million to
commence operations. The advance would be increased to CFAF 500 million once full execution begins
and cumulated disbursements reach SDR 3.0 million. For subsequent disbursements, ST-AIC would
submit appropriate justification on the use of amounts disbursed earlier (bank reconciliation statements and
other reasonable documentation) to IDA. The Special Account would be audited annually by external
auditors acceptable to IDA. At the time when replenishment of the SA is requested, ST-AIC would
indicate on the reconciliation statements the location and amounts outstanding in each decentralized
advance account.
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Project Schedule                                    Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        10                            13
First Bank mission (identification)               10/02/2000                    12/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       07/17/2001                    06/19/2001
Negotiations                                      09/10/2001                    09/20/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     10/30/2001                    04/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries (MAEP)
Preparation assistance:
FAO/CP; Agence Fran9aise de Cooperation (AFD); Cooperation Suisse.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Ousmane Badiane                     Sr. Agr. Economist
Mamou Ehui                         Agr. Economist
Nicolas Ahouissoussi                Sr. Agr. Economist
Hugues Agossou                      Financial Management Specialist
Eric Boucheny                      Sr. Private Sector Development
Wilda Sajous                       Program Assistant
Yvette Abaglo                      Procurement Officer
Desire Coquillat                   Financial Management Specialist;
Lydie Ahodehou                     Team Assistant
Jiro Tominaga                      Young Professional
Jean-Charles de Daruvar            Sr. Counsel
Agnes Albert-Loth                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Remi Kini                          Environmental Economist
Quality Assurance Team members: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager (AFTR2): Managing quality
assurance process; Willem Zijp, Lead Operations Specialist (AFTQK): Overall operational quality; H. P. Van der
Wulp, Inegrated Pest Management (RDV); Christian Pieri, Integrated Nutrient Management (RDV); Naima Hasci,
Sr. Social Scientist (AFTI1); B. de Chazal, Sr. Financial Management (AFTQK); Asha Ayoung, Sr. Procurement
Specialist (AFTQK).
- 48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Hugues Agossou, Financial Management Specialist (AFMBJ)
Yvette Abaglo, Procurement Officer (AFMTG)
Remi Kini, Environmental Economist (AFTE1)
Naima Hasci, Sr. Social Scientist (AFTI1)
Agnes Albert-Loth (Sr. Financial Management Specialist, LOAGI)
C. Other
Agro-Industrie et Developpment. Support Institutionnel d'un dispositif de gestion
interprofessionnelle de lafilre coton. 1999
Association Interprofessionelle du Coton (AIC). Note sur la crisefinanciere actuelle du coton
et approches de solutions 2001.
Association Interprofessionelle du Coton (AIC). Support de la gestion interprofessionnelle de
lafiliere. Nd.
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC). Rapport de la Cellule d'Appui Technique.
1999.
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC). Convention de Prestations de Services
entre la CSPR-GIE et la SONAPRA pour la campagne 2000-2001.
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC). Compte Rendu de la mission de terrain
effectue par le Secretariat Permanent du 2 au 13 Aouit. 2001.
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC).  Rapport d'activites du Secretariat
Permanent. 2001.
Bioche F. et al. Etude sur I'Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC). Rapport
provisoire. 2000
CAGIA/FUPRO. Rapport de base pour une gestion decentralisee des stocks tampon d 'intrants
coton par les organisations professionnelles agricoles. Nd.
Cellule d'Appui Techniques a I'AIC (CAT). Mise en place de la gestion interprofessionnelle
de lafiliere coton. 1999.
- 49 -



Federation des Unions de Producteurs du Benin. Status et reglement interieur. 1995
FUPRO/APEB/GPDIA. R6un ion de validation de l'etude de conception de la Centrale de
Seurisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPR). Proces Verbal. 2000.
FUPRO/UDP-ZOU/AFD.   Compte Rendu de l'atelier national d'information  et de
sensibilisation sur la problmatique de la gestion interprofessionnelle de lafiliere coton. 1999.
Horus Enterprises. Creation d 'une Centrale de Seurisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement
pour lafiliere cotonniere. Etude de conception. 2000
Kanho, M. Z. Rapport d 'audit environnemental des usines d 'egrenage de la SONAPRA - Benin
.2001.
Republic of Benin. Etude d'ouverture du capital de la SONAPRA. Rapport Principal.
Prepared by Horus Entreprises. MECCAG. 1999.
Republic of Benin. Declaration de Politique de Developpement Rural. MDR, 2001.
Republic of Benin. Schema Directeur du Developpement Agricole et Rural du Benin. Plan
Strat6gique Operationnel. MDR. 2001.
Republic of Benin. Atelier Bilan sur le transfert des activites et des competences aux
organisations paysanes. Lokassa, April 7-9, 1999. MDR
Republic of Benin. Schema directeur du developpement Rural du Benin. 2000. MDR
Republic of Benin. Etude desfilieres des intrants agricoles au Benin. Tomes 1, 2, 3. 2000 MDR
Republic of Benin. Rapport general de seminaire national sur la lib&alisation de la filiere
coton au Benin. 2000.
*Including electronic fifes
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
07-Dec-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P037580       2000 NAT PARKS CONS.& MGT                                0.00       0.00                 6.00       0.00       5.47      -0.87      0.00
P039882       2000 PRIVATE SECTOR                                      0.00      30.40                 0.00       0.00      16.59     -10.99      0.00
P067329       2000 Distance Leaming Project - LIL                      0.00       1.83                 0.00       0.00       0.75      14.05      0.79
P070204       2000 Labor Force Development Project                     0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.72       1.15      0.00
P035648        1999 1ST DECEN.CITY MGMT.                               0.00      25.50                 0.00       0.00      16.90      12.91      0.00
P057345       1998 BORGOU PILOT RSP                                    0.00       4.00                 0.00       0.00       0.74       0.76      0.00
P035645       1998 SOCIAL FUND                                         0.00      16.70                 0.00       0.00       6.12      -0.63      -3.62
P000117       1997 TRANSPORT SECTOR                                    0.00      40.00                 0.00       0.00       8.62      12.35      0.00
P000118        1995 POPULATION AND HEALT                               0.00      27.80                 0.00       0.00       5.97      10.38     10.38
P000112        1995 ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ                               0.00       8.00                 0.00       0.00       1.98       2.66      2.52
P000103       1994 EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       0.00      18.10                 0.00       0.00       4.60       5.17      5.10
Total:       0.00      177.33               6.00         0.00      72.46      46.94      15.17
BENIN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                    Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic
1994                      Equipbail-Benin                           0.00       0.10        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.10        0.00       0.00
2000                      FINADEV                                   0.00       0.33        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
1991/93/95                AEF BOAB                                  0.00       0.02        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.02        0.00       0.00
1995                      AEF Union Benin                           0.00       0.08        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.08        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                  0.00       0.53        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.20        0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                       Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
1999                     SOBAC                                         0.00          0.00         0.08          0.00
2000                     FINADEV                                        1.41         0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                     1.41         0.00          0.08         0.00
- 51 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BENIN: Cotton Sector Reform Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Benin     Africa   Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                          6.3       659      2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      380        480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                         2.4       313      1,030
Avaraga annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                           2.8       2.6        1.9     GNI                               Grs
Labor force (%)                                          2.9       2.6        2.4     per    I                      I primary
Most recent estimata (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    33
Urban population (% of total Population)                 42         34        32
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                         53         47        59
Infant mortalitv (Per 1.000 live births)                 87         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               29                                 Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (I% of population)    63         55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     60         36        38
Gross PrimarV enrollment (% of school-age Population)    78         78        96       -8enin   -  Low-income group
Male                                                   98         85       102
Female                                                 57         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATtOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS.
19t     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                             1.4       1.8       2.4        2.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 15.2      14.2      17.6       19.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             15.8      14.3      16.7       15.6
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                     -6.3      2.2       6.4        6.3
Gross national savinas/GDP                     1.1       5.8      11.7       11.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -14.0      -5.1      -5.9       -7.6     Domestic                      Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                          0.2       0.8       0.8        06      savings
Total debt/GDP                                30.2      70.0      71.2       70.7     svn
Total debt service/exports                     4.9       8.0      14.6       17.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                         40.1
Present value of debt/exports                                    198.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040      1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.5      4.7       5.0       5.0        6.0             8enin       Low-income group
GDP per capita                       -0.7      1.8       2.1       2.2        3.2
Exports of goods and services        -4.3      4.3      24.7      -2.4       24.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19#0     1990       1999      2000      Growth of inv*stmant and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            100
Agriculture                                   35.4      36.1      37.9       37.1
Industrv                                      12.3      13.2      13.8       13.8     sa
Manufacturina                                8 O       7.8        8.3       8.3
Services                                      52,3      50.7      48.3       49.1          o             1-
Private consumPtion                           97'.7     86.8      83.5       82.3    .5O
General government consumDtion                 &6       11.0      10.1       113               -GDI           COGDP
Imports of goods and services                 37.3      26.3      28.0       28.2
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averape annual pro wt h)6
Aariculture                                    5.1       6.3       4.7        5.0             C
Industrv                                       3.4       3.9       3.2        74      2s
Manufacturing                                 5.1      5.6        6.5       7 0
Services                                       0.7       4.5        5.8       4.3    25             Os   97   BB   99
Private consumption                            1.9       4.0       0.8        3.2      5
General oovernmentconsumption                  0t5       4.2       116      198      sn
Gross domestic investment                     -5,3       5.3      11.1        97             -     Exports     m mports
Imports of goods and services                 -6C2      2.5        8.3        3.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Econonics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv On bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missinag the diamond will
- 52 -



Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  50
N% change)
Consumer prices                               ..      1.1       0.3       3.5
ImplicitGDPdeflator                         10.2      1.6       2.1       5.1    30
Government finance                                                                o 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..      9.2      16.1      15.9            95   96   97   96   99
Current budget balance                         ..    -5.4        5.1      3.6             -     GDPdenator    0CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -10.8      -1.2      -3.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   118       236      246    500
Ginned Cotton                                ..      80        194      208
CrudeOil                                     ..      26
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cif)                           ..    298         461      453    2S0
Food                                         ..      78        141      139
Fuel and energy                              ..      31        59        80
Capital goods                                       157       258       254      o
94   95  96  97  99    9    t
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..
Import price index (1995=1 00)                ..       ..        ..        ..              * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US    f millions)
Exports of goods and services                306      402       397      360
Imports of goods and services                608      563       665      651                1 1 1 1*                 1
Resource balance                            -302    -161       -267      -90       s*       -    -    -  
Net income                                    -3      -39       -18       -17
Net current transfers                        107      105       145       136
Current account balance                     -197      -95      -141      -172    -10
Financing items (net)                        178      205       148       164
Changes in net reserves                       19    -110         -7         7     -15
Memo:
Reserves including qold (USS millions)        ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           211.3   272.3       615.7    712.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         424    1,292      1,686    1,599
IBRD                                         0        0         0        0                      G 72
IDA                                         52      326       574      578                  F: 3
Total debt service                            20       38        70        77
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0                                     5:78
IDA                                          0        3        10        10        E:493
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             41      110        98
Otficial creditors                          56      102        35        17
Private creditors                            0        0         0         0
Foreign direct investment                    4        1        31                              _      _   c: 84
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                            0: 369
World Bank program
Commitments                                 10        3        56         7     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12       56        49        37     B - IDA    0- Other multlateral   F - Private
Principal repaVments                         0        1         6         6     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                    12       55        43        30
Interest payments                            0        2         4         4
Net transfers                               12       53        39        26
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                      1111/01
- 53 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental Assessment
Introduction
The development objective of Cotton Sector Reform Project (CSPR) is to effect a successful transition
from the current monopolistic and centrally administered system to a more competitive cotton sector that
would result in higher efficiency and productivity. Among other things, the key project performance
indicators include: (i) the increase in seed-cotton yields; (ii) the increase in overall sector incomes; (iii) the
change in the share of income going to producers; (iv) the success of the private sector in meeting the
demand for modem inputs, both in terms of quantity and quality; (v) the satisfaction of farmers with
respect to the quality of the leadership of local and apex producer organizations; and (vi) the satisfaction of
producers, ginners, and input distributors with respect to the quality of technical services.
On the basis of the planned activities, a B environmental category has been assigned to the CSRP. The
application of the environmental and social safeguards focuses on the safeguard policies that have the
strongest bearing on the Project. These include the policy on environmental assessment (OP 4.01), and the
policy on pest management (OP 4.09). The environmnental assessment study describes (i) how the Project
triggers these policies, and (ii) the environmental management plan that would be designed to control the
adverse environmental effects associated with the implementation of the Project. The environmental study
has two parts dealing respectively with the operation of the cotton gins plants, and pest management. The
pest management evaluates current practices in the handling, storage, and use of pesticides, and recommend
measures that ensure better protection of the users, the environment, and provide better and more efficient
ways of controlling pests. The summary of the studies is provided below.
Environmental Audit of the Cotton Gin Plants
The application of the operational policy on environmental assessment consisted in conducting an
environmental audit of the cotton ginning plants. The study was to (i) assess the compliance with
environmental regulations, (ii) assess past and current contamination, as well as pollution risks, and (iii)
recommend measures required to improve compliance with national regulations, and mitigate past damages,
if necessary. The objective is to provide baseline environmental information and requirements that would
be included in the bidding documents, in order to integrate the costs of the required environmental
restoration/protection measures into the planned investments. The environmental audit is structured around
the following issues: (i) scope of the audit, (ii) methods/criteria used, (iii) results, and (iv) proposed
measures.
Scope of the audit
The environmental audit covers the ginning plants owned and operated by SONAPRA, the parastatal
responsible for managing service delivery and input/output supply and trade in the cotton sub-sector. Out
of the eighteen (18) ginning plants in Benin (operating at 60 percent of installed production capacity), ten
are currently operated by SONAPRA and would be privatized under the Project. It is these ten plants that
are subject to the audit. The audit sought to identify the past, current, and future environmental and social
liabilities associated with the activities of the concemed ginning plants. The issues examined include the
following:
-54 -



* Emissions to air;
. Releases to water;
. Waste generation;
* Contamination of land;
. Use of raw materials and natural resources; and
* Occupational and safety hazards.
Methods and Criteria Used
Three major criteria are used in assessing the past, current, and future environmental impacts of the ginning
plants. These are: (i) existence of internal procedures and practii.es pertaining io business environmental
systems and compliance with such procedures; (ii) efficiency and safety of production processes; and (iii)
overall environmental performance of the plants based on Benin Fnvironmryental Act (L.oi-cadre, Titre IV,
des Sanctions).  Wh7hen necessary international standards, namely ISO  14000 are used to supplement
national regulations.
Results of the Audit
Overall, the environmental performance of the ginning plants is low. 'IThis unsatisfactory performance is
due to (i) nonexistence of clear and written environmental management procedures, (ii) lack of specific and
agreed upon environmental management targets, and (iii) lack of capacity to deal effectively with
environmental issues related to plant operations.  The following areas are those where significant
improvement would be needed:
*      Air pollution (indoor and outdoor): Cotton ginning generates dust both within and beyond the
plant. Some practices and dust control-equipment are in place, but do not seem to be effective. Dust
concentration inside the plants are not known, but both plant workers and the neighiboring populations may
be exposed to ambient air characterized by relatively high concentration of dust, especially in the immediate
surroundings of the plants. In some locations, the level of cotton dust concentration is so high that it
impedes the growth of the trees that have been planted to reduce human and property exposure. In some
neighboring communities, eye infections have been mentioned are the consequence of air pollution y the
plants. In general, these plants do not comply with existing regulations on air pollution;
*      Wastewater discharge and solid and liquid wastes: wastewater, grease, and solid wastes are not
properly managed on plant sites.  As a result, these wastes clogged the drains and get mixed with
stormwater. The potential for soil and water pollution is real and could result in severe to moderate
adverse impact on the natural resources and human populations located near the plants. When waste is
disposed of, this is not done appropriately, that is, sanitary procedures including treatment and site
selection are not followed;
*      Emergency preparedness and response capaci: emnergency plans for fire accident exist, but there
are no written procedures, and the teams supposed to activate the plans are not trained. The plants rely on
power generators for energy supply. The fuel supplied to these generators is stored in underground storage
tanks for which there is no emergency plan for accidental spills, and no written requirements or procedures
for maintenance;
*      Hazardous materials: The handling of hazardous waste including pesticides, paint, and medical
waste could be improved. Additional precaution is needed particularly with the transportation and storage
of products (safety related to location, verification of containers, disposal of empty containers), and the
- 55 -



treatment of medical waste;
*     Occupational hazards: Cases of bodily injuries including severe harm, amputation, and at least
one loss of life have been reported. These accidents occur both during plant operations and routine
maintenance of equipment, but record keeping in this area is poor.
Proposed Environmental Management Measures
The audits results have been discussed with the Ministry of Rural Development, SONAPRA, the Ministry
of Enviromnent, and the National Environmental Agency (BAE). The measures proposed to address the
environmental problems caused by the cotton ginning plants are of several types and include the following:
* Enforcement of national regulations to ensure full compliance of plants with safety and emission
standards;
. Formulation and adoption of environmental awareness raising programs within the plants and without to
sensitize the surrounding populations on the environmental problems, and the best way to mitigate them;
* Adoption of environmental management plans in order to control air emission, treat and dispose of
wastes, and protect workers from exposure to harmful substances, heat, dust, malfunctioning equipment;
* Training of the key people responsible for implementing the environmental management plans of the
plants, and improving record keeping;
* Integrating environmental management at plant level with the local or municipal environmental
management plans, especially, for waste treatment, handling of hazardous substances (transport, storage,
treatment, and disposal), and awareness raising.
Tlhe institutional framework for implementing these measures is composed of SONAPRA, local, and
governments, and the central government (Ministry of Environment, and the Benin environmental agency).
The indicative cost of the environmental management plan is US$800,000 to be supported by the plants,
and complementary investments with a public good character of US$200,000 to be financed through the
STSP.
Pest Management
The Project is expected to support and facilitate access to agricultural services and inputs, namely
pesticides and fertilizers, as well as the generation and diffusion of improved cotton production
technologies, processing, marketing and exporting.
Consequently, the Project has significant implications for the delivery of agricultural services and input
supply. Since application of chemical pesticides to control damaging pest populations is an important input
in cotton production in Benin, associated human health and environmental problems of pesticide use and
pest management become major issues for promoting sustainable cotton production in Benin. Therefore
this project has an obligation to promote integrated pest management approaches that reduce reliance on
pesticides to ensure that their use does not pose unmanageable risks to farmer. As part of the Project
environmental assessment, a pest management plan (PMP) has been prepared. The main components of
this Plan are presented below.
- 56 -



Major Pests of Cotton in Benin and Pest Control
The major pests of cotton are distributed in the four zones of Benin as follows : In the hot dry northern
zone, Helicoverpa, Sylepta, Dysdercus and Aphids are the most important pests. Mites are generally
absent from this zone. Helicoverpa, Mites, Sylepta and Dydercus are prevalent in the north-central zone
while in the south-central zone, the key pests are Mites, Pectinophora, Helicoverpa and Cryptophlebia.
The most important cotton pests in the humid southern zone, are Sylepta, Helicoverpa and Cryptophlebia.
This pattern of distribution confirms that the cotton bollworm Helicoverpa attacks cotton throughout the
country and is recognized as the major pest. The main features of the cotton pest control activities involve
the following:
Pest Control
Calendar treatment with 3 types of chemical pesticides, is the most widely adopted pest control method
currently in use by cotton farmers throughout the country. Chemical pesticides are sprayed on cotton
plants, on a 14 days calendar schedule, starting 45 days after planting when the 1st application with one
treatment of Callisulfan (endolsulfan) ULV is made. A 2nd single application, again with endosulfan is
applied 14 days later, that is 59 days after planting. The 3rd and 4th applications are made 73 days and 87
days respectively after planting with one spray each of the acaricide, Dursban or DecisT160EC against
mites. The 5th and 6th applications are given 101 and 115 days respectively after planting, with the
aphidicide  Cotalm   D315  EC   (Lambdacyhalothrine   300+dimethoate)  or  Decis  D312EC
(Deltamethrine+Dimethoate). Sometimes, a 7th treatment is applied 122 days after planting with the
aphidicide to eliminate stickiness in the harvested cotton;
Treatment of Seed cotton
Carbosulfan (dibutylamino thio-methly carbamate) is widely used in the ginning factories to treat seed
cotton for storage before planting. Although cotton farmers are convinced that endosulfan is highly
effective in controlling the cotton bollworm and other pests in cotton fields, the use of endosulfan on cotton
is associated with serious human health and environmental problems. After one year of use of endosulfan
during the 1999/2000 season, serious pesticide poisoning problems emerged especially in the Borgou and
Atacora departments in northern Benin where at least 37 deaths and 73 cases of serious illness of pesticide
poisoning were reported. Endosulfan was responsible for 60 percent of these cases and young people were
most affected, with 80 percent of the victims being less than 40 years old.
The results of a recent December 2000 study of pesticide poisoning commissioned by Aventis and Calliope,
two pesticide firms that supply endosulfan to Benin, revealedl31 cases of severe poisoning and 23 deaths
all in the major cotton producing areas (Borgou and Alibori departments) of northern Benin. No cases of
involuntary pesticide poisoning were recorded in the southern cotton producing zones of Zou, Couffo,
Mono, Plateau and Oueme.
Causes of pesticide poisoning
Cases of pesticide misuse that cause poisoning and deaths in Benin are as follows:
*     Voluntary suicide - self inflicted;
*     Use of endosulfan recommended for cotton to spray food crops in cotton and other fields
*     Use of endosulfan for treating grains such as cowpea, maize and millet in storage
*     Use of empty pesticide containers to store drinking water, fruit drinks, cooking oil and other
consumables
- 57 -



Use of empty pesticide containers to store petrol and other petroleum products
*      Pouring pesticides into streams for fishing
*     Washing spraying machines in rivers and thereby polluting the water with residual chemicals
*      Storing pesticides within homes, in sleeping rooms, kitchens, wardrobes and home stores.
Changes required in the framework of this project
The current cotton pest control approach seriously compromises not only the health of rural farmers and
their families but also destroys the environment and the natural recourse base for agricultural production.
Therefore, drastic changes have to be made during the implementation of the Project. Developing an IPM
research and development, farner participatory program on ecologically based integrated pest management,
for the cotton research system in Benin should be an important element of this new approach.
This change would also include: (i) adopting sensible use of reduced quantities of and less frequency of
application of pesticides, and (ii) harnessing fanmer indigenous technical knowledge and skills and
introducing new knowledge for cotton production. Experience in other cotton producing countries, such as
India and Vietnam, is that the frequency of pesticide application, as a component of the integrated
management of cotton pests can be reduced to 2 - 3 sprays. Similar levels of pesticide reduction can be
achieved in Benin by adopting IPM approaches to cotton pest management.
Development of alternative pest management
Initiatives may include:
*     Alternative cropping technologies:   This would include expanding research on IPM-based
technologies at RCF and promotion of organic cotton production.
*     Pesticide management: Over 65 percent of pesticide formulations imported into Benin are destined
for cotton production and 90 percent of all pesticide consumption is used for cotton pest control. All
pesticides imported into Benin are formulated products, no local formulation of pesticides is undertaken.
Currently 37 private pesticide distributors are approved and licensed in Benin by the Plant Protection
Service. Farmer associations at sous-prefectures and village levels play the lead role in the current
arrangement for distribution of cotton pesticides. Benin has accumulated 311 tons of obsolete pesticides
mainly in SONAPRA stores. Most of them are over 10 years old. Benin urgently requires international
assistance to dispose of the stock of obsolete pesticides.
*     Protective gear: Cotton farmers do not usually wear protective gear while spraying; they do not
purchase protective gear because there is no credit scheme for purchase of protective gear. The mission
recommends a credit scheme for farmers to purchase protective gear and linking pesticide procurement with
supply of protective gear.
*     Regulatory framework  There is no national IPM Policy in Benin. National Plant Protection
Legislation is been passed by the Government of Benin and procedures for registration and control of
pesticides distribution and marketing are established. The Committee National d'Agrement et de Contr6le
des Produits Phytopharmaceutiques, CNAC, supervises the registration, quality control of pesticides, as
well as licensing of pesticide distributors. A quality control laboratory has been built but is yet to become
operational. There are no residue analysis facilities in Benin.
- 58 -



Changes envisaged in the framework of this project
The main changes that would be implemented under the proposed project are the following:
*     Formulation and adoption of a National IPM Policy. This would be discussed and prepared during
the planned national IPM Strategy workshop.
*     Design of a farmer-centered crop protection program that is based on IPM principles. The
development of such a program would be one of the major objectives and outputs of the national
IPM strategy workshop.
*      Support for strengthening field monitoring of pesticide use and cases of farmer intoxication.
*     Financial support to purchase the necessary equipment for the quality control laboratory, training
of technicians and establishment of an administrative management structure for the laboratory.
*     Financial support to assist RCF to set up a residue testing laboratory at the Cana station in
Bohicon.
*      Support for building technical capacities, through field training, of SPV and extension staff, and
fanner trainers, to improve delivery of crop protection extension services and thus promote IPM.
*     International assistance to dispose of the stock of obsolete pesticides.
Implementation of the Pest Management Plan
An analysis of the current pest management practices for cotton pests in Benin point to several
inadequacies that would continue to constrain sustainable production of cotton. These inadequacies are
identified as follows:
*     Absence of a Government policy on IPM to provide the framework and environment for promoting
the development and implementation of integrated pest management strategies for cotton;
*     Domination of the current pest management system by over-reliance on chemical pesticides for
control of cotton pests;
-     Too much involvement of some pesticide manufacturing firms in field training and use of
government agencies to promote their products;
Limited exploitation of available modem non-chemical pest management techniques, such as
locally occurring pathogens, NPV biopesticides, and botanicals for the management of cotton
pests;
*     Lack of farmer participatory and farmer-centered, ecologically based IPM field research;
     Weak practical knowledge and understanding by farmers, field crop protection agents and
extension workers of the local agro-ecology of the cotton production system, integrated plant
nutrient management, of pests and their natural enemies and their interactions. And of the role of
natural enemies in the natural regulation of pest populations;
*     Ineffective preparation for and coordination of field training of farmers on the safe handling,
storage and use of chemical pesticides;
     Inappropriate arrangements for the delivery of training to farmers in the proper methods of
- 59 -



spraying cotton fields with chemical pesticides and in the maintenance of application equipment;
*     Inefficient arrangements for the supply and distribution of appropriate protective gear to protect
farmers from the hazards of pesticides while spraying their cotton fields;
*     Lack of appropnate field training and effective dissemination of information on the use of
protective gear and absence of a coordinated system of providing technical advice to the cotton
farming community on the handling and proper maintenance of protective gear;
*      Inadequate field training and information dissemination to the user community of the hazards
associated with improper handling, use and storage of chemical pesticides;
*     Weak pesticide regulatory mechanisms, such as quality control facilities, residue analysis, and poor
facilities to enforce pesticide regulations.
Recommendationsfor an IPM Strategyfor cotton production in Benin
In view of the above, a well defined and coordinated IPM strategy for cotton production is imperative for
Benin. An appropriate IPM strategy for Benin should consist of the following elements:
*     An IPM policy environment;
*     Promoting better understanding of the agro-ecology of the cotton production system in Benin,
specifically at the different agro-ecological zones; cotton pests and their natural enemy complex
and natural regulatory mechanisms; soils and integrated nutrient management; local cotton
cropping systems and environmental management to promote healthy and sustainable plant growth;
*     Introducing new  pest management approaches, ecologically-based, farmer centered IPM;
specifically non-chemical methods such as trap cropping, efficient pest monitoring with pheromone
traps for decision making, and use of biopesticides and botanicals against pests;
*     Establishing pilot activities to develop, validate and introduce promising on-chemical pest
management approaches;
*     Building on farmer's indigenous knowledge and skills in crop protection;
*     Establishing a well coordinated collaborative research on IPM for cotton;
*      Pesticides management; strengthening national capacities of the Plant Protection Service to
regulate the quality of imported pesticides;
*     Establishing mechanisms for an appropriate credit scheme to farmers so that they can conveniently
acquire protective gear; linking pesticides procurement with supply of protective gear;
*      Strengthening pesticide management services to farmer associations, including upgrading the
pesticide storage facilities to approach the minimum standards specified by FAO;
- 60 -



*     Actively encouraging production of Organic cotton in order to increase the prospects of promoting
non-chemical production of cotton in Benin;
Education and training in the adoption of IPM practices and on the hazards of pesticide misuse.
Risk management; Use of rural radio programs to disseminate information on pesticide safety
precautions, publication of information leaflets, in local languages, on the handling, proper use and
storage of pesticides; introduction of topics on proper handling, and misuse of pesticides in adult
literacy programs in villages in collaboration with farmer associations;
*      Collaborating with the Ministry of Health to establish a program for effective management of
farmer intoxication; training staff at rural health centers and hospitals on diagnosis of the
symptoms of pesticides poisoning and appropriate management of cases of pesticide poisoning.
Implementation strategy for the Pest Management Plan
*      The implementation strategy of the PMP is envisaged in two main phases as follows: Phase I
would involve a National IPM Strategy Workshop which would be scheduled soon after project
effectiveness in Cotonou, to elaborate the details of pilot project activities that would form phase II
of the PMP implementation and as a direct follow up of phase I.
-      Phase II: Key areas of concem for implementation of the PMP, and essential and desirable
activities identified that require immediate attention within the framework of the project for phase II are:
Setting up a collaborative 1PM research and development program between IITA or other equally qualified
institutions, RCF and SPV; making the quality control laboratory at SPV fully operational; upgrading the
RCF pesticide laboratory at Cana to undertake pesticide residue analysis; supporting the development of
organic cotton production; establishing a national program for public awareness on misuse of pesticides,
farmer training, sensitization and the proper use of pesticides. Phase two would also include collaboration
with the AFD supported PADSE project, which is currently implementing pilot IPM activities to reduce
and encourage safe use of pesticides. The collaboration would allow for the intensification of these
activities in the current PADSE sites and their extension to cover all cotton growing regions.
Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation of the Implementation of PMP:
In view of its coordinating role in IPM capacity building in West Africa and its linkages to successful IPM
cotton projects in eastern Africa and Asia, the Global IPM Facility should be requested to play a key role,
in collaboration with the National Plant Protection Service, SPV, to supervise and coordinate the
implementation of the proposed pest management plan.
In order to review progress in the implementation of the PMP, and to ensure that project activities achieve
the objective of safeguarding the health and safety of farmers and environmental conservation, a well
coordinated and regular monitoring and evaluation of key indicators is absolutely necessary. The following
activities/issues should be monitored locally (details of these activities would be elaborated during the IPM
Strategy Workshop):
Farmer safety
Build up of farmer knowledge of the cotton agro-ecosystem especially the incidence, abundance and role of
natural enemies and other naturally occurring pest regulatory mechanisms in cotton fields.
- 61 -



- Action by RCF,SPV, and GV
Adoption of agro-ecological knowledge as the basis of decision making for pest management interventions.
- Action by RCF,SPV and GV
More efficient methods for applying pesticides for controlling cotton pests, only when justified by the
prevailing local ecological circumstances.
- Action by SPV and GV
Procurement of cotton pesticides by approved distributors linked with supply of protective gear, and an
efficient credit scheme for farmers to purchase, use and for proper maintenance of protective gear.
- Action by SPV, USPP,CAGIA, and GV.
Criteria and system being adopted by farmers to determine the quantities of pesticides actually needed on
their farms for the season.
- Action by SPV,RCF, CAGIA,USPP and GV
Transportation, delivery pattems and storage of pesticides in GV stores and supervision of the conditions
for storage.
- Action by SPV,CAGIA and GV
Rate of adoption of non-chemical methods of managing cotton pests
- Action by RCF,SPV and GV
Effective follow up after farmer training, to supervise the application of IPM approaches for cotton
production.
- Action by SPV,USPP and GV
Management of cases of farmer intoxication in the rural areas whenever they occur
- Action USPP/GV and Ministry of Health
b. For compliance with OP 4.09 guidelines
Activities to ensure compliance with the guidelines stipulated in OP 4.09 are the responsibility of the
Service Protection des Vegetaux, SPV and the CNAC.
The monitoring of the following activities would be required:
Ensuring that local quality control facilities for imported pesticides are fully operational;
Conducting regular residue analysis of cotton soils for pesticide residues. - Action by RCF and
USPP;
*     A large number of unapproved pesticides are on sale in Benin; field monitoring of pesticides in the
Benin market is absolutely essential;
*     Strict control of the operations of pesticide distributors, including more efficient supervision of
product packaging, labeling, advertisement and marketing of pesticides;
*     Ensuring that pesticide distributors comply strictly with the requirements specified in the national
pesticide legislation;
- 62 -



Separating technical advisory functions from pesticide supply functions; minimizing the use of
using government establishments by chemical manufacturing and marketing firms for promoting
their products.
Recommendations for a Monitoring and Supervision plan
Details of a monitoring and supervision plan would be developed when the specific project activities are
outlined during the national IPM Strategy Workshop. But to provide a framework for this plan, we
recommend the following issues to constitute the monitoring and supervision plan for the project:
     Identify measurable entities as indicators of performance for each project activity;
*     Prepare monitoring and evaluation instruments specific for each activity being monitored; include
very clear definitions of terms to be used;
*     Design the modalities for and the process of supervision, including details about sample universe
and frequency of monitoring activities;
*     Prepare supervisory schedules based on the rate of progress of project implementation;
*     Define the methods of analysis to be adopted for the monitoring data and establish reporting
schedules;
Establish simple but efficient follow up mechanisms of how to take remedial actions if necessary.
- 63 -



Additional
Annex 12
Financial Management Action Plan
(as of date of negotiations)
No    ACTIONS    RESPONSIBILITY    COMPLETION   EXPECTED   INDICATOR/
STATUS/DATE  OUTCOME    REMARK
I     Recruut Director of             AIC                       Done            Qualified personnel    IDA has issued
Administration and                                                        recruited through a  non-objection
Finance (DAF)                                                             transparent and
________________ _______________________          ___________________     competitive  process
2    Prepare draft Manual of        AIC/DAF                  09/10/2001       Working document for  Draft Manual is
procedures                                                               technical diacussions    submitted prior to
.______________________ available at negotiations negotiations
3    Recruit Accountant:              AIC                    09/31/2001        qualified accountant    Accountant has joined
recruited through a  AIC team IDA non
- Elaborate and review           AIC                       Done          transparent and       objection is obtained
the TORs                                                                  competitive process
- Advertise position             AIC                       Done
- Select a firn to process
recruitment                      AIC                       Done
- Select a qualified
candidate                        AIC                    09121/2001
- Elaborate employment           AIC                    09/10/2001
conditions
- Obtain non-objection         AIC/IDA                  09/17/2001      _           _          _
4    Recruit the Procurement           AIC                    09/15/2001       Qualified personnel   Procurement Officer
Officer:                                                                 recruited through a   has joined AIC team
AIC                      Done           transparent and      IDA non objection is
- Elaborate and review           AIC                       Done          competitive process   obtained
the TORs                         AIC                       Done
- Advertize position             AIC                    09/15/2001
- Select a firm to process       AIC                    09103/2001
recruitment                    AICAIDA                  09/07/2001
- Select a qualified
candidate
- Elaborate employment
conditions
- Obtain non-objection
5     Selection consultant             AIC                    09/15/2001        AIC has adequate     Final consultant report
finn to set up financial                                                 financial management  is submitted and found
management system and                                                    system in place to    acceptable Selection
software:                                                                 monitor and issue report package, short list,
AIC                      Done            on project expenditures. contract to IDA;
- Elaborate and review           AIC                       Done                                -System is operational
the TORs                                                                                       - Contract to IDA
- Select firm based on        Consultant                11/29/2001
CQ method                   AlC/Consultant              06/30/2002
- Set up system and
train staff
- Sign maintenance
contract
-64 -



6    Finalize Manual of              AIC/DAF                    11/15/2001      Project financial     Manual is available
Financial Management                                                       management and
procedures                                                                 reporting procedures are
in place
7     Train project staffon     IDA/Training Center/           11/29/2001        Project staff is      Training completed in
Bank Disbursement,            Consultants                                  familiarized with Bank  Bank Country Office
procurement, and                                                           procedures
financial management
8     Assess capacities of the       IDA/AIC                   12/31/2001        Deternination of      Adequate FMS in
financial management                                                       adequacy of FMS       place
system
9    Select independent                 AIC                    31/12/2001       Independent auditor is    - Process is ongoing
auditor:                                                                  recruited trough       - Evaluation results to
AIC/IDA                     Done          competitive and        IDA
- Prepare and review              AIC                       Done           tasparent process     - Copy of contract to
TORs                              AIC                    09/27/2001                              IDA
- Request proposals               AIC                     11/08/2001                             - IDA non objection is
Evaluate proposals             AIC/IDA                  09/30/2001                              obtained
- Select firm
- Obtain non-objection
10    Assess capacities to use       IDA /AIC                   12/31/2002       Determination of      DAF able to prepare
PMR                                                                        capability of system to  report acceptable to
issue PMR             IDA
II    Move to PMR-based               AIC/IDA             At the latest 18 month  Capacity to prepare   Acceptable PMR
disbursement                                         after effectiveness   adequate PMR is       reports are being
available            issued
- 65 -






MAP SECTION






*&_._ N   X,> ALGERIA   * '"                                                            Thismop - pro-d bydfh.
.>'.   MAURIAIA !  hlAU   -r                                                                    M,p D.  Nitofhe Wodd k.
, o ! j NIGER  j    j    r   ondsmyoXmhermobdonon
-~N I G E R            h.   -  ly     Pd
W                                                                               '...._C:SUDAN \*  .
BA              -  R   I       k         . \_                                              -y-dl \
_.,----IGE TI A  -I                                                          n\dT.  or o  ne
:'~~~~~~~~~~~-_C.A C- , \    ad
-17'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
OCE~~~~~~~~~2~~~~  '  7                  B~~~~~~~rANIKOAPA  nMala
B U' R               lKI                                         R I  N             L  REFRM
F A S  0                 Bani                                             KA~~~~~DELAFIIEE  OTND
x.9 ,  A C                                               0  SE       S
- p                            I Bamsilo         (    <o  ltlfng
T-S--1A BOuGOmIii
m-a,                  .                             |_BEI
, ;   (   !                0                COTTON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ SECTONDR REOADS ROEC
Z00           ffi            PA     ROJENAN  D'PPI AV RAD S   ERME
i\   3   <   ~~~~~~t   <    OOuesst        DE L~~~~~~~~AFILIRE OADS
w0-                                                                                                    lo- SUE-PRrfECTUREBONARIES
gou~~~~~~v
-80 \k\ *> R~~~~~0meN8
PAK   i        >        \  }       W   >\   KST                DEPARIMENT BOUNDARIES
T  _ 0   20 0                            70
R* G    1                                              -                   BIGHT.Of BENIN
48    1 *-1  <       ~          . t. '' . . -ATL4NTifQU   -3'                -Sv        



