Report No. PID9789
Project Name                     Benin-Cotton Sector Reform Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Rural Development II
Project ID                       BJPE72503
Borrower                         Government of Benin
Implementing agency              Ministry of Rural Development
Date of this PID                 December 1, 2000
Board Date                       May 15, 2001
Project appraisal date           March, 2001
Country and Sector Background
The cotton sector remains the main engine of Benin's rural as well as formal
economy, providing the bulk of primary production and domestic exports. The
sector experienced very rapid growth over the past 30 years, both absolutely
as well as compared to other cotton growing countries. Yields have grown by
50 percent and output has gone up six-fold. Despite this relative growth,
there remain significant pockets of poverty, particularly in the cotton
growing areas. The geographical distribution of absolute poverty indicates
that cotton areas are the most affected as they account for up to 40 W of the
total poverty incidence. The rest of the agricultural sector has not done
well, either. The average annual growth in the non-cotton sectors is
estimated at 2.7 W compared to 5 W in Ghana and 4 W in Burkina Faso during
this decade.
While government has heavily focused its development efforts on the cotton
sector at the expense of other sectors, it appears that growth in the former
has not yet made significant impact on people's livelihood. The extent of
poverty in the faster growing cotton sector is also testimony to the fact
that mere expansion in agricultural output is not a sufficient condition for
poverty reduction, which requires higher productivity and employment of
resources that poor people depend on for their livelihood. Accordingly, the
main purpose of Benin Cotton Sector Reform Program is to help the government
achieve its strategic goal of fostering broad-based growth in Benin's rural
sector and thereby increasing per capita rural incomes and reducing poverty.
To achieve that objective, the program seeks to provide an answer to the main
question facing Benins cotton sector, as far as the goal of proverty
reduction is concerned, which is: (i) how to further expand cotton
cultivation, while (ii) spreading the productivity gains and income increases
to a larger part of cotton producers, and (iii) generating income multiplier
effects within and outside the cotton sector and the rest of the rural
economy.
The program would be implemented over a period of four (4) years. During the
first year, it would focus on (a) the legal and institutional framework for a
succeful transition towards a liberalized and competitive cotton sector. For
the remaining three years, the emphasis would be on (ii) the provision of



technical to the two institutions that are to carry the transition process,
primarily the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC) and the
Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (CSPR), and (c)
building the institutional and technical capacities of Producer Organizations
(PO).
Project Objectives
The program development objective is to effect a successful transition from
the current monopolistic and centrally administered system to a more
competitive cotton sector and, hence, greater efficiency and productivity in
the sector. The project would strengthen the competitiveness of Benin's
competitiveness in international export markets, allowing the country to
raise its market share and benefit from the expected expansion of world
cotton demand. Ultimately, the increase in productivity and competitiveness
should lead to higher incomes in the sector. It is also expected that the
increase in transparency and efficiency would lead to a better distribution
of incomes throughout the sector, with positive spill-over effects in other
productive sectors both within and outside of the rural sector.
Project Description
In order to meet its development objectives, the proposed project would
implement the following six (6) sets of activities:
(i) Establishment of the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et du
Recouvrement (CSPR) This would include technical support for the preparation
of the establishment of the CSPR and financial support for its operation
during the first three years. It is envisaged to recruit a recognized
investment Bank or a similar company to back up and/or manage the Centrale
during this initial period to ensure a good start off.
(ii) Operationalization of the AIC. The AIC was created in 1999 in
anticipation of the liberalization of the cotton sector and is to serve as
(i) a framework for consultation among private sector operators on policy and
institutional issues and (ii) a representative for the private sector to
interact with government on all aspects policy design and implementation. It
has just become operational. Under this component, technical assistance would
be provided to ensure that it operates succesfully. A Technical Secretariat
(TS) would be set up to help the AIC to play its role. Financial support for
the operation of the Secretariat during the first three years would be
provided. Thereafter, the profession would take over the financing of its
operations.
(iii) Support to the Producers' Organizations. This component would
strengthen the institutional and technical capacities of producer
organizations. Training and financial support to reinforce the leadership and
representational capacities of national producer organizations would be
provided. The latter would be strengthened to become technically and
economically credible partners vis-a-vis other operators in the sectors, in
particular the cotton ginners, input importers, and commercial banks. For
that purpose, technical and financial support would be provided to set up
farmer owned Commercial and Technical Support Units (CTSU). The CTSUs would
(i) fill the gap in terms of technical and commercial support to producers
that would result from SONAPRA's withdrawal and (ii) represent interests of
-2 -



their shareholders (the farmers) with respect to ginners, banks, input
traders, and technical services delivery rganizations, public as well as
private.
(iv)Establishment of a Rural Development Fund (RDF) Under this component, a
matching grant fund would be constituted to help finance cotton technologies
and agricultural services. This fund, which would be managed by the private
sector, including producers, ginners, and input distributors, would
facilitate access to agricultural services and the generation and diffussion
of improved technologies of production, processing, marketing, and exporting.
(v) Support for the conversion of sector employees. Most likely, some
employment would be suppressed with the reforms of the filiere. Consequently,
the employees who would loose their jobs would receive support under the
current component to integrate alternative productive activities.
(vi) Support to the privatization of SONAPRA: Under this component, support
would be provided to the government of Benin to carry out a transparent
privatization strategy that is consistent with the long term objectives of a
competitive cotton sector.
Project Implementation
A detailed draft implementation manual will be finalize during appraisal.
Implementation Period: Phase I: 3 years: 2000-2003
Executing Agency: Ministry of Rural Development
Project Management: TBD
Project Implementation: TBD
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
- 3 -



