Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3598 BEN
Project Agreement
(Cotton Sector Reform  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSOCIATION INTERPROFESSIONNELLE DU COTON
Dated  February 15,  2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3598 BEN
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 20002, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ASSOCIATION 
INTERPROFESSIONNELLE DU COTON (AIC).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Benin (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,100,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that AIC agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AIC, the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to AIC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS AIC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AIC declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and AIC shall otherwise agree, AIC shall carry out the Project in 
Page  3
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AIC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
AIC shall:
(i)
prepare, jointly with the Borrower, the plan referred to in Section 3.03 
of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
AIC and the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. AIC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIC shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AIC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Credit.
(b) 
AIC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by AIC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 2.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, AIC shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the 
financing of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account in CFA 
Francs (the AIC Project Account) in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the AIC Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF 
300,000,000;
Page  4
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to the initial amount of CFAF 300,000,000 
at the end of each Project Quarter until the completion of the Project, or whenever its balance 
shall be less than CFAF 150,000,000; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the AIC Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for 
Parts A, B, C and D of 
the Project in addition to those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.07.   AIC shall ensure that amounts deposited into the Borrower’s Project 
Account referred to in section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for Part E of the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.08.  AIC shall, by December 31, 2002, take all measures necessary to assist in 
the setting up of an independent rural development fund, which shall mobilize the necessary 
resources to sustain the activities under Part D of the Project after the completion of the Project, 
to be operated under the Borrower’s laws and regulations, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 2.09.  AIC shall, by April 30, 2002, employ the auditors referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) By October 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
commencing October 1, 2002, AIC shall submit to the Borrower, the Association and the 
Steering Committee for their  review and comments its draft of: (i) the program of activities to be 
carried out under the Project during the following year; and (ii) the related budget.
(b)
AIC shall, in preparing the final version of such program and budget, take into 
due account the comments made by the Borrower, the Association and the Steering Committee.
(c)
By December 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
commencing December 15, 2002, AIC shall adopt its program of activities to be carried  out 
under the Project during the following year, and the annual related budget, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Borrower, the Association and the Steering Committee.
Section 2.11. AIC shall prepare and submit to the Steering Committee, the Borrower and 
the Association, the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan not later than three months from the 
Effective Date.
Section 2.12.  AIC shall,  by May 31, 2002, prepare and furnish the IPMP to the Steering 
Committee, the Borrower and the Association.
Page  5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AIC
Section 3.01. AIC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. AIC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, technical and 
environmental practices.
Section 3.03. AIC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AIC shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project.
(b)
AIC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
Page  6
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
AIC  shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening 
of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01  in order to 
enable AIC, not later than 18 months from the Effective Date, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, AIC shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of AIC  
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
Page  7
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify AIC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AIC:
Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton
061 BP 18
Akpakpa, Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Facsimile:
(229) 33 97 15
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AIC may be taken or executed by 
the President of the Executive Committee or such other person or persons as the President of the 
Executive Committee shall designate in writing, and AIC shall furnish to the Association 
Page  8
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION INTERPROFESSIONNELLE DU COTON
By  /s/ Cyrille Oguin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods  shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Page  9
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods estimated to cost less than $7,500 equivalent per contract, required for Part C of 
the Project, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and 
described in the Project Implementation Manual.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) the first five contracts for goods; and (ii) each subsequent contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
Page  10
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the training of local farmer organization under Part C of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out audits and activities to be carried out under Part D of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Page  11
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
All terms of reference (other than those provided in the Project Implementation 
Manual) shall be furnished to the Association for its prior  approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
Implementation Program
1.
AIC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Borrower, Association and the Steering Committee, not later than January 31, April 30, July 
31 and October 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)       review with the Association, not later than four weeks after the submission of the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
2.
Within one month of the Effective Date, AIC shall take all measures necessary on its part 
to organize, in conjunction with the Borrower, the Association and the Steering Committee, a 
workshop for the launching of the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, 
disbursement and procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the 
Project.
3.          By March 31, 2002, AIC shall take all measures necessary on its part to organize, in 
conjunction with the Borrower, the Association and the Steering Committee, a workshop which 
shall cover the strategy for the preparation of the IPMP.   
4.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AIC shall: (i) apply the criteria, policies, 
procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual, the Financial 
Management Procedures Manual and the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan; and (ii) not amend or 
waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the EA, the IPMP, the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Financial Management Procedures Manual and the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan 
or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
5.
AIC shall take the action referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Page  13
6.
AIC Technical Secretariat
(a)  
AIC shall maintain through out the implementation of the Project, a Technical 
Secretariat, and designate its Permanent Secretary as the Project Coordinator, assisted by the 
following key staff, all employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement: (i) Procurement Specialist; (ii) Director, Administration and Finance; (iii) 
Accountant; (iv) Director, Information, Monitoring and Evaluation; (v) Specialist in charge of 
the Sector-wide Technical Services Programs; and (vi) Director, Contracts and Agreements.
(b)
The AIC Technical Secretariat shall be responsible for:  (i) the management of 
the Project on a day to day basis under the supervision of the Steering Committee; and (ii) the 
maintenance of a financial management and accounting system, acceptable to the Association, to 
be maintained through out the Project implementation period.
7.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about twenty four months after the Effective Date, AIC shall carry out 
jointly with the Association, the Borrower and the Steering Committee a midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and
(ii)
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.
(b)
AIC shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the 
Borrower, the Association and the Steering Committee a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally.
(c)
AIC shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, for the further implementation of the 
Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such 
action program.
