Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3598 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Cotton Sector Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 15, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3598 BEN
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton
(AIC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to AIC, 
as set forth in this Agreement;
(C) 
the Association has received from the Borrower a development policy document 
dated July 2001, describing the policy framework of the Borrower for its rural sector (hereinafter 
called the Policy Framework), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to comply with the 
Policy Framework; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AIC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
Page  3
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIC” means the Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton
, a non-profit 
association
 established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations pursuant to its 
statutes dated October 26, 1999 (the AIC Statutes), and referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
“AIC Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.06 of the 
Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Borrower’s Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
(d)
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)
“COD” means the Cellule des Opérations de Dénationalisation
, the privatization 
unit at MECCAG-PD (as hereinafter defined), established under the Borrower’s Decree No. 
99-513 dated November 2, 1999 (the COD Decree);
(f)
“CSPR” means the Centrale de Sécurisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement
, 
a groupement d
’intérêt économique
 established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and 
regulations pursuant to its statutes dated October 25, 2000 (the CSPR Statutes), and referred to in 
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(g)
“EA” means the environmental assessment for the Project, composed of the 
environmental audit of the ginning sector dated February-March 2001 and the pest management 
plan for cotton production dated February 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the EA;
(h)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3), set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(j)
“EMP” means the environmental mitigation plan of the ginning sector for the 
Project described in the EA (environmental audit of the ginning sector dated February-March 
Page  4
(j)
“EMP” means the environmental mitigation plan of the ginning sector for the 
Project described in the EA (environmental audit of the ginning sector dated February-March 
2001; Section 8), and referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement;
(k)
“FUPRO” means the Fédération des Unions de Producteurs
, a non-profit 
association
 established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations pursuant to its 
statutes dated May 7, 1995 (the FUPRO Statutes), and referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Financial Management Procedures Manual” means the manual outlining the 
administrative, financial, accounting and reporting procedures for the implementation of the 
Project referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to 
Section 7.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Financial Management Procedures Manual;
(m)
“IPMP” means the Integrated Pest Management Plan for the cotton production 
supported by the Project, setting forth a strategy and an action plan for adoption of adequate pest 
management practices by cotton producers, and referred to in Section 5.04 of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the IPMP;
(n)
“MAEP” means Ministère de l
’Agriculture, de l
’Elevage et de la Pêche
, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fishing;
(o)
“MECCAG-PD” means “Ministère d
’Etat Chargé de la Coordination de l
’Action 
Gouvernementale
, de la Prospective et du Développement
”, the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning;
(p)
“Monitoring and Evaluation Plan” means the plan outlining the monitoring and 
evaluation arrangements for the Project, referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and to be adopted pursuant to Section 5.05 of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Monitoring and 
Evaluation Plan;
(q)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and AIC of 
even date, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(r)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual setting out, inter alia, the 
procurement and disbursement procedures, the institutional aspects, the work plans and other 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 7.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(t)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on April 5, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 10, 2001; 
(u)
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending three months thereafter (the First Project Quarter) and any three-month period 
Page  5
(u)
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending three months thereafter (the First Project Quarter) and any three-month period 
beginning at the end of the First Project Quarter, or at the end of any subsequent Project Quarter; 
(v)
“SONAPRA” means Société Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole
, a 
state-owned company established and operating under the Borrower’s laws and regulations 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 91-161 dated July 22, 1991, and referred to in Part E of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
(w)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(x)
“Steering Committee” means the multisector committee responsible for the 
general oversight of the carrying out of the Project, including the review and approval of annual 
work programs and budget, and referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
established pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement; and
(y)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and AIC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
14,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
Page  6
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1 commencing June 1, 2012 and ending December 1, 2041.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on December 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
Page  7
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause AIC to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of AIC 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AIC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall assist AIC 
in the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to AIC as a grant 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and AIC, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include, but 
without being limited to, the provisions set forth in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  8
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare jointly with AIC, and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower and AIC on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AIC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05.
Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution 
to the financing of Part E of the Project:
(a) 
cause AIC to open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of Part E of the 
Project, an account in CFA Francs (the Borrower’s Project Account) in the Treasury on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Borrower’s Project Account an initial contribution of CFAF 
50,000,000;
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to the initial amount of CFAF 50,000,000 at 
the end of each Project Quarter until the completion of Part E of the Project, or whenever its 
balance shall be less than CFAF 25,000,000; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Borrower’s Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services for Part E of the Project in addition to those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  9
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 2002, prepare a plan of action 
acceptable to the Association to mitigate the loss of employment in the Borrower’s cotton sector 
that may result from the activities carried out under the Project.
Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2002, take all measures necessary to 
Page  10
Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 2002, take all measures necessary to 
assist in the setting up of an independent rural development fund, which shall mobilize the 
necessary resources to sustain the activities under Part D of the Project after the completion of 
the Project, to be operated under the Borrower’s laws and regulations, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the ginning companies located in the 
Borrower’s territory fully implement the EMP by June 30, 2003, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 5.04.  The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 2002, adopt the IPMP prepared by 
AIC under Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; and (b) ensure that the IPMP be complied with in a timely manner by the cotton 
producers located in the Borrower’s territory, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.05.  The Borrower shall adopt the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan prepared by 
AIC under Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, not later than four months from the Effective Date.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01.  Pursuant to section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Policy 
Framework or a significant part thereof will be complied with.
(b)
AIC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that AIC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The AIC Statutes governing the operations of AIC shall have been amended, 
suspended or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of AIC to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The CSPR Statutes governing the operations of CSPR, the COD Decree 
governing the operations of COD or the FUPRO Statutes governing the operations of FUPRO 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Page  11
(f)
Any law, any other legal instrument enacted or any legal document entered into 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations of the rural 
development fund.
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e) and (f) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AIC; 
(b)
the Borrower’s Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution 
referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(c)
the Borrower has: (a) taken all measures to establish the Steering Committee in a 
manner, and with members and staff in adequate numbers and whose qualifications and 
experience are satisfactory to the Association; and (b) appointed the representative of the MAEP 
as chairman of the Steering Committee;
(d) 
the AIC Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred to 
in Section 2.06 (b) of the Project Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(e)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual and the Financial 
Management Procedures Manual, both in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
(f)
AIC has established an accounting and financial management system for the 
Page  12
(f)
AIC has established an accounting and financial management system for the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 7.02
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AIC, and is 
legally binding upon AIC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and AIC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and AIC in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01.
The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANCES
5009 or
(229) 30 18 51
COTONOU
5289MINFIN
(229) 31 53 56
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  13
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By
/s/ Cyrille Oguin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
Page  14
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, vehicles,
furniture and materials
(a)  under Parts A, B, C
1,790,000
100% of foreign
       and E of the Project
expenditures and
85% of local 
expenditures
(b)  under Part D of the
780,000
80 % of costs incurred 
       Project
from the Effective Date
to December 31, 2003; 
and 60% of costs incurred 
thereafter
(2)
Consultants’ services,
training and audits
(a)
under Parts A, B, C
      5,000,000
70%
and E of the Project
(b)
under Part D of the
      2,400,000
80% of costs incurred
Project
from the Effective Date
to December 31, 2003;
and 60% of costs incurred
thereafter
(3)
Operating Costs
1,870,000
80% of costs incurred from 
the Effective Date to 
December 31, 2003; and 
60% of costs 
incurred thereafter
(4)
Refunding of
450,000
Amount due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to Section 
Advance
Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
1,810,000
TOTAL
14,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
Page  15
(a)   
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)    the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)  
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred by 
AIC on account of Project implementation, management and supervision, and by COD, CSPR 
and FUPRO on account of Project implementation, including office supplies, office rental, 
communication costs, office equipment and vehicle maintenance and operating costs, travel and 
other allowances, local contractual staff salaries; but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants.
3.   
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent each; or (iv) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.         Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
Page  16
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
CFA Francs 500,000,000  to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of 
CFA Francs 250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR  
3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Page  18
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit  shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed CFA Francs 750,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the productivity and 
Page  19
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in increasing the productivity and 
efficiency of its cotton sector, by moving from a monopolistic, centrally administered production 
system to a system based on competition.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
:
Support to AIC and Project Management
1.
Strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of AIC, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
2.
Carrying out financial audits of the Project, AIC, CSPR and FUPRO.
Part B
:
Support to CSPR
Strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of CSPR to establish effective 
marketing and credit recovery mechanisms for the production of cotton, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
Part C
:
Support to FUPRO and its Member Organizations
Strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of cotton producer organizations 
at the local and national level, through the provision to FUPRO and its member organizations of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
Part D:
Support for the Implementation of Sector-wide Technical Services Programs
Preparation and implementation of annual sector-wide technical services programs 
including, inter alia, programs relating to: (i) environmentally sound cotton ginning and pest 
management practices, including the IPMP; (ii) cotton grading and quality control; (iii) cotton 
research and production of improved seeds; (iv) training and extension services for cotton 
farmers; and (v) cotton price and income stabilization, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, and the acquisition of equipment.
Part E
:
Support for the Privatization of the Ginning Activities of SONAPRA
Strengthening the institutional and technical capacities of COD to prepare and 
implement a strategy for the privatization of the ginning activities of SONAPRA, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
Page  20
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
A.
Main Provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement
The Subsidiary Agreement shall include, but without being limited to, provisions to the 
following effect:
(a)
the proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to AIC by the Borrower as a 
grant;
(b)
AIC shall perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
goods and services required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the Association’s procedures as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(d)
the various arrangements to be established between AIC and the Borrower’s 
relevant agencies involved in the transfer and use of the proceeds of the Credit, and the 
implementation of the Project.
B.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee during the implementation of the 
Project in a manner and with members and staff in adequate numbers, and whose qualifications, 
experience and performance are satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(i) the experience and performance of the three (3) Borrower’s representatives on the Steering 
Committee, to be appointed in conformity with the provisions of the document establishing the 
Steering Committee, shall be satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the concerned Borrower’s 
Ministries and agencies shall collaborate with AIC and shall assist AIC in ensuring consistent 
application of the Borrower’s sectoral policies and proper implementation of the Project, in 
compliance with the provisions of the EA, the IPMP, the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Financial Management Procedures Manual and the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan.
2.
The Borrower shall participate and cause the Steering Committee to participate in the 
workshops referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall participate and cause the Steering Committee to participate in the 
Midterm Review referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.     
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply the criteria, 
Page  21
4.     
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply the criteria, 
policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Financial Management Procedures Manual and the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan; and (ii) not 
amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the EA, the IPMP, the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Financial Management Procedures Manual and the Monitoring and 
Evaluation Plan or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
