                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY


                                                                            ReportNo: ICR0000962




                   IMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETIONAND RESULTS REPORT
                                        (IDA-35980 IDA-3598A)



                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.1MILLION
                                  (uS$l8.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                                 FOR A

                                COTTON SECTORREFORM PROJECT



                                           December 30,2008




Agriculture and Rural DevelopmentUnit
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective October2008)

                             CurrencyUnit =CFA Franc
                              US$1 =FCFA Franc 470
                                SDR 1.00= US$1.54

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1-December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AIC     Interprofessional Cotton Association
        (AssociationInterprofessionnelle du Coton)
BEA     Benin EnvironmentalAgency (AgenceBbninoisepour IIEnvironnement)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CAGIA   CoopdrativedlApprovisionnementet de Gestiondes Intrants Agricoles
        (Co-operative for the Management and Supplyof Agricultural Inputs)
CARDER  Centre d'ActionRdgionalepour le Dheloppernent Rural
        (Regional Rural DevelopmentAgencies)
CCCE    Caisse Centrale de CoopbrationEconomique (French DevelopmentFund)
CCPC    ConseilCommunalde Producteurs de Coton
        (Communal Council of Cotton Producers)
CDPC    ConseilDkpartemental de Producteurs de Coton
        (DepartmentalCouncil of Cotton Producers
CNPC    ConseilNational des Producteurs de Coton (National Councilof Cotton Producers)
CFA     CFA Francs
CSPR    Input Credit Recovery and Payment Agency
        (Centralede Sdcurisationdes Paiements et du Recouvrement)
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     EnvironmentalMitigation Plan
FUPRO   Federation of Producer Unions (Fdddrationdes Unionsde Producteurs)
GOB     Government of Benin
GVPC    Groupement villageois de Producteursde coton
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR     ImplementationCompletion and ResultsReport
ISR     Implementation Statusand Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO     Nongovernment Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PMP     Pest ManagementPlan
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SIM     SectorInvestment and Maintenance Loan
SONAPRA National Company for Agricultural production (SociktdNationalepour la
        PromotionAgricole)
STSP    Sector-wide Technical Services Programs
UDP     Department-level Producer Unions

     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
   Country Director: Madani M. Tall
    Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader: Nicolas Ahouissoussi
  ICR Team Leader: Anke Reichhuber

                                                     CONTENTS


Data Sheet

 A. Basic Information...................................................................................................
                                                                                                                       v
 B .Key Dates...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                       v
 C.Ratings Summary...................................................................................................  v
 D. Sectorand Theme Codes.......................................................................................      vi
 E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                      vi
 F.Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................        vi
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................................................. vlii          ...
 H. Restructuring(if any) ........................................................................................... ix
 I. Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................ix
 1.Project Context, DevelopmentObjectives and Design............................................1
 2.Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................                      5
 3 Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................
   .                                                                                                                   8
 4.Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 11
 5.Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................... 11
 6.Lessons Learned .............................................................................................. 13
 7.Commentson Issues Raised by Borrower/ImplementingAgenciesIPartners.......... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................          15
 Annex 2.Outputsby Component................................. ........................................16
                                                                          ..
 Annex 3.Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................               23
 Annex 4.Bank Lendingand Implementation SupportISupervisionProcesses............24
 Annex 5.Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................         26
 Annex 6.StakeholderWorkshop Report and Results ...............................................27
 Annex 7.Summary of Borrower's ICR andlor Comments on Draft ICR....................28
 Annex 8.Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders......................38
 Annex 9 .Listof SupportingDocuments ..................................................................              39

 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Cotton Sector Reform
Country:                Benin                  Project Name:
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P072503                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35980,IDA-3598A
ICR Date:               12/30/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                    Borrower:
                                                                      BENIN
Original Total
                        XDR 14.1M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 13.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Interprofessional Association (AIC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Interprofessional Cotton Association


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/21/2000     Effectiveness:       05/17/2002         09/12/2002
Appraisal:             06/19/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/22/2002     Mid-term Review:     10/15/2005         10/17/2005
                                      Closing:             06/30/2006         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                               20                25
Agricultural marketing and trade                                  43                50
Agro-industry                                                     10                10
Central government administration                                  2                 2
Crops                                                             25                13


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regulation and competition policy                                Primary          Primary
Rural markets                                                    Primary          Primary
Rural policies and institutions                                  Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Secondary        Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                     Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks             Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:       Nicolas Ahouissoussi               Ousmane Badiane
ICR Team Leader:           Anke Reichhuber
ICR Primary Author:        Nicolas Gergely
                           Anke Reichhuber




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To assist the Borrower in increasing the productivity and efficiency of its cotton sector,
by moving from a monopolistic, centrally administered production system to a system
based on competition.
  (from Credit Agreement, see section 1.2)

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   The AIC has set up adequate mechanisms to successfully provide technical
                support services to farmers and ginners.
                                                                            The AIC has set up
                The AIC was just created                                    an adequate system

Value           before the project's start,                                 of financing and

quantitative or and only few staff were in                                  provision of a

Qualitative)    place to animate its                                        coherent level of
                Permanent Secretariat                                       technical support
                (SP/AIC).                                                   services to farmers
                                                                            and ginners.
Date achieved 09/15/2002                                                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The outcome is achieved.
achievement)
                Producers and ginners have acquired the capacities to make pricing and
Indicator 2 :   marketing decisions through independent contracts by the end of the 4th year of
                the project.
                                                                            Decisions on

                There was no marketing                                      pricing and

                and pricing decision                                        marketing are taken

Value           making system by the                                        at the inter-

quantitative or actors since the           not available                    professional level

Qualitative)    management of the value                                     and approved by

                chain was purely                                            the Government.

                administrative.                                             The AIC plays an
                                                                            active role in
                                                                            negotiating prices.
Date achieved 09/15/2002                   06/30/2006                       06/30/2008
Comments        Although ginners and producers do not take the decisions on marketing and
(incl. %        pricing independently from government they have acquired the ability to
achievement)    negotiate at central level.



                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  The share of cotton production that is marketed each year through the new
               system meets or exceeds the baseline levels (achieved by SONAPRA)
Value
(quantitative  Close to 100%                                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/15/2002                                                     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The target is achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  The delay of payments to producers has been reduced to a maximum of 30 days
               by the second year of the project compared to the baseline

Value                                     less or equal to 30

(quantitative  less than 30 days          days by the second                 more than 30 days
or Qualitative)                           year of the
                                          program
Date achieved 09/15/2002                  09/15/2003                         06/30/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Target value has been reached neither at target year nor at completion date.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  The CSPR mechanism ensures that demand for modern inputs is fully satisfied
               by the private sector, every year, both in terms of quantity and quality
                                                                             The private sector

Value                                                                        satisfies close to

(quantitative                                                                100% of input

or Qualitative)                                                              demand in terms of
                                                                             quality and
                                                                             quantity.
Date achieved                                                                06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Only data for the last year of the project is available.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  The recovery rate of input credit through CSPR system is at least 99 % in the
               first year of the project
Value
(quantitative                              99%                               98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             06/30/2003                         06/30/2003
Comments       The target value was almost achieved at target year. The actual value deteriorated
(incl. %       towards completion of the project (95%). The target is therefore not fully
achievement)   reached, but the level of recovery remains consistently high.
Indicator 5 :  At least 80% of member farmers are satisfied with the quality of the leadership of



                                                iv

               FUPRO and its other member organizations by the end of the 2nd year.
Value
(quantitative                              At least 80% of                    below 45%
or Qualitative)                           farmers

Date achieved                             06/30/2004                          06/30/2004
Comments       The target value is not achieved at target year. The actual value improved
(incl. %       towards the end of the project but remained below 80%. The target is therefore
achievement)   not reached.

Indicator 6 :  At least 80% of producers, ginners, and input distributors are satisfied with the
               quality of technical services by the end of the 2nd year.

Value                                                                         Producers: 83%

(quantitative                              at least 80%                       Ginners: 47%

or Qualitative)                                                               Input distributors:
                                                                              n.a.
Date achieved                             06/30/2004                          06/30/2004
Comments       The target values are not achieved at target year. The actual values improved
(incl. %       towards the end of the project but remained below 80%. The target is therefore
achievement)   not reached.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     03/22/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     10/25/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     05/30/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.92
  4     11/05/2003           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      1.12
  5     04/28/2004           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      3.59
  6     10/28/2004           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      4.28
  7     04/16/2005           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      7.23
  8     12/20/2005           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                  9.11
  9     06/28/2006           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 11.97
  10    11/22/2006           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 14.97

  11    06/19/2007          Unsatisfactory              Moderately
                                                      Unsatisfactory                      17.02

  12    12/13/2007          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     17.96
  13    05/23/2008          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     19.16



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At time of appraisal of this project, the cotton sector's contribution to Benin's GDP was estimated
to be between 10 and 15 percent; it accounted for 70 to 80 percent of the agricultural export value,
and for 35 percent of fiscal income. Cotton directly benefited more than 350,000 farmers, and
contributed to the monetary income of around 3 million people. Between the 1980s and the mid
1990s the area under cotton cultivation grew at a sustained rate, whereas it was stagnating in most
other West and Central African cotton producing countries at the time.

                           Figure 1: Cotton area, production and yield in the pre-reform period in Benin



                            400                                                                 1,600
                            350                                                                 1,400
                            300                                                                 1,200
                tons        250                                                                 1,000           area
                    or      200                                                                 0,800           production
                      ha    150                                                                 0,600 ton/ha    yield
                        000 100                                                                 0,400
                            50                                                                  0,200
                             0                                                                  0,000

                            1980/8119811982198
                                             3198 19851986198719881989199 19911992199319941995
                                                4                       0




    Source: Comparative Analysis of Organization and Performance of African Cotton Sectors, World Bank 2008

Until around 1986/87, the organization of the cotton sector was such that cotton ginning was the
responsibility of the regional rural development agencies (CARDERs) and marketing and input
purchase the responsibility of SONAPRA. As part of the Bank and French cooperation (CCCE)
financed Second Borgou project, seed cotton ginning was transferred to SONAPRA in addition to
the lint marketing and input supply and distribution. This remained until the mid 1990s, when the
sector was organized solely around the parastatal SONAPRA which had a monopoly on seed cotton
marketing and processing and on lint exports, and was in charge of input supply (through a credit
scheme) to cotton farmers. Low world prices in 1986 revealed high inefficiencies of the state-run
system which resulted in heavy financial losses for the cotton sector. As part of the second Borgou
project however, the sector was completely restructured and costs reduced to make SONAPRA and
the sector relatively more efficient despite the low world market prices and the appreciating CFAF
against the US dollar. Because of the pressure on the sector from the low prices, discussions began
in 1989 on including the privatization of SONAPRA as part of the Structural Adjustment Program
supported by IMF and the World Bank, but this was not carried out. The reform of the cotton sector
was further elaborated in the Agricultural Sector Restructuring Program and the Letter of Rural
Development Policy in 1991 especially as regards reducing the cost of extension and improving
primary marketing and supporting farmer organizations. The reform was viewed as a response to
inherent weaknesses of the sectoral organization that became apparent in the late 1980s and early
1990s; and the sensitivity of sector viability to changes in world market prices as well as the
political pressure on the industry especially on SONAPRA.

During the period between1993 and 2000 Benin introduced significant changes in the structure of
the filière: (a) the input supply function was progressively transferred to the private sector, and
SONAPRA withdrew from this activity in 2000; (b) 8 private ginners were licensed between 1995


                                                                                                                              1

and 1998, and were attributed quotas of seed cotton by SONAPRA until 2000 when the monopoly
of SONAPRA on seed cotton marketing was abolished; (c) an inter-professional association1 was
created, grouping the concerned professional associations in charge of managing the critical
functions2 for the operation of the sector and of coordinating the various professional families; (d) a
clearing house3 was created, through which all payments made by ginners for cotton had to be
channeled, so that the repayment of the input credit could be deducted before final payment to
producers. While these were regarded as important reforms fully supported by the respective
structural adjustment programs of the 1990s, a major flaw that was not addressed was to leave the
sector as a less concentrated but highly regulated system, in which seed cotton was allocated by the
inter-profession to ginners proportionally to their ginning capacity, and without competition among
them, while prices of seed cotton remained fixed and panterritorial4. This was a deliberate decision
agreed on by the Government and the various actors forming the interprofession. Because of this
decision, a new National Strategic Plan for the Development of the Cotton Sector was issued in
2001, with the stated objective of "developing a private but nationally integrated cotton supply
chain," the management of which would be transferred from the Government to an inter-
professional body. The privatization of SONAPRA was then scheduled.

While the reforms were ambitious and introduced private sector participation and eventual
management of the sector, they presented major challenges of implementation since there was no
clear regulatory framework within which the reforms were supposed to be implemented, and this
led to what was perceived to be a high degree of institutional disarray in the short term. The
Government of Benin recognized that the success of the reform would be highly dependant on the
capacity of the newly created inter-professional bodies to play their role in the new sectoral
organization, and on the capacity of the farmer organizations, very weak at that time, to organize
and represent farmers. It therefore agreed with and requested support from the Bank to address
identified areas of weakness, especially to support the new institutions and farmer organizations.
The rationale of the project under review was to support the ongoing reform process through
capacity building of those institutions, and to help the sector evolve progressively towards a system
based on competition.

The PAD clearly viewed the reforms carried out by the Government in the cotton sector as first
steps towards a more competitive system. The available documentation on the discussions held at
design and appraisal stage shows that the transition period was expected to last 2 to 3 years and to
lead to a system of contract farming. This is also noted in the PAD (page 28). It was expected that
this process would increase the productivity and cost efficiency in the sector, foster development of
cotton production, increase farmers' incomes, and thus contribute to poverty reduction through the
generation of income multiplier effects.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO as stated in the PAD and the Credit Agreement differ slightly. The PDO as stated in the
PAD is: "Increased cotton sector productivity and efficiency through successful transition to a more
competitive system of production and trading". The PDO as stated in the Credit Agreement is: "To



1Association Interprofessionnelle du Coton (AIC)

2input supply, credit, seed production and distribution, extension, research, quality control

3Centrale de Sécurisation des paiements et de Recouvrement (CSPR)

4Before 1993 there was no allocation of seed cotton as SONAPRA was the sole ginner.



                                                                                                     2

assist the Borrower in increasing the productivity and efficiency of its cotton sector by moving from
a monopolistic, centrally administered production system to a system based on competition." This
ICR uses the PDO of the Credit Agreement because it is more precise in what the project tried to
achieve and it is the binding one5.

The key PDO indicators as identified by the project's logical framework were: (i) AIC has set up
adequate mechanisms to successfully provide technical support services to farmers and ginners; (ii)
producers and ginners have acquired the capacity to make pricing and marketing decisions through
independent contracts by the end of the 4th year. It was expected that this would lead to: (a) an
increase in average cotton yields by 10 and 15 percent respectively in the 2nd and 4th year of the
project compared to the baseline; (b) an increase in farmer incomes from cotton production by at
least 30 percent by the end of the project compared to the baseline; and (c) an increase in the
farmers' share in the cotton export price by 10 and 20 percent respectively in the 2nd and 4th year of
the project compared to the baseline. Items (a) ­ (c) were identified as higher level sector-related
CAS goals.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Neither the PDO nor the key indicators was formally revised during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries targeted by the project were the cotton farmers (350 000 cotton farmers
according to the 2002 census), who represented more than 50 percent of the farming population.
They are predominantly small farmers with an average farm size of around 2.4 ha. Cotton farmers
were expected to benefit from the improved efficiency of the cotton sector, and to increase their
share in the market value of the lint cotton produced. As cotton was cultivated by a large proportion
of farmers, increased incomes of cotton farmers were expected to have a large spillover effect on
rural incomes as a whole.

1.5 Original Components

The project comprised 5 components:

Component 1: Support to the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC) (US$4.15 million)

Under this component support was to be provided to build the capacity of the AIC. As the AIC
through its technical secretariat would be in charge of the management of the project, the project
funds would also cover the provision of advisory services to assist the secretariat in its management
responsibilities. AIC was intended (i) to organize and coordinate sector-wide technical services (for
the delivery of critical functions, such as extension, research, quality control, seed production and
distribution) through contracting with service providers, a role previously played by SONAPRA;
(ii) to be a framework for consultation among farmers and operators on policy and institutional
issues, and to become the entity in charge of coordination and management of the sector after the
planned withdrawal of the government; (iii) to represent the sector in interactions with Government
on all aspects of policy design and implementation. The capacity building of the new institution was
therefore a key condition for the achievement of the PDO.




5The PAD should have been revised to reflect the description of the PDO in the Financing Agreement.



                                                                                                       3

Component 2: Support to the Centrale de Sécurisation des paiements et du Recouvrement
(CSPR) (US$3.1 million)

The purpose of the component was to provide technical and institutional support to build up the
capacity of the CSPR, through (i) provision of technical advisory services, including for carrying
out studies, collecting data, and preparing technical reports; (ii) the provision of training; and (iii)
the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials. Prior to the reform, SONAPRA used
to finance, through a bank credit, the purchase of seed cotton from farmers, and to guarantee the
credit taken by input importers. As a monopsony buyer, it could also recover the price of inputs
distributed to farmers at the time of the marketing of seed cotton. With the end of SONAPRA's
monopsony, a new organization was needed to ensure the repayment to input suppliers by deducting
the credit due from the payment to farmers of the seed cotton purchased by ginners. The efficient,
transparent and timely operation of CSPR was therefore a key condition for a sustainable credit
recovery mechanism, and hence for the success of the reform.

Component 3: Support to Fédération des Unions de Producteurs (FUPRO) (US$4.6 million)

This component was to strengthen the institutional and technical capacities of the existing producer
organizations at all levels (national, regional and local), with a focus on two major areas: (i)
strengthening of national level leadership and organization; (ii) building up commercial and
technical capacities. Farmer organizations were crucial in the new organization of the sector, as they
would become, in addition to their traditional role in primary collection of seed cotton and input
distribution, one of the major actors of the new inter-professional bodies (AIC and CSPR), and
would be in charge, through a subsidiary (CAGIA), of preparing the bids for selection of input
suppliers and supervising the input distribution.

Component 4: Support to sector-wide technical services programs (US$4.75 million)

This component supported the provision of sector-wide technical services (also called critical
functions), which were previously under SONAPRA's responsibility, and have become, with the
reform, a responsibility of AIC. The project would finance, in the two first years, 70 percent of the
cost of these services, while the private sector, through a levy collected by AIC on the seed cotton
produced, would finance the remaining 30 percent. The share financed by the project would then
drop to 60 percent.

Component 5: Support to the privatization of SONAPRA ginning operations (US$1.4 million)

Given that Government had agreed as part of the HIPC process to privatize SONAPRA's ginning
plants in line with the long term objective of a competitive cotton sector, this component was to
provide support to the Government of Benin to carry out the privatization in a transparent way. The
support consisted mainly in financing the services of a commercial bank in charge of assisting the
Government in this process. In addition assistance would be provided to the Cellule des Operations
de Denationalization which would be in charge of managing the privatization process. The
assistance would include the provision of technical advisory services and training, the acquisition of
equipment, furniture, and materials.

1.6 Revised Components

In 2006 producer organizations in Benin were restructured. Component 3 was revised in order to
reflect the new structure. The support previously granted to FUPRO was transferred to the newly
created Conseil National de Producteurs de Coton and its regional and communal branches.




                                                                                                      4

1.7 Other significant changes

The Government requested a change in the procurement procedures to allow procurement for the
delivery of critical functions by relevant public services through single source contracts, because of
lack of private credible entities that could render these services. This request was approved by the
World Bank and the Credit Agreement was amended in January, 2004. Following the mid term
review, the project reallocated funds among the components (using the unallocated reserve of
US$3.15 million), increasing component 1 to US$5.95 million and component 4 to US$9.4 million,
while slightly decreasing the other components. A reallocation of the expenditure categories was
simultaneously requested and the Credit Agreement was amended in February, 2006. The same
amendment provided for the extension of the closing date of the project from June 30, 2006           to
June 30, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Strategic relevance and Approach
The project's objective was very relevant in its focus on increased productivity and efficiency.
Moreover the activities supported by the project contributed to ongoing functioning of the cotton
sector during a period of great difficulty due to the decline in world prices. Bank inputs during
preparation facilitated a very participatory preparation of the project and took into account lessons
of earlier domestic market reforms in other African countries suggesting the importance of
gradualism and pragmatism when moving from heavily controlled systems to more open ones.

Institutional Aspects
The project preparation team internalized guidance with regard to the need to build on existing
institutional arrangements and to increase technical and institutional capacities in the private sector.
The project's strong focus on capacity strengthening of weak and young institutions was right.
However, the project design did not fully address the fragility of a sector which had gone through
major organizational changes. The objective to move towards a system based on competition and
independent contracts between ginners and producers away from a centrally administered system
was not well advised and in hindsight difficult to be achieved over the project period. In retrospect,
such a transition could even have introduced real risks of major disruptions of the input supply and
credit system as has been documented in recent research on cotton sector reforms in Africa (World
Bank 2008). It should be noted, though, that no specific interventions were specified at appraisal
stage to effectuate that transition.

Policy aspects and risk assessment
A further weakness at entry was that the team did not properly diagnose the political economy of
the sector which led to ad hoc interventions by the state in ways not necessarily consistent with the
agreed program of reforms. The risk that Government could slow down the whole reform process
was to some extent anticipated. However, the risk that Government could delay the privatization of
SONAPRA was rated substantial instead of high, and the risk that Government might interfere with
the proper operation of the CSPR mechanism was rated moderately but should have been rated at
least substantial. The identified mitigation measure was policy dialogue, which although
appropriate and helpful, is known not to be sufficient to overcome very strong political opposition
expressed by vested interests (see also section 6 on lessons learnt). As a further mitigation measure
early on in the preparation process and throughout the project implementation period the Bank
invested in broad and open consultation to forge consensus and alliances for the reform process.




                                                                                                      5

2.2 Implementation

During the project period, there were no major changes in the project design, neither was the project
ever in a risk status. The Implementation progress was rated unsatisfactory or moderately
unsatisfactory in more than half of the ISRs. The project started relatively slowly with a four month
delay in effectiveness and a disbursement lag of about two years. At the end of the project the funds
were fully disbursed6. The midterm review was carried out in the third year of the project. At this
stage it was decided that the original project period of four years would be too short and the closing
date was extended from June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2008.

Support from Government (both the one prior to 2006 and the new Government) to the reform
process was not as robust as envisaged during the project design. The pre-2006 Government
intervened several times in the sector and indirectly supported the setting up of dissident input
distribution and primary marketing mechanisms, uncontrolled creation of new farmer organization
networks, and undermined and cancelled the process towards the privatization of SONAPRA's
ginning plants. While the new Government elected in 2006 showed some initial commitment to
move forward with the reforms by addressing the confusion in the different professional bodies and
agreed to moving ahead with the privatization of SONAPRA that the previous Government had
cancelled, it turned to unconstructive interventions in 2007. For instance: (i) the Government
decided to cancel the privatization bid in 2007, resulting in additional delays; (ii) it decided to
cancel the regulatory framework (Accord-cadre) in 2007, and to replace it by a transitional Cotton
Committee in which Government representatives were dominant; (iii) import licenses were granted
to input distributors who were not among those selected by the Inter-profession; (iv) the
Government reduced in 2006 from FCFA 15 to 5 the cess for critical functions, which was clearly
not sufficient to cover the cost of the critical functions, and brought cotton research and extension
services back under full public responsibility, without providing the adequate financing; (v) the
Government cancelled several times the bids for input supply organized by the inter-profession,
resulting in late delivery of inputs; (vi) SONAPRA was allowed in 2007 to bid for input import and
distribution, despite the previous decision to withdraw from this activity; (vii) the Government
approved recently the creation of a new ginnery, despite a previous commitment not to increase the
existing ginning capacity, exceeding by far the seed cotton production. The lack of Government
commitment throughout the project particularly affected the implementation of components 1, 4 and
5 which focus on the establishment of an efficient primary marketing system, the establishment of
an effective input credit system, the provision of critical functions, and the privatization of
SONAPRA.

World cotton prices sharply decreased during the project lifetime. The adverse price movement was
aggravated by the depreciation of the USD/FCFA exchange rate (the export price of cotton in FCFA
fell by 40 percent between 1995 and 2008). Between 1999 and 2006 SONAPRA accumulated
losses amounting to FCFA 36 billion. The decline in prices made it more difficult for the
Government to withdraw as expected from the sector, since the profitability of non-governmental
actors was in question. Moreover, the Government of Benin, like those in neighboring countries,
was reluctant to pass the full fall in prices on to farmers, and subsidized producer prices in 2001/02
and 2004/05. In the recent past the overall fiscal impact of the cotton sector has most likely become
negative due to input and price subsidies and the incidence on the government budget of
SONAPRA's losses.




6The overshooting displayed in the disbursement graph is due to exchange rate movements (see data sheet).



                                                                                                            6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design The project had a logical framework to monitor and evaluate performance. It laid out clearly
objectives and causal relationships between components and PDO. In general indicators were
operational and had target values.

Implementation An M&E system and team was set up which collected baseline data. The project
also set up an information system to monitor the performance of the cotton sector (areas cultivated,
inputs purchased, credit granted, yields, production of seed cotton, export of lint cotton). In order to
supply the data base with the requested production data, annual field surveys were conducted under
the project supervision and funding by regional extension centers, based on a sample of 1 percent of
cotton producers. At mid term review the monitoring framework was reviewed and improved with
regards to its suitability for results-based project management.

Use The M&E system provided quarterly updated data on the progress made by the project, which
was used during supervision missions. The collection of sector-wide information gave AIC the tools
to monitor the performance of the cotton sector, and information was widely disseminated among
stakeholders. The dissemination of sectoral information is regarded as a very successful aspect of
the implementation of the project under review. An AIC web site was also created and is regularly
updated (www.aicbenin.org). Monthly and quarterly news letters on the life of the cotton sector are
regularly published.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Fiduciary: The project has been in compliance with its fiduciary responsibilities. Project audit
reports were received by the Bank on time with unqualified opinion. Financial Monitoring Reports
were of acceptable quality and received on a timely basis. No major financial management issues
were identified during the implementation of the project. Withdrawal applications were submitted
and fully replenished. The project financial management staff was well qualified. The main
weaknesses in the project's financial management included long delays in the adoption of the
annual budgets. The Bank's procurement specialists regularly participated in supervision missions.
No major problems were identified. The procurement activities have been considered as satisfactory
in all ISRs.

Safeguards: The environmental category B was assigned to the project under review. It triggered the
policy on environmental assessment (OP 4.01) and the policy on pest management (OP 4.09). The
Environmental Assessment (EA) conducted as part of project preparation focused on two main
issues: (i) the operation of cotton ginnery plants and (ii) the pest management.

(i) The audit of cotton ginning plants during preparation revealed an unsatisfactory environmental
management performance. Areas where significant improvement would be needed were air
pollution, wastewater discharge and solid and liquid wastes, emergency preparedness and response
capacity, hazardous materials, and occupational hazards. Environmental management measures
were proposed, for which implementation would be the responsibility of SONAPRA, local, and
central government (Ministry of Environment and Benin Environmental Agency (BEA)). The
project was not successful in ensuring the implementation of those measures. Despite supervision
efforts and several training workshops an audit made in 2008 by the Benin Environmental Agency
(BEA) concluded that most ginners failed to adopt an environmental management plan as
recommended. The laws of Benin did not require the ginneries to adopt the recommended
environmental management plans, and the project was unable to exert sufficient pressure or
incentive to induce them to do so.




                                                                                                      7

(ii) The EA concluded that the project had an obligation to promote Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) approaches to reduce reliance on pesticides and ensure their safe use. A Pest Management
Plan (PMP) was prepared as part of the project preparation. Following the recommendations of the
PMP, a workshop on IPM was held at the beginning of the project and training of extension agents
and farmers was carried out, resulting in a reduction in pesticide usage on 15 percent of the cotton
area. Farmers who followed the IPM approach also registered an average increase in yield of
300kg/ha and reduced input cost of up to FCFA 8000 per hectare.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has put in place arrangements to ensure financial sustainability and monitoring of the
sector management system after the close of the project. Since the end of the project (June, 2008),
the operating cost of AIC and CSPR and the cost of critical functions have been borne adequately
by the inter-profession.

Several new initiatives by the Bank and other organizations are planned. The EU has programmed
funds within the framework of the Euro-African Partnership on Cotton to provide continued support
for farmer organizations, in particular in the form of training. The AIC has identified areas for
future support, and mechanisms to secure the support are under discussion. Cotton will clearly
remain central to Benin's agricultural sector, and stakeholders are jointly identifying areas in need
of support. The GOB has requested additional assistance from the World Bank and from other
development partners within the framework of the Comprehensive African Agricultural
Development Program, and in the WB's Country Assistance Strategy.               Given the increased
emphasis on agriculture and the continuing importance of cotton, it is clear that the institutions
supported under this project will continue to receive support in the future. With the progress
achieved specifically in the cotton sector under this project and the privatization of SONAPRA
undertaken soon after its closure, future support for cotton will most likely be included as part of a
broader strategy to support growth and diversification in agriculture.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives are clearly consistent with the current Bank's strategy, as expressed in
particular in the latest CAS7 (issued in 2003). The project was designed through participatory
processes with a clear focus on institutional development. It relied on young institutions and
stakeholder representatives for its implementation while simultaneously strengthening their
capacities. Both design and implementation were clearly relevant to the project's objective. The
objective of achieving an efficient and well-performing cotton sector remains very relevant for
Benin. This is confirmed by the recent privatization of SONAPRA, four months after the closure of
the project, and a new strategy adopted by GOB in December 2008 which recommends a
consolidation of the current system. The fact that the new strategy is the outcome of a broad
consultation process and presents AIC as a key element of the sector confirms the relevance of the
project's design and implementation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project cannot be rated as successful because only one of two PDO indicators had been
achieved by the end of the project: The AIC has set up adequate mechanisms to provide technical



7The Country Assistance Strategy for FY09-12 is currently under preparation.



                                                                                                    8

support services to farmers and ginners. The second indicator (Producers and ginners have acquired
the capacities to make pricing and marketing decisions through independent contracts by the end of
the 4th year of the project) was not achieved as no independent contracts were being signed.
Therefore, one of the main objectives of the project, the transition towards an efficient primary
marketing system based on competition and contractual relations between ginners and farmer
organizations was not achieved8.

The achievement of the PDO is, however, only moderately unsatisfactory because the project
provided critical assistance to institutions needed to undergird the reforms and built the necessary
capacity for a transition to a more competitive sector. The following outputs were achieved, with
some shortcomings, due to the support of the project: (i) satisfactory implementation of all sector-
wide technical services programs (output component 4), (ii) establishment of an effective input
credit recovery system (output components 1 &2), (iii) strengthened capacity of farmer
organizations (output component 3), (iv) privatization of SONAPRA (output component 5). The
privatization of SONAPRA was completed four months after the closure of the project. It was a
sector policy action that received support from two PRSCs, and while completed, was achieved
under tight time constraints and modalities that resulted in limited bids and an outcome of a
dominant industry position of one private ginner.

The overall performance of the sector during the project's life is relevant to the rating, although
indirectly so. Productivity, as measured by seed cotton yields, does not show a significant change
over the project period. The M&E data show that the average income per cotton farmer increased
by 23 percent between 2003 and 2008. Relatively stable yield levels and increased incomes among
cotton farmers can be considered as good performance, given the fall in global cotton prices and
appreciation of the CFA franc (see section 2.2). A number of small farmers (particularly in the
South of the country, where climatic conditions are less favorable) abandoned cotton because of
declining profitability and alternative options. This resulted in a considerable increase in the
average area under cotton per farm (from less than 1 ha to nearly 2 ha), as farm sizes are much
larger in the North. Since the farmers who exited may have been the marginal ones, the change in
yields and incomes may reflect structural change rather than trends in productivity alone. Although
structural change was not an explicit objective of the reforms, it may have been a desirable outcome,
since traditional management of the sector kept marginal producers in cotton. A full assessment of
the change in structure and composition of the sector and the welfare of those who exited from
cotton is desirable, but was not undertaken for the present ICR.

Table 1 Yields and prices of cotton in Benin (2000-2008)

                                   2000/1 2001/2 2002/3 2003/4 2004/5 2005/6 2006/7 2007/8 2008/09
Seed cotton yields (kg/ha)         908       1084     1102       1099     1378      996       1036      1153
Producer price                     200       200      180        190      190       170       170       170      190
index A                            925       755      727        825      671       652       665       695      732
Producer price/index9              51%       63%      59%        55%      67%       62%       61%       58%      62%
Producer price subsidy                           x                            x
Source: Project M&E

The final line of Table 1 indicates a dynamic process behind the price setting mechanism in Benin.
The relatively high producer prices in 2001/02 could be maintained only with introduction of



8It is worth mentioning that such a transition could have led to major disruptions in the sector. See also section 2.1.

9assuming a ginning ratio of 42%


                                                                                                                        9

explicit subsidy. They were subsequently adjusted downward and maintained until the price level in
2004/05 required subsidy. Maintenance of producer prices and management of the resulting
subsidies required good performance of the marketing institutions and services to producers.
Activities under the project contributed toward management of this dynamic tension. The degree of
contribution is difficult to quantify.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic and financial analysis was not undertaken given the institutional nature of the outputs
generated by the project. The cost effectiveness of the project can however be assessed by the fact
that the operating cost for the institutions supported by the project (AIC, CSPR and farmers
organizations) and for the delivery of critical services (20 FCFA/kg of seed cotton for the total)
were comparable to the corresponding cost in other countries of the sub-region (Burkina Faso and
Mali). The fact that AIC was at the same time a beneficiary and the implementing agency of the
project created synergies and reduced project management costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The project clearly did not achieve the stated objective, and for that reason is rated unsatisfactory,
but moderately so in light of the contribution to the institutions serving farmers and the sector, and
the privatization of SONAPRA completed soon after closing.             If the stated PDO had been
improving the young institutions the outcome would have been satisfactory.            This takes into
consideration that the efficiency analysis suggests that the results were achieved at relatively low
cost and that the objective of a well-performing and efficient cotton sector remains very relevant for
Benin.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had a positive social impact related to the strengthening of village level farmer
organizations, which contributed to the empowerment of rural communities. A second positive
social impact was the reduced use of pesticides on farmer fields (see section 2.4), which reduced
health risks for the rural population. The M&E data show that the average income per cotton farmer
increased by 23 percent between 2003 and 2008, which suggests a poverty reducing impact. The
data have to be interpreted with caution, though, given the need to assess incomes of those who left
cotton (see section 3.2).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project contributed significantly to institutional development of the cotton sector through
capacity building of the main stakeholder organizations. More detail is provided in section 3.2
above and in Annex 2. It is likely that the stress occasioned by the fall in global prices would have
hit the sector much harder had the strengthening of producer organizations and the channels for
provision of inputs supported under the project not been in place.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project increased the adoption of crop rotation (cotton with food crops) among farmers (see
annex 2 on component 4). This practice has a positive impact on food crop production due to



                                                                                                    10

residues of fertilizer applied to cotton. Support for production of cotton thus spilled over to food
crops and enhanced food security.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A four-day stakeholder workshop was held in Ouidah, in April, 2008, to assess the achievements of
the project, its relevance and to prepare a possible follow up. The workshop acknowledged a
number of major achievements, in particular: preparation and evaluation of production campaigns,
capacity strengthening of technical entities supported by the project, development of leadership and
negotiation capacities for leaders of producer organizations, improved cooperation between
producer organizations and other actors. Major constraints were also identified: decreasing world
prices for cotton, declining soil fertility, low level of village group secretaries, and problems with
recovery of credit, weak extension network, and lack of motivation of producers because of the low
price of seed cotton. The workshop concluded that the project objectives were still relevant, and that
the project has moved towards the achievement of these objectives. It recommended the
establishment of a new framework agreement between the Government and the inter-profession, the
institutional strengthening of the inter-profession and of the entities in charge of technical support
services, and further technical and managerial training for producer organization personnel.

A beneficiary survey undertaken by the project M&E for the campaign 2007/08 found that farmers
are almost fully satisfied with the quality and quantity of inputs delivered by the private sector.
Only about half of the farmers are satisfied with the leadership of their organizations. Satisfaction
among producers, ginners, and input suppliers with the technical services provided in 2007/08 is 88
percent, 60 percent, and 50 percent, respectively. (See Table 6 Annex 2)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: substantial

The main development outcome of the project is the strengthening of the input supply system and
the effective provision of technical services, as well as increased capacity of the main stakeholder
organizations. The sustainability of these outcomes is at a substantial risk due to financial factors.
The cost of AIC and the provision of technical services to farmers and ginners are borne by the
members of the inter-profession. The sustainability of AIC and the provision of the current level of
technical services will be at risk if the private sector cannot maintain its current funding for these
activities. Given the current global economic crisis, the likely decline in the world prices of cotton,
the likelihood that this situation occurs is high. However, the new cotton strategy adopted in
December 2008 recognizes high importance of the services provided by AIC and the critical
functions for the performance of the cotton sector. It includes a provision that allows AIC to seek
additional support from cooperating partners and government if needed. The overall risk to the
project's outcomes is therefore substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory

Bank performance at entry was not satisfactory as significant shortcomings existed with respect to
the political and institutional assessment of the sector and the project's risk assessment. The design
did not adequately address the fragility of a sector which had gone through major organizational


                                                                                                    11

changes and created a project the success of which was heavily dependent on political economy
factors outside of its control. However, Bank inputs during preparation facilitated a very
participatory preparation of the project and took into account lessons of earlier domestic market
reforms in other African countries. The fiduciary aspects and safeguard policies were adequately
taken into consideration. Preparation time was within the region's parameters (11 months) and
incurred low cost (US$155,650). Performance is therefore rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: moderately satisfactory

Supervision was intense and thorough and benefited from continuity in the task team. It was further
characterized by:
    · Continued focus on the reform process. The regular supervision missions consistently
        engaged with the Government on interventions and delays that interfered with
        implementation of the agreed sectoral reforms (e.g. new regulatory framework, privatization
        of SONAPRA)
    · Diligent oversight in the execution of fiduciary policies (although achievement of
        commitments on environmental safeguard policies was inadequate as noted).
    · Demonstrated flexibility in adapting to changed circumstances by redesigning the
        component on producer organizations to reflect new organizational structures.

Implementation progress was rated unsatisfactory or moderately unsatisfactory in more than half of
the ISRs without restructuring of the project or cancelling of nonperforming components. The Bank
considered the possibility of closing the project, but decided to continue because the coordination
and services provided by AIC with support from the project were critical to the sector. In 2005 the
country economic unit in the Bank joined the dialogue on reforms in the cotton sector. The
privatization of SONAPRA was temporarily included as a trigger to budget support operations to
increase focus on it (PRSC3). The Bank however removed the trigger when it realized that the
Government was not ready at the time to privatize. In 2008 the privatization10 was made a trigger of
PRSC 5. The privatization was in fact achieved soon after closing.

Despite continued unsatisfactory implementation progress ISRs rated the development objective as
satisfactory throughout the implementation period until one year before closing. A rating of MS
might have been more appropriate, but a judgment that the project was making satisfactory progress
toward meeting objectives was justifiable due to the incremental nature of the capacity
enhancement supported. One year before closing when the last harvest in the project timeframe had
occurred, and there was no measurable increase in productivity, which was a key part of the PDO, it
became obvious to the team that the project's objective could not be reached. Accordingly the rating
was downgraded to unsatisfactory.


Overall, the performance of the project M&E was satisfactory. There were weaknesses in the
compliance with environmental safeguards. The ratings on safeguards did not properly reflect the
continued non-compliance with environmental safeguards by some cotton ginneries. The team
included a social scientist who also carried out the supervision of environmental safeguards. More
specialized environmental expertise should have been brought in.




10Technically the trigger was not the privatization but the establishment of a new company with the ginning assets of
SONAPRA and participation in the newly established company of a private operator.



                                                                                                                     12

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: moderately satisfactory

The project design was moderately unsatisfactory for reasons noted above. Supervision was on
balance satisfactory and helped to keep positive momentum for the reforms and for the sector
during very difficult times, although it was flawed with regard to environmental safeguards. This
review accepts the premise that the decision to keep the project open despite slower than envisaged
progress was correct. On balance, therefore, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory, but only
moderately so. A finding that the Bank's performance was less than satisfactory would require clear
argumentation that the project should have been closed or restructured. Even had the decision been
made to restructure, the restructuring would have entailed largely a restatement of the PDO, rather
than change in actual activities financed, and would therefore have been largely pro forma. For
these reasons the Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: unsatisfactory

There were two Governments during implementation. The first Government committed to a process
and pace of reform that was not maintained during the course of implementation.            The second
government, after some time in power, took the policy framework in a new direction that was not
consistent with the institutions that the project was put in place to support. The unsatisfactory rating
of Government performance is further justified by the (i) delay in ensuring effectiveness of the
project, (ii) the noncompliance with the covenant on the establishment of an independent rural
development fund, and (iii) the noncompliance with the covenant on the implementation of an
environmental management plan by all ginning companies in Benin.                For these reasons the
Government's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: moderately satisfactory

The implementing agency AIC has diligently coordinated the project activities. Project reports were
received on time and in good quality. AIC's performance was, however, hampered by long delays
in adopting annual budgets.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: moderately unsatisfactory

The moderately satisfactory performance of the implementing agency was not sufficient to
overcome the drag on project implementation exerted by the Government's inability to keep
commitments fundamental to the project's success.             The overall rating of the borrower's
performance is therefore moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

(i) Using investment lending in tandem with budget support to implement difficult reforms
may be more effective than each instrument alone. The project under review experienced that
reforms are extremely difficult to implement within a sector as strategic and as politically sensitive


                                                                                                      13

as cotton. Even if it is clearly stated initially, Government commitment can hardly be taken for
granted on a long period of time, unless irreversible steps are taken at the beginning of the reform
process, which was not the case in the Benin reform process. The privatization of SONAPRA was
finally completed under joint support of specific investment lending and budget support. Budget
support can signal and facilitate commitment to reforms. Strong sector teams from the investment
side are, however, needed to lead an effective policy dialogue.

(ii) Institutional development and structural reforms should be outward looking and keep an
eye on evolving global developments. The project under review and the underlying cotton sector
reform were affected by decisions of key stakeholders driven by internal struggles and the political
economy of the national cotton sector. Evidence based analysis highlighting the performance of
alternative approaches followed in the region could have improved decision making. The Bank is
well suited to provide such kind of input as shown by the recently completed Comparative Analysis
of Organization and Performance of African Cotton Sectors (World Bank 2008). The project was
further affected by developments on international commodity and financial markets. Designs need
to be forward looking, anticipate such external effects and be flexible enough to adapt.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 7 for Borrower's ICR. No comments on draft ICR received from the Borrower.
(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                                                                  14

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing11

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


                                                                        Actual/Latest
            Components                    Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
                                             (USD millions)            Estimate (USD
                                                                          millions)              Appraisal

Operationalization of the AIC                        3.60                     8.11                  225%
Support to CSPR                                      3.05                     3.47                  114%
Support to FUPRO                                     5.35                     6.31                  118%
Support to STSP                                      7.00                   12.65                   181%
Privatization of SONAPRA's
ginning operations                                   1.50                     1.20                   80%

PPF                                                  0.55                     0.55                  100%
               Total Baseline Cost                  21.05
Physical Contingencies                               1.05
Price Contingencies                                  2.10
                Total Project Costs                 24.20                    32.29                  135%
     Total Financing Required12                     24.20                    32.29                  135%

(b) Financing
                                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

             Source of Funds                        Type of         Estimate          Estimate     Percentage of
                                                Cofinancing            (USD             (USD         Appraisal
                                                                    millions)         millions)

Borrower                                       Counterpart
                                               funding                  0.30             0.85          283%

International Development
Association (IDA)                              Credit                  18.00            21.37          119%

Non-Government Organization
(NGO) of Borrowing Country                     Contribution             5.90            10.12          171%

                    Total                                              24.20            32.34          134%




11Exchange rate at appraisal: 1US$ = 700 XOF
Average exchange rate during implementation period (weighted average of annual mean rates): 1US$ = 512 XOF

12The actual amounts do not correspond exactly with the appraisal estimates, because the grant was in SDR and there
has been a substantial change in the exchange rates between dollar and SDR. See also footnote 9.




                                                                                                                15

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The following section describes the outputs by component. They are compared with original output
targets. A table with data on available performance indicators is given at the end of this section.

Component 1: Support to the Interprofessional Cotton Association (AIC)

Under this component capacity building support was provided to the AIC in the form of: (i)
technical advisory services, including for carrying out studies, colleting data, and preparing
technical reports, (ii) the provision of training, and (iii) the acquisition of vehicles, equipment,
furniture, and materials. Outputs of this component are:

Legal framework and contractual arrangements

The legal framework and contractual arrangements for the sector's operation were fully set up by
2005. A study was first done under AIC's supervision, at the beginning of the project, to define the
legal framework for the new sector organization. Based on the recommendations of this study, a
framework agreement (accord-cadre) was prepared and signed in 2005 both by the Government and
AIC, defining the respective responsibilities of Government and of the interprofessional body in the
sector management and co-ordination (in particular the responsibilities for providing critical
functions), and recognizing AIC as the co-ordinating body for all actors of the supply chain, thus
giving a legal authority to its decision. This agreement was cancelled (or not renewed) by
Government in May, 2007. The Government decided to replace it by a new commission, in which
Government representatives are dominant, but the private stake holders of the sector refused to
participate and continued to organize as they used to under the Accord-cadre. Despite the
cancellation of the Accord-cadre, the framework for the sector organization is still considered as
valid by the participating professional families, and contractual arrangements between AIC and the
various service providers for critical functions are still renewed annually. A new law (loi-cadre) has
been prepared by AIC to replace the accord-cadre, but up to now the Government has not taken it
into consideration.

Arbitration and Conciliation Chamber

An Arbitration and Conciliation Chamber has been set up, following a feasibility study financed by
the Swiss Cooperation, in order to solve the disputes among stake holders or the cotton sector. The
members and the Chairman of the Chamber have been elected and trained, and its by-laws drafted
and adopted. The Chamber is now fully operational, and has been active in resolving a number of
disputes.

Monitoring/Evaluation

The project monitoring/evaluation system is able to provide quarterly updated data on the progress
made by the project. The team has also set up, with the assistance of a consulting firm, an
information system to follow up the performances of the cotton sector (areas cultivated, inputs
purchased, credit granted, yields, production of seed cotton, export of lint cotton) which gives AIC
the tools for an efficient follow up of performances and which is widely disseminated among stake
holders. In order to supply the data base with the requested production data, annual field surveys are
conducted, under the project supervision and funding, by regional extension centers, based on a
sample of 1 percent of cotton producers. An AIC web site has also been created and is regularly



                                                                                                   16

updated (www.aicbenin.org). Monthly and quarterly news letters on the life of the cotton sector are
regularly published.

Training program

A training program has been established, including the training of AIC staff, of surveyors working
for the monitoring/evaluation system, of cotton extension agents and quality control staff. This
program has been fully implemented.


Table 2 Component 1: Support to AIC ­ Selected quantitative outputs

                                                                                        Total
Number of issues of monthly newsletter published (AIC Coton)                            26
Number of annual service contracts signed for delivery of critical functions            12
Number of AIC staff trained                                                             11 (70%)
Number of studies financed by AIC                                                       11

Establishment of a primary marketing system

The Inter-profession has been able to set up a primary marketing system for seed cotton which
worked without major disruption during the last two years of the project. CSPR has been able to
control 100 percent of the flow of seed cotton in the last two years of the project. This performance
is as good as SONAPRA's performances at the time it had a monopoly on marketing of seed cotton,
but shows a substantial improvement as compared to the situation prevailing when the project
started.
The system has not evolved towards the establishment of independent contracts between producers
and ginners. Decisions on pricing and marketing of seed cotton, once taken by the Government
alone, are now taken at the inter-professional level and approved by the Government. The system is
still based on administrative allocation of seed cotton to ginners (proportionally to their ginning
capacity).

Establishment of an effective input supply system (component 2 also contributed to this output)

With the project's support, AIC has consolidated the input supply system designed under the reform
program. The satisfaction of farmers on quantities delivered has been measured by the M/E team by
comparing the quantities delivered to the need assessment made before the start of the campaign,
both at the beginning of the project (in 2003) and at the end (in 2008). It shows that the more than
95 percent of needs for fertilizers and 98 percent of the needs for insecticides expressed by the
farmers are satisfied, against respectively 54 percent and 85 percent at the beginning of the project.
The satisfaction of farmers on the quality of inputs (as measured through farmers' surveys) reaches
96 percent for fertilizers 90 percent for insecticides, against respectively 56 percent and 55 percent
at the beginning of the project. The performances on the component in this respect are thus clearly
above expectations, as the target was set at 80 percent (Table 6). The credit recovery ratio reached
an average of 97 percent in the three last years of the project, which compares favorably with the
situation described in the baseline study (90 percent). This ratio remains below the expected level
(Table 6). It is however quite satisfactory by usual standards, as all neighboring countries have had
lower performances during the period under review. The input credit was repaid to input
distributors immediately after collection of seed cotton in the three first years of the project. In
subsequent years, the repayment was made in two tranches because the advances paid by ginners
were not sufficient to cover the credit cost, which led to delays.




                                                                                                   17

Component 2: Support to the Centrale de Sécurisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement
(CSPR)

This component provided technical and institutional support to build up the capacity of the CSPR
through (i) provision of technical advisory services, including for carrying out studies, collecting
data, and preparing technical reports; (ii) the provision of training; and (iii) the acquisition of
vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials.

Component 3: Support to Fédération des Unions de Producteurs (FUPRO)

This component provided support to farmer organizations which included: (i) provision of technical
advisory services, in particular on cotton crop management, (ii) provision of training and
institutional support services, and (iii) acquisition of equipment, furniture and materials. The
component resulted in the following outputs:

Restructuring of farmer organizations

One of the main achievements of the component was to prepare and accompany the restructuring of
the farmer organizations, implemented in 2006. This restructuring, strongly supported by the project,
was designed at eliminating the identified weaknesses of the former organisation, which was not
cotton specific and therefore not sufficiently focused on cotton issues, and was not able to prevent
farmers from by-passing the national APEX and AIC. The new organization, enforced by decree,
stipulates that farmer representation would be proportional to the seed cotton production, and that
there could be only one cotton farmers association at village13, commune14, department15 and
national16 levels. This reform has been considered as satisfactory by cotton farmer representatives,
and stopped farmers from by-passing the national APEX and AIC. The support brought by the
project to FUPRO and its local branches was immediately transferred to the new organizations
(most of the time grouping the same individual farmers).

Election of leadership

With the support of the component, more than 90 percent of grass root associations elected their
leaders through a democratic and transparent process, and the boards of APEX associations were
elected in the same way in July, 2006. These elections did not give way to any major dispute.
According to M/E reports, statutory meetings are held in due time in all farmers associations, and
the quality of the minutes has significantly improved.

Training and advisory system

CNPC has also been able to set up, with the project's support, an efficient training and advisory
services system to members, with one training specialist in CNPC and in every CDPC, and
animators in most of CCPC. As a result of these training efforts, the technical capacities of grass



13(Groupement villageois de producteurs de coton, GVPC)

14(Conseil communal de Producteurs de coton, CCPC)

15(Conseil Départemental de Producteurs de coton, CDPC)

16(Conseil National des Producteurs de coton, CNPC)



                                                                                                 18

root organizations for primary marketing of seed cotton have been strengthened, resulting, in
particular, in reduced discrepancies between the weight of seed cotton on village markets and at
delivery to ginneries. The capacity of village associations to deal with input supply functions has
also been strengthened, but substantial efforts are still needed in this area. A uniform manual of
procedures has been adopted for all farmers associations. Its implementation in all associations is
under way, but the achievements remain below expectations (all associations were expected to use
an operational accounting system by the second year of the project, which was probably too
optimistic, given the restructuring and the need for extensive training), as more than one third of
associations are still reported to have book keeping practices below standards.

An efficient communication system

An efficient communication system has also been set up between the APEX and grass root level (all
communal and departmental APEX are connected to internet, and all grass root associations are
equipped with a cell phone), allowing an immediate dissemination of information among members,
as illustrated by the fact that all members were informed within 2 days of the new reform project
issued by the Government in September, 2008. This communication capacity strengthens
considerably the farmer organization, as it allows it to react immediately.

Table 3 Component 3: Support to producer organizations ­ selected quantitative outputs

                                                                                       Total
Number of farmers leaders trained                                                      3452
Number of training sessions for farmers leaders                                        19
Number of study tours for farmers leaders                                              133
Number of vehicles for farmers organizations                                           9
Number of motorcycles for farmers organizations                                        80
Staff recruited by farmers organizations (national, regional and communal levels)      141
Number of training sessions for FO staff                                               13
Number of village level organization secretaries trained                               4221 (88%)
Number of radio broadcasts for farmers information                                     128

Strengthened farmer organizations

Farmer organizations have considerably been strengthened as a result of this component. According
to M/E surveys, 50 percent of producers are satisfied (in 2008) with the leadership at village level
and 63 percent with the leadership at APEX level, which is considerably higher than the baseline
figure (respectively 7 percent and 23 percent), but remains below the target (Table 6). The recent
negotiations on seed cotton prices have however shown that Farmer representatives (at CNPC level)
are now able to participate actively in discussions within AIC and to efficiently represent the
interests of farmers.

Component 4: Support to sector-wide technical services programs

This component supported the provision of sector-wide technical services (for the delivery of
critical functions, such as extension, research, quality control, seed production and distribution).
AIC established an annual program for support services and contracted its implementation to
relevant public services. The project financed, in the two first years, 70 percent of the cost of these
services, while the private sector, through a levy collected by AIC on the seed cotton produced,
financed the remaining 30 percent. The share financed by the project then dropped to 60 percent.
The main outputs of this component are:



                                                                                                    19

Equipment of Research Institute and finance of research program

The laboratory of the Research Institute (CRA-CF) was equipped, enabling the Institute to identify
more rapidly pests and treatments. Within the framework of the research program partly financed
by the project, the Institute was able to identify and disseminate a new variety with higher yield
potential (H279) and to identify two other varieties still being tested. It disseminated a new pest
management system (LEC), which reduces by 50 percent the need for pesticides applications,
reduces accordingly production costs, and allows a yield increase of around 200 to 300 kg/ha. This
new technique is currently applied on 15 percent of the cotton area.


Extension services

AIC recruited and trained 450 extension agents specialized in cotton and seconded to the regional
extension centers of the Ministry of Agriculture, which contributed to significant improvements in
the quality of extension services (extension was previously done by non specialized agents). This
resulted in a considerable increase in the adoption ratio of technical recommendations, as assessed
by M/E (Table 4). In 2007 these were dismissed by Government and replaced with new, untrained
and generalist extension agents.

Table 4 Adoption rate of extension messages (percent)


                                                                   Total adoption rate
                                         2001-      2002-      2003-      2004-     2005-     2006-      2007-
Topic of extension                       2002        2003      2004        2005     2006       2007      2008

Choice and preparation of soil             16         23         29         34        41        47         51
Respect of planting date and
density of seed                            37         42         50         66        71        79         82

Plant maintenance                          37         39         50         57        60        63         65

Application of fumier                      22         28         41         54        60        71         73

Application of pesticides                  39         37         53         61        70        77         79

Physical monitoring of pests                1           1         1         1         3          6          8

Types of pesticides                         1           1         1         1         9         15         13

Crop rotation                               0           0         0         0         13        19         21

Harvesting techniques                      18         25         37         45        52        59         61

Marketing                                   1          1          2         3         13        21         23

Commercialisation                                                 1         2         8         13         15
Source : Evaluation programme Amélioration Productivité Cotonnière, Mars, 2005 & Evaluation campagne agricole
cotonière 2005-06, 2006-07 et 2007-08.




                                                                                                             20

Quality Control System

The quality control system, both for seed cotton and lint has also been maintained during the project
life time. As a result, the quality of Benin cotton, traditionally good, has been maintained, although
a declining long term trend has been evidenced by a recent study17, due to a combination of factors
beyond the project's reach.

Table 5 Component 4: Support to technical services ­ selected quantitative outputs

                                             2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007                2008 Total
New varieties tried                                                                              5
Number of cotton extension agents            229     495    555    554   563    Transfer
financed annually                                                               to gov
Number of cotton extension agents                    356    389    319   350    824       1176
trained annually
Number of seed cotton quality inspectors                                                         195
supported by the project

Technical support services to farmers and ginners

AIC has been able to organize effectively and satisfactorily the critical functions after SONAPRA's
withdrawal, at least until the Government decided to bring back extension and research under its
responsibility, in 2007. This is evidenced by the release of new cotton varieties, by the development
of IPM, by the increased adoption rate of extension messages, increasing satisfaction with the
provided services among stakeholders, and by the maintenance of the good quality reputation of
Benin's cotton. The satisfaction of farmers, ginners and input distributors on services provided
(which is the output indicator identified in the PAD) has substantially increased since the beginning
of the project, but remains below the target (80 percent) for ginners (60 percent) and input
distributors (50 percent) (Table 6).


Component 5: Support to the privatization of SONAPRA ginning operations

Under this component, support was to be provided to the Government of Benin to carry out a
transparent strategy to privatize the company's ginning plants, in particular through the funding of a
contract with a bank in charge of preparing and implementing the privatization process.

Privatization of SONAPRA

SONAPRA was privatized 4 months after the closure of the project. After failed privatization
processes in 2005 and 2007, the Government launched a new process in August 2008. The final
contract with the winning bidder was signed on October 10, 2008. This outcome can only partly be
attributed to the project, as, for instance, the privatization of SONAPRA was also an expected
outcome of the Bank financed PRSC 2 (2005) and a trigger of the Bank financed PRSC 5 (2008).




17 Gerald Estur, 2008


                                                                                                   21

Table 6 Key Performance indicators of Cotton Sector Reform Project

Indicators     2001/2 2002/3          2003/4 2004/5  2005/6 2006/7 2007/8       Target      Level of
                      (baseline)                                                            attainment
Share of                                                                        100%        reached
cotton
marketed                    N/A                       95%             100%
through the
new system
Delay of                                                                        <30 days     Not
payment to               < 30 days     <30   >30 days >30    >30    >30 days                reached
producers                              days           days  days

Recovery                                                                        99% first   Not
ratio of input              90%        98%     97%    100%  97%       95%       year        reached
credit
Satisfaction             NPK: 59%                                   NPK: 96% Full            Almost
rate on input            Urea: 51%                                  Urea: 97%   satisfaction reached
quality                 insecticides:                              insecticides:
(surveys)                   55%                                       90%
Satisfaction                                                        NPK: 96% Full            Almost
rate on input            NPK: 56%                                   Urea: 97%   satisfaction reached
quantities               Urea: 48%
                      insecticides:85%                             insecticides:
                                                                      98%
Satisfaction of                                                                 80%          Not
farmers on                                                                                  reached
leadership of
their
organizations            7% / 23%            30%/45%                50%/63%

(at village/
commune
levels)
Satisfaction of                                                                 80%          Reached
producers on
technical                   60%                83%                    88%

services
Satisfaction of                                                                 80%          Not
ginners on                                                                                  reached
technical                   40%                47%                    60%

services
Satisfaction of                                                                 80%          Not
input                                                                                       reached
suppliers on                N/A                N/A                    50%
technical
services
Source: Project M&E




                                                                                                    22

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                            23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                           Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending (members are inferred from Aide Memoirs)
Ousmane Badiane             Economist                         AFTR2
Yvette Abaglo               Procurement Specialist            AFMBJ

Hugues Agossou              Senior Financial Management
                            Specialist                        AFTFM

Nicolas Ahouissoussi        Senior Agriculture Economist      AFTAR
Hervé Assah                 Senior Private Sector Specialist  AFTPS
Rama Zime                   Disbursement Assistant            AFMBJ
Michel Ahohounkpanzon       Consultant
Desiré Coquillat            Consultant

Supervision/ICR
Hugues Agossou              Sr Financial Management Specia    AFTFM
Lydie Ahodehou A.           Program Assistant                 AFMBJ
Nicolas Ahouissoussi        Senior Agriculture Economist      AFTAR
Itchi Gnon Ayindo           Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh          Country Manager                   AFMBJ
Ilhem Baghdadli             Economist                         MNSSD
Bleoue Nicaise Ehoue        Senior Agriculture Economist      AFTAR
Ayi Adamah Klouvi           Agric. Economist                  AFTAR
Stephen D. Mink             Lead Economist                    AFTSN
F. Alain Onibon             Agric. Economist                  AFTAR
Daniel M. Sellen            Sector Leader                     AFTAR
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni          Social Development Spec.          AFTCS
Patrick Verissimo           Sr Sector Economist               AFTAR




                                                                                    24

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                               No. of staff weeks         USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                               66.68
  FY02                                                               88.97
  FY03                                                                0.00
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                0.00
  FY08                                                                0.00
                         Total:             0                       155.65
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                0.00
  FY02                                                               11.39
  FY03                                                               65.54
  FY04                                                               41.77
  FY05                                      36.1                     75.63
  FY06                                      29.5                     82.97
  FY07                                      18.5                     72.03
  FY08                                      19                      106.47
  FY09                                      4.3                      29.43
                         Total:           107.4                     485.23




                                                                                     25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                       26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

See summary in section 3.6.




                                                    27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

CONTRIBUTION A L'ELABORATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PARFC

I. Introduction

1.1- Contexte et justification

Depuis une vingtaine d'années, le coton est devenu le poumon de l'économie béninoise, assurant
bon an, mal an, plus de 75 % des exportations d'origine domestique. Directement ou indirectement,
elle génère plus de 40 % des emplois en milieu rural et fait vivre près de 50 % de la population
(INSAE, 2005)

De ce fait, la filière coton a toujours fait l'objet d'une grande sollicitude de la part de l'Etat
béninois. C'est dans ce sens qu'à différentes étapes de son évolution, ce secteur a connu des
réformes visant à soutenir ou à améliorer sa productivité et sa compétitivité.
Pour soutenir cette mutation afin qu'elle aboutisse aux résultats souhaités et répondre aux
préoccupations de l'ensemble des acteurs concernés, le Gouvernement a initié le Projet d'Appui à la
Réforme de la Filière Coton (PARFC) et obtenu le financement de la Banque Mondiale pour sa
mise en oeuvre.

1.2 Itinéraire de mise en OEuvre

           o Evaluation       : Juin 2001

           o Négociation : Septembre 2001
           o Signature de l'accord de financement : 15 Février 2002
           o Date d'entrée en vigueur : 22 Septembre 2002
           o Durée d'exécution initiale : 4 ans
           o Date d'achèvement prévue : Juin 2006
           o Prorogation après la revue à mi-parcours : 18 mois
           o Date de clôture : Juin 2008
           o Coût total du Projet : 16.940.000.000 F CFA et se répartit comme suit :
                        - IDA : 18 millions de $ US soit 12.600.000.000 F CFA

                        - AIC : 5,9 millions de $ US soit 4.130.000.000 F CFA

                        - ETAT : 0,3 millions de $ US soit 210.000.000 F CFA

1.3 Rappel des objectifs du projet

Objectif Sectoriel

L'objectif relié à la Stratégie d'Assistance Pays (SAP) est d'augmenter la contribution du coton à la
réduction de la pauvreté. Cette contribution devrait à terme, se traduire par :
    · L'accroissement de 10 % de la contribution du coton au PIB du secteur primaire en 2007 ;
    · L'accroissement de 5 % du revenu des producteurs coton d'ici à l'an 2007 ;
    · L'augmentation de 10 % et de 20 % des revenus redistribués aux paysans cotonniers,
       respectivement durant la 2ème année et la 4ème année du projet, comparée aux données de
       référence.




                                                                                                 28

Objectifs de développement du Projet

L'objectif de développement du projet est de réussir la transition du système régissant le secteur
cotonnier, caractérisé par une situation de monopole avec l'administration centrale de l'ensemble de
ses activités, vers un système ouvert à la concurrence, avec pour résultat un secteur plus efficace et
plus productif. Le projet devra renforcer la compétitivité des exportations béninoises sur les
marchés d'exportation, en vue d'augmenter leurs parts de marché et de bénéficier de l'expansion
probable de la demande mondiale pour le coton. L'accroissement de productivité et de compétitivité
devrait déboucher sur une augmentation des revenus dans le secteur, tandis que plus de transparence
et d'efficacité devraient améliorer la distribution des revenus au sein du secteur, avec des effets
secondaires positifs sur d'autres secteurs productifs dans le monde rural et dans le reste du pays

II- Mise en oeuvre du projet :

2.1 Niveau de réalisation Physique

Les éléments d'appréciation du niveau d'atteinte des objectifs visés peuvent être regroupés dans les
grands domaines ci-après :
        Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles et techniques des acteurs de la filière
Au terme de l'exécution des activités de ce domaine, les différentes institutions de la réforme
fonctionnent aujourd'hui très bien malgré certaines difficultés qui finissent par connaître des
solutions. Les activités critiques à savoir la fourniture de semence et des intrants coton sont
relativement bien maîtrisées, les différents contrats et accords interprofessionnels sont
effectivement négociés et gérés au sein de l'Interprofession.
Les procédures de gestion établies ont permis aux différentes structures décentralisées de se doter
d'outils de gestion efficaces (manuel de procédures comptables et financières, documents
comptables et audits comptables et financiers)

        La maîtrise des flux physiques et financiers
La proportion de coton graine réceptionnée au niveau des usines par rapport aux quantités achetées
était inférieure à 100 %. Cet écart était dû aux comportements déviants (dépôts de décades fictives,
manipulation frauduleuse du poids de coton graine par certains secrétaires de GVPC, Gérants et
Agents de conditionnement) de certaines organisations des producteurs. Pour contrer ces
comportements, la CSPR-GIE a dû changer de système de paiement à partir de la campagne 2006-
2007.

Il est quand même très important de constater qu'au cours des trois dernières campagnes (2005 à
2007), la commercialisation de toute la quantité de coton produite se fait à travers le mécanisme de
la CSPR-GIE ; ce qui est une avancée considérable par rapport aux 69 % de l'année de référence
(2004). Cette avancée traduit un bon fonctionnement des institutions techniques mises en place par
la réforme.

Les flux financiers sont également maîtrisés car le taux de récupération des crédits affiche 98 %
contre un taux de 90 % en 2004 pour un taux attendu de 100 %.
Le nouveau mode de paiement est basé sur les poids réceptionnés à l'usine et non sur les achats
décadaires déclarés, ce qui agit inévitablement au niveau de la rapidité de paiement des décades aux
producteurs.

Cependant, si sur les trois dernières campagnes, ce paiement a été fait dans un délai de moins de
30 jours pour 20,3 % seulement des producteurs cela est dû :
    · au retard de paiement des factures de livraisons par certaines sociétés d'égrenage ;
    · aux impayés de crédits intrants du côté des groupements de producteurs ;
    · aux dépôts des décades fictives par certains réseaux de producteurs ;

                                                                                                   29

· à la surconsommation d'intrants.
  Amélioration des capacités organisationnelles, techniques et commerciales des organisations
  de producteurs
  · On enregistre une amélioration notable de la satisfaction des Groupements Villageois
      des Producteurs de Coton (GVPC) par rapport aux prestations offertes par leurs faîtières.
      Ce taux de satisfaction est passé de 7 % en 2004 à 40% en 2007. La tenue des AG
      statutaires a connu une nette amélioration.
 · Les GVPC ont considérablement amélioré leur système comptable opérationnel. Les
      taux enregistrés (45 % à 71% selon les documents de gestion) dépassent largement
      l'objectif de 25% visé pour chaque document de gestion.
 · Si le taux de satisfaction en ce qui concerne la quantité d'intrants livrés est de 97% en
      moyenne, dépassant l'objectif des 80% visés, le taux de satisfaction par rapport à la
      qualité des insecticides reste légèrement plus bas avec 90% selon l'appréciation des
      GVPC ;
 · Le taux de suivi des GVPC par les agents techniques des OP est de 66%. De moins en
      moins de conflits sont enregistrés au niveau des groupements.

 Par rapport aux autres acteurs (Importateurs et Distributeurs d'Intrants et Egreneurs) :
 · Leur taux de satisfaction en ce qui concerne les services rendus par les OP est de 60%
      contre 40% en 2004 et pour une prévision de 80%.
      Au vu de ces résultats, on peut conclure que des avancées considérables ont été
      enregistrées, cependant des efforts importants restent à faire au niveau des OP compte
      tenu des nouvelles contraintes apparues.
 · Mise en oeuvre des programmes des services techniques à l'échelon du secteur
      L'appui du PARFC au CRA-CF pour la mise en oeuvre des protocoles a permis d'obtenir
      des résultats notables. Au nombre de ceux-ci, on peut citer :
      - La nouvelle variété vulgarisée H279-1 qui a permis un gain de 1,4 point à l'égrenage
          et un gain de 5% de rendement de coton graine au champ ;
      - La méthode de lutte étagée ciblée (LEC) contre les ravageurs du coton vulgarisée
          grâce à laquelle, un gain moyen de rendement de 300 kg/ha a été obtenu et une
          économie sur le coût des produits phytosanitaires utilisés souvent supérieurs à 8 000
          F CFA par ha a été possible. Il s'agit d'une stratégie de lutte moins coûteuse que le
          traitement classique, respectueuse de l'environnement et plus rentable pour le
          producteur.
 Aussi, le projet a-t-il contribué à :
 · La création de deux (02) nouvelles variétés. Ce sont les variétés E.956-2 et I.875-3 ;
 · La mise au point de formules d'engrais selon les zones agro écologiques ;
 · La mise au point d'une technologie basée sur la gestion des tiges de cotonnier pour la
      fertilisation des sols ;
 · La mise en oeuvre d'un programme de gestion de la résistance d'Hélicoverpa armigera
      vis-à-vis des pyréthrinoïdes ;
 · L'équipement et le fonctionnement des laboratoires du CRA CF (Bohicon, Parakou) ;
 · La tenue régulière des réunions de la commission semences coton.

 L'appui du projet aux autres services techniques a permis de :
 · Améliorer la satisfaction des producteurs, qui est passée de 85% en ce qui concerne les
      thèmes de formation à 87% pour un objectif visé de 80% ;

 · Mettre en place un dispositif opérationnel d'encadrement des producteurs, jusqu'à la
      campagne 2006-2007 ;




                                                                                            30

       · Renforcer les capacités des nouveaux agents contractuels de l'état en poste dans la zone
           cotonnière ;

       · Améliorer le taux de coton graine classé premier choix qui est passé de 97,2% en 2004 à
           97,8% en 2007 pour un objectif visé de 100%.
       · Améliorer le taux d'application des itinéraires techniques, notamment les engrais (NPK :
           58,8%, Urée : 59,8% contre les valeurs initiales de NPK : 50,8%, Urée : 52,5% en
           2004);
       · Le taux de satisfaction des égreneurs s'est amélioré, passant de 47% en 2004 à 60% en
           2007 ;

       · Le taux moyen de rendement à l'égrenage est passé de 39,93% en 2004 à 42% en 2007 ;
       · L'objectif du taux de production de coton fibre classé en standard 0 (Kaba S + Kaba) ou
           standard 1 (Bella) n'est pas atteint. Il ressort des données d'enquête que les taux de Bella
           sont respectivement de 57,51% et 42,49% en 2007 contre respectivement 42,4% et
           58,6% pour les valeurs de référence (2004).
         Par ailleurs, des efforts restent à faire car :

     · le rendement de coton-graine au champ a diminué passant de 1366 kg/ha en 2004 à
         1150Kg/ha en moyenne sur la période 2005-2008 au plan national

 En tenant compte de ces résultats et des difficultés de financement rencontrées par les PSTS, on
 peut affirmer que l'efficience de ce domaine est moyenne. Cependant, étant donné que ce volet a
 conduit au raffermissement d'un partenariat public-privé dans la fourniture de services jugés
 jusque-là comme des prérogatives publiques, le résultat des PSTS peut-être jugé satisfaisant.

         Privatisation de l'outil industriel de la SONAPRA

La mise en oeuvre du projet a permis à l'AIC d'accompagner le processus de privatisation de l'outil
industriel de la SONAPRA à travers :
       · le recrutement d'une banque d'affaires ;
       · le renforcement des capacités de la COD ;
       · l'audit de la SONAPRA
       · l'évaluation du patrimoine de la SONAPRA ;

Cependant, plusieurs remises en cause à différentes étapes du processus, n'ont pas permis de la
conduire à son terme et d'atteindre les objectifs visés. Sa mise en oeuvre a néanmoins clairement
montré que la réussite de la privatisation de l'outil industriel de la SONAPRA dépasse le cadre du
PARFC. Le processus maintes fois repris, témoigne du fait que la cession partielle du secteur privé
de l'outil industriel de la SONAPRA ne saurait être la seule disposition qui assure un
fonctionnement optimal de la filière coton.

2.2 Niveau de réalisation financière

La mise en oeuvre du projet est effectuée à travers quatre (04) principales catégories de dépenses.
Les taux d'exécution budgétaire du projet par nature de dépense sur la base des allocations initiales
sont respectivement de :
    · 99 ,03 % pour la catégorie1 « Equipement, Véhicules et autres fournitures » avec une
        consommation budgétaire de 1 798 346554 FCFA ;
    · 94, 99 % pour la catégorie 2 « Services de Consultants, Formations et audit » dont le
        montant réalisé est équivalent à 9.916.448.546 FCFA;
    · 98,132 % en ce qui concerne les charges d'exploitation (catégorie 3) ayant consommé
        globalement 4.219.499.492 FCFA ;


                                                                                                   31

    · 73,02 % en ce qui concerne la catégorie 4 ¨Remboursement PPF¨ avec une consommation
         de 281.124.106 FCFA

Exécution financière par composante et sous-composante

L'examen des réalisations cumulées sur la période de mise en oeuvre du projet permet de retenir ce
qui suit :
    · Les réalisations financières de la composante « Appui à l'AIC » sont équivalentes à
        4 128.172.788 FCFA pour un taux d'exécution financière de 99,10 % ;
    · La composante « Appui à la CSPR » a consommé 1 777.571.968 FCFA pour un taux
        d'exécution financière de 98,68% ;
    · L'appui au CNPC a été exécuté pour 3 256.157.717 FCFA avec un taux de réalisation
        avoisinant 99,11% ;
    · Le volet PSTS a mobilisé sur la période 6 376 953 234 FCFA et le taux d'exécution
        financière est de 97,06 % ;
    · La privatisation de l'outil industriel de la SONAPfRA a mobilisé 607.558.712 FCFA pour
        un taux d'exécution financière de 54,90 %.

Ces différents niveaux de réalisation portent le taux d'exécution financière global du projet à
95,72 % équivalent à un montant de 16.16 215 418 698 FCFA au 31 juillet 2008.
L'analyse de l'exécution financière globale permet de relever qu'aucune composante n'a enregistré
de dépassement. Le niveau de consommation des allocations est satisfaisant (compris entre 97,12 et
99,68%) pour toutes les composantes sauf la composante « Appui à la privatisation de l'outil
industriel de la SONAPRA » qui n'a consommé que 54,90% des ressources financières allouées.

2.3 Indicateurs de performance et d'impact

2.3.1 Indicateurs de performance

Comme l'indique le tableau N° 2 en annexe, au total sept (07) indicateurs avaient été retenus pour
l'appréciation des performances dans l'accord de financement du projet.

Ces indicateurs ont été opérationnalisés et la situation de départ a été établie par l'enquête de
référence réalisée en 2004.

La revue à mi-parcours du projet qui s'est déroulée en 2006 a permis d'analyser et de confirmer ces
indicateurs et éclater quatre des sept (07) indicateurs en sous indicateurs afin d'être plus précis dans
la détermination des valeurs affichées. L'étude d'impact en fin de phase réalisée en mars-avril 2008
a permis de déterminer les valeurs actuelles de         ces indicateurs. Ainsi, quatre des sept (07)
indicateurs ont atteint au moins un taux de réalisation de 100% de l'objectif visé. Il s'agit
notamment :
           · du degré de satisfaction des producteurs, par rapport aux sociétés d'égrenage et aux
                distributeurs d'intrants (110 %) ;
           · de la capacité du secteur privé à satisfaire en terme de quantité la demande en
                intrants modernes (120 % à 123 % selon les types d'engrais mis en place) ;
           · de l'évolution de la fraction de revenus revenant aux producteurs (109%) ;
           · de la capacité de maintenir la part commercialisée de la production cotonnière à un
                niveau supérieur à celui qu'avait réalisée jusqu'ici la SONAPRA (100%).

Les trois autres indicateurs sont au moins supérieurs à 50%. Il s'agit notamment de:
           · l'augmentation des niveaux de rendement du coton graine (77%) ;
           · l'augmentation de l'ensemble des revenus dans le secteur (52%) ;


                                                                                                     32

            · degré de satisfaction des producteurs agricoles face au leadership exercé par les
                organisations de producteurs locales et leurs fédérations nationales (50% pour les
                GVPC et 63% pour les CCPC).

2.3.2 Impacts

L'impact majeur attendu du PARFC est la libéralisation du secteur coton afin d'en faire une filière
plus productive, plus créatrice de valeur ajoutée et plus compétitive. Cet objectif a été atteint,
cependant le secteur aurait été plus performant si l'outil industriel de la SONAPRA avait été
privatisé. Néanmoins, la mise en oeuvre du PARFC a eu des impacts notables dans le cheminement
vers l'atteinte de l'objectif de développement du projet. Parmi ces impacts, nous pouvons
mentionner :
        · Une stabilisation de la fonctionnalité des institutions privées et des dispositifs d'appuis
            techniques issus de la réforme dans le cadre réglementaire défini ;
        · Une meilleure professionnalisation de l'activité de production du coton graine et une
            amélioration des revenus des producteurs. En effet, après les dysfonctionnements
            constatés au plan de la stabilisation des institutions issues de la réforme de la filière, un
            nouveau cadre de représentation des acteurs au sein de l'Interprofession de la filière
            coton défini en 2006 a permis de mettre en place :

            - le Conseil National des Producteurs de Coton (CNPC) qui regroupe tous les réseaux
                de producteurs de coton ;

            - le Conseil National des Importateurs et Distributeurs d'Intrants Coton (CNIDIC) qui
                regroupe tous les importateurs et distributeurs d'intrants installés au Bénin ;

            - le Conseil National des Égreneurs de Coton (CNEC) qui regroupe toutes les Sociétés
                d'Égrenage de Coton (SEC) exerçant au Bénin ;

La mise en oeuvre du PARFC a également permis aux acteurs de s'engager dans un processus
d'apprentissage et de professionnalisation à travers :

    · la maîtrise croissante par l'AIC du partenariat public-privé dans la fourniture des services
        agricoles aux membres de l'interprofession ;

    · la maîtrise du mécanisme de commercialisation primaire et du convoyage du coton graine
        par les organisations de producteurs ;

    · le renforcement des capacités de négociation et de leadership des organisations de
        producteurs membres de l'Interprofession.

Au plan de la professionnalisation de l'activité de production du coton graine et de l'amélioration
des revenus des producteurs dans le domaine de la réduction de la pauvreté, les impacts suivants
étaient attendus du projet :
            - L'accroissement de 10% de la contribution du coton au PIB du secteur primaire à la
                fin du projet : cet objectif n'a pas été atteint pour plusieurs raisons dont notamment
                la stagnation de la production autour de 300.000 tonnes ;
            - L'accroissement de 5% du revenu des producteurs coton en moyenne par an à la fin
                du projet ;
            - L'augmentation de 10 % et 20% des revenus redistribués aux paysans cotonniers,
                respectivement à mi-parcours et en fin de phase du projet comparées aux données de
                référence ;

Du point de vue de l'impact sur les revenus, malgré les changements défavorables évoqués au point
précédent, le revenu moyen par producteur de coton (approché par la marge sur intrants) a connu
une augmentation de 23 % environ au cours de la période de mise en oeuvre du projet. Ce paradoxe
peut s'expliquer dans une certaine mesure par la tendance à la professionnalisation de la production


                                                                                                      33

de coton. Le surplus généré sur intrants est passé de 109 961 FCFA en 2003-2004 à 143 085 FCFA
au cours de la campagne 2007-2008, soit une augmentation de 23,15%. A cela, il faut ajouter les
gains de productivité réalisés grâce à l'utilisation des engrais supportés par le coton pour 100.000 ha
de cultures vivrières par an en moyenne.

Par rapport aux autres impacts sociaux du projet, les ristournes issues de la production cotonnière
permettent de financer le développement local soit à travers les GVPC, soit à travers les
prélèvements opérés par certaines communes. Si le PARFC n'a pas permis d'augmenter les
ristournes sur sa période de mise en oeuvre, sa contribution à leur meilleure gestion a accru leur
impact.

En matière d'impacts environnementaux, le PARFC a promu la prise en compte de l'environnement
dans les activités de production de coton graine ou de coton fibre à travers les deux actions ci-
après :
    · Un début de mise en oeuvre d'un plan de gestion environnementale des usines pour atténuer
       les effets nuisibles des usines d'égrenage sur l'environnement ;
    · la mise au point et la diffusion de technologies améliorées de production de coton durable et
       respectueuse de l'environnement (programmes de traitements phytosanitaires tels que la
       Lutte Etagée Ciblée).

III. Acquis du Projet

         Les acteurs interprofessionnels ont appris par la pratique un savoir-faire incontestable
         (Définition du cadre général, élaboration des cahiers des charges, gestion des appels
         d'offres pour la sélection des importateurs et distributeurs d'intrants, mise en place et
         récupération des crédits intrants, répartition de la production de coton graine entre les
         usines d'égrenage dans un contexte d'excès de capacité installée et en tenant compte de la
         dispersion géographique des usines, etc.), ce qui a facilité la mise en oeuvre du processus
         de libéralisation complète de la filière coton et sa stabilité.

         Tous les flux physiques et financiers concernant la filière empruntent désormais le
         mécanisme de la CSPR-GIE.

         La surconsommation des intrants est de plus en plus réduite.

         Les organisations paysannes ont acquis un savoir-faire et un leadership qui s'améliorent au
         fil des années. Tous les réseaux de producteurs sont désormais dans une structure
         pyramidale unique ayant à sa tête le CNPC dont l'autorité est reconnue par toute la famille
         des producteurs de coton et toutes les autres familles professionnelles. Les Organisations
         des Producteurs de Coton          ont désormais une maîtrise parfaite du processus et des
         techniques de commercialisation du coton graine ;

         Le partenariat public-privé dans le cadre des services techniques sectoriels (recherche,
         conseils agricoles, classements de coton graine et de coton fibre, contrôle de la
         qualité/certification des intrants, etc.) permet d'obtenir des résultats assez satisfaisants ;

         L'option pour la production d'un coton durable et moins coûteux à travers la gestion
         intégrée de la fertilité des sols et des ravageurs est prise ;

         Les statistiques agricoles cotonnières sont régulièrement mises à jour et tous les acteurs ont
         pris conscience de leur utilité et des défis de leur estimation (rendement agricole,
         superficie dans un contexte sans cadastre, prévision des besoins en intrants, etc.) ;

         La capacité de la Cellule des Opérations de Dénationalisation (COD) est renforcée pour
         poursuivre le processus de privatisation. En effet l'option de privatiser l'outil industriel de
         la SONAPRA est toujours maintenue par le Gouvernement.



                                                                                                       34

IV Contraintes majeures

Malgré ces acquis indéniables, certaines contraintes restent encore à lever dans la filière. Il s'agit
de :
         L'inexistence d'une loi-cadre sur la filière;
         Le retard à mettre en place un nouvel Accord Cadre entre le Gouvernement et
         l'interprofession après la dénonciation de celui homologué en 2005 ;
         Les relations faibles entre les services techniques et les producteurs à la base.
         Le faible niveau de mise en oeuvre des systèmes de management environnemental ;
         La baisse de la fertilité des sols dans les zones de production cotonnière ;
         La mauvaise gestion de la caution solidaire avec pour conséquences, la non maîtrise du
         coût des intrants à l'hectare, le surendettement des producteurs, entraînant le paiement
         tardif voire le non paiement de certains bons producteurs de coton ;
         Le contexte actuel de chute des cours mondiaux de la fibre et des prix élevés des intrants ;
         les effets néfastes et imprévisibles des changements climatiques sur le calendrier agricole ;
         le faible niveau de scolarisation ou d'alphabétisation des secrétaires des GVPC;

V. Perspectives à court et à moyen termes

       Malgré les nombreux acquis, bon nombre de contraintes qui persistent, si elles ne sont pas
levées, peuvent remettre en cause les impacts positifs obtenus. La nécessité s'impose de poursuivre
la consolidation des acquis et de lever ces contraintes afin d'asseoir les bases durables du
développement de la filière coton dans une démarche de diversification agricole.
Pour lever ces contraintes et utiliser de manière durable les énormes potentialités naturelles dont
dispose encore notre pays, dans un contexte de diversification agricole et de réduction de la
pauvreté, l'État et l'Interprofession doivent :
         Poursuivre le renforcement institutionnel de l'Interprofession et des différentes familles
         professionnelles, en particulier celle des Organisations des Producteurs de Coton ;
         Mettre en place un mécanisme plus efficace de fixation des prix à travers l'exploitation des
         résultats de l'étude sur les coûts normés et les recommandations de l'étude Horus sur le
         mécanisme de fixation des prix de coton graine. A très court terme, les acteurs pourraient
         avoir recours à un système d'arbitrage automatique en cas de blocage des négociations sur
         les prix ;
         Poursuivre le renforcement des capacités des secrétaires des GVPC, en attendant le
         recrutement de commis;
         Contribuer à la promotion de l'alphabétisation fonctionnelle des cotonculteurs par un
         renforcement de la collaboration avec l'Institut         National pour l'Alphabétisation et
         l'Education des Adultes (INAEA).
         Mettre en place un mécanisme glissant et durable de financement des fonctions critiques.
         Ce mécanisme devra prendre en compte les éléments d'analyse technico-économiques
         pour la production et la distribution des semences, les prestations des OP, la contribution
         efficace des services techniques sectoriels à l'amélioration de la productivité et de la
         compétitivité de la filière. Les contributions de l'Etat et de l'Interprofession doivent être
         clairement définies pour une meilleure coordination des interventions au sein de la filière ;
         Mettre en place un programme spécial et ambitieux de la diffusion de la technologie LEC.
         Poursuivre la mise en oeuvre du programme de management environnemental au niveau
         des usines ;
         Faire organiser par le CRA-CF un forum scientifique sur le contenu et le financement d'un
         nouveau cycle de recherche prenant en compte les préoccupations réelles des acteurs et


                                                                                                   35

         avec l'obligation pour les chercheurs de rendre compte aux acteurs des résultats d'étapes
         par rapport à la mise en oeuvre des protocoles. Cela pourrait déboucher sur la création
         d'une plate-forme fonctionnelle entre la recherche cotonnière et la vulgarisation ;
         Doter la recherche des moyens nécessaires pour démarrer les essais et les tests sur le coton
         génétiquement modifié. Le premier moratoire de 5 ans étant arrivé à terme, un second
         moratoire a été décrété, mais cette fois-ci avec une ouverture à la recherche scientifique sur
         les Organismes Génétiquement Modifiés (OGM) ; la recherche doit être mise en capacité
         de saisir cette opportunité ;
         Faire actualiser et adopter les documents de référence en matière de normes et qualité du
         coton graine ;
         Mettre en oeuvre les résultats de l'étude de faisabilité sur la fonction semence dans la
         filière coton. A court terme, ils devraient mettre en oeuvre l'approche contractualisation de
         la production de semences ;
         Appuyer le renforcement des capacités du service classement de la fibre à travers la
         formation des techniciens et l'acquisition d'équipements modernes telle que la nouvelle
         chaîne HIV et renforcer les capacités du personnel utilisateur.
         Equiper la DPQC en matériels d'inspection et de contrôle du coton graine ;
          Equiper le laboratoire de contrôle de qualité des intrants de la DAGRI ;
         Poursuivre les actions actuelles en vue de la maîtrise du système de la caution solidaire à
         travers l'opérationnalisation des comités de crédits intrants mis en place ;
         Commanditer une étude sur les transferts de revenus entre régions et l'ampleur du
         phénomène de maintien de zones de production de coton graine, non compétitives ;
         Définir un mécanisme de financement des pistes rurales cotonnières en étroite
         collaboration avec les Ministères Sectoriels, les Mairies et les Préfectures des zones
         cotonnières avec l'appui des comités départementaux d'aménagement des pistes rurales;
         Mettre en place un Observatoire des Exploitations Cotonnières (OEC) afin d'affermir le
         cadre statistique existant qui doit être capable de fournir des prévisions plus précises, plus
         fiables et des taux d'adoption plus fiables ;
         consolider les acquis en matière de suivi-évaluation au sein de l'interprofession en
         poursuivant le renforcement des capacités des points focaux S&E et la tenue régulièrement
         du cadre de concertation technique des acteurs sur le suivi opérationnel de la campagne
         cotonnière.

VI. Conclusion

Au vu de ces éléments d'appréciation, nous pouvons affirmer que la mise en oeuvre du PARFC a
contribué au renforcement des capacités techniques et organisationnelles des institutions de la
réforme, des différentes familles professionnelles notamment celle des producteurs, le financement
des fonctions critiques, l'amélioration des revenus des producteurs et la réduction de la pauvreté.
Cependant, il s'avère nécessaire de consolider ces acquis et lever les contraintes majeures à travers
l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre d'un projet d'appui au développement de la filière coton avec un
accent particulier sur le soutien au secteur privé dans la mise en oeuvre des nouvelles réformes.
Dans le contexte actuel d'émergence d'une filière privée intégrée, les défis majeurs à court terme
sont de quatre ordres :
         Une production de 600.000 tonnes de coton par an pour assurer le rendement optimal des
         usines d'égrenage et fournir suffisamment de matières premières aux huileries et aux
         filatures locales ;
         Une augmentation du rendement à l'hectare pour la production de coton-graine ;
         Une amélioration du rendement à l'égrenage et le développement du label coton béninois ;
         Enfin, pour parvenir à une augmentation durable de la production de manière à satisfaire
         d'ici 2013, les capacités des usines déjà installées, la nécessité s'impose de mettre en place
         un dispositif opérationnel de conseil agricole et de suivi en vue d'une intensification de la
         production cotonnière, tout en préservant les ressources naturelles.


                                                                                                     36

Les priorités qui en découlent, devront permettre aux acteurs privés de jouer pleinement leurs rôles
en vue d'une amélioration durable de la productivité et de la compétitivité, dans le contexte actuel
de la mondialisation et de la baisse tendancielle des cours de la fibre.
Il s'agit notamment de :
    · Renforcement des capacités techniques et organisationnelles des familles professionnelles et
        institutions de la filière ;
    · La gouvernance et le leadership ;
    · L'accès aux marchés/approvisionnement en intrants de qualité à temps et à moindre coût ;
    · La mise au point et la diffusion des innovations technologiques adaptées ;
    · La promotion du label coton béninois.

Le Plan Stratégique de Relance du Secteur Agricole prévoit la mise en oeuvre d'une nouvelle
stratégie de réforme de la filière coton. La nouvelle approche envisagée se basera sur la concertation
permanente avec et entre tous les acteurs (producteurs, égreneurs, distributeurs d'intrants, etc),
selon une démarche globale qui permettra :
    · d'améliorer durablement le niveau des revenus des producteurs,
    · d'instaurer une logique de partage des risques ou des profits de la filière qui s'impose aux
        importateurs et distributeurs d'intrants,
    · d'oeuvrer pour une diversification des acteurs comme facteur de réduction des risques,
    · d'exploiter à plein rendement l'outil industriel,
    · d'élargir la prise en charge des fonctions régaliennes de la filière (entretien des pistes,
        recherche, production de semences améliorées, encadrement des producteurs, etc.) grâce à
        un mécanisme permettant de capter la contribution des autres privés de la filière.

    La mise en oeuvre de ces nouvelles orientations se fera à travers :

    · la mise en place d'un cadre institutionnel, réglementaire et organisationnel cohérent et
        fonctionnel,
    · l'institution d'une Autorité de régulation qui veillera au fonctionnement efficace de la filière
        et à l'observation par tous les acteurs des règles de gouvernance,
    · la définition d'un accord cadre de partenariat public privé national et étranger,
    · la création d'une société d'économie mixte avec une gestion de type privé de l'outil
        industriel de la SONAPRA,
    · la création, avec les importateurs et distributeurs d'intrants, d'une centrale d'achat d'intrants
        agricoles, sous gestion de type privé,
    · la mise en place d'un fonds de stabilisation ainsi qu'un fonds de développement de la filière
        coton,
    · la diversification de l'industrie cotonnière afin d'en accroître la valeur ajoutée.




                                                                                                    37

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                                                     38

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


· Project appraisal document
· Aide Memoires
· Credit agreement
· Implementation status reports
· Project annual implementation reports
· Audit technique du PARFC (AIC; Oct, 2005)
· Rapport bilan sur l'exécution du PARFC (AIC; May, 2008)
· Note sur les indicateurs du PARFC (AIC; May, 2008)
· Rapport de mise en place du suivi-évaluation (AIC; Oct, 2004)Comparative Study on
  Cotton Sector Reforms in SSA (World Bank, 2008)




                                                                                 39

