Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL ISE ONLY
Z,Al  32-7(,=-c .=<
Repot No. 8792-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
NOVEMBER 13, 1990
Agricultural Operations Division IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztafon.



CURREC   2l' - SQR  iS/.I
(as of June 20, 1990)
US$1.00 - S/. 805.50
SI. 1.00 - US$.00124
Ela   M
January 1 - December 31
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
ASA        Lgricultural Service Agency
(Agencia de Servicios Agropecuarios)
BNF        National Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Fomento)
CEDEGE     Commission for the Development of the Guayas River Basin
(Comision de Estudioa para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio
Guayas)
CONADE     National Development Conmission
(comision Nacional de Desarrollo)
DZNAMA     National Office of Environmental Affairs
(Direccion Nacional def Medio Ambiente)
DINAC      National Office of Land Assessment
(Direccion Nacional de Avaluo y Catastro)
D1NAF      National Office of Borestry
(Direccion Nacional de Asuntos Forestales)
DTDR       Technical Directorate for Rural Development
(Direccion Tecnica de Desarrollo Rural)
ZIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ENAC       State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
(Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento y Comercializacion de
Productos Agropecuarios)
GOE        Government of Ecuador
GON        Government of the Netherlands
HASKONING  Royal Dutch Consulting Engineers and Architects
iCe        International Competitive Bidding
ZDA        International Development Association
IDS        Inter-American Development Bank
ZERAC      Ecuadorian Institute for Land Reform and Settlement
(Instituto Ecuatoriano de la Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion)
IICA       Inter-American Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture
(Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion para la Agricultura)
INOCA      National Institute for Peasant Training
(Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Campesina)
INERSI     Ecuadorian Institute for Water Resources
(Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Ridraulitos)
INIAP      National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias)
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
hAG        Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganader a)
NBS        Ministry for Social Welfare
(M.inisterio de Bienestar Social)
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOP        Ministry for Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras Publicas)
NGO        Non-Governmental organization
OaR        Operation and Maintenance
PDA        Agricultural Development Plan
(Plan de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
PSIDC      Project Supported Institutional Development Component
PROTSCA    National Program for Agricultural Technology Transfer
(Programa de Desarrollo Tecnologico Agropecuario)
TOR        Terms of Reference
UCB        Project Executing Unit
(Unidad Cuenca Baial



ECUADOR                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LONER 9UAAS FPLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
STnFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Paoce No.
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUARY  . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
Agriculture in the National Economy   . . . .        4
Major Public Institutions in the Sector   .          S
Previous Bank Lending in the
Agricultural Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .        5
Dank Lending Strategy for the Sector  . . . .        6
The Lower Guayas River Basin  . . . . . . . .        7
III. THE PROJECT   .                      . . . . . .          9
A. GENERAL   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
Project Origin and Rationale for Dank
Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
Project Objectives and Beneficiaries  . . .        10
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION   . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
Infrastructural Features  . . . . . . . . .        10
Agricultural Development  . . . . . . . .          11
Environmental Component   . . . . . . . . .        13
Master Plan for the Lower Guayas Basin  . .        14
Institutional Development   . . . . . . .          14
C.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Project Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    15
operation and Maintenance (O&M)  . . . . .         16
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)   . . . . .        17
Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . .          17
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . .        18
Cost    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  is
Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
Special Account   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          19
E. PROJECT BENEFITS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
Flood Protection  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
Drainage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
Agricultural Development  . . . . . . . .          24
Socioeconomic Impact  . . . . . . . . . .          24
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . .        24
Economic Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
Project Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        25
IV. SUMMARY OF AGRZEDENTS AND RECOIAEDASION    . . . .        26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Ecuador in March 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. P. Wittenberg (Mission
Leader), M. Hagerstrom (Economist), C. Plaza (Environmental Officer), A.
Tobelem (Institutional Specialist), J. Carvalho (Lawyer), and M. Carroll
(Agronomist Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES:
Annex 1 - Infrastructure Works   . . . . .    . . . .         28
Annex 2 - Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . .          30
Annex 3 - Agricultural Development Pl..   . . . . . . .       32
Annex 4 - Institutional Development Component  . . . .        49
Annex  5 - Environmental Component  . . . . . . . . . .       55
Annex 6 - Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . .        62
Annex  7 - Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements   .       63
Annex 8 - Project Cost Summary Analysis  . . . . . . .        64
Annex 9 - Financial and Economic Analysis  . . . . . .        68
Annex 10 - Selected Documents Available in the Project
File   ....  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .   .  83
MAPs IBRD No. 22256



STAFF APRAISAL REPORT
LOW=R GUAAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJEC1P
T. I OAN AnD PROJECT SUNNA8Y
Borrowe-rs        The Republic of Ecuador
axocutina
agn:t             The Commission for the Development of the Guayas River Basin
(CEDEGE)
Lo-as Aouats i    US$S9.0 million equivalent
Repayable in 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including S years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
ft9j,nt
Obiectivest       The project would aim to: (a) reduce the risk of rural and
urban flooding and resultant losses to life, property and
output in the Lower Guayas Basin; (b) improve health and
living conditions in the area; (c) support agricultural and
livestock development; and (d) protect and conserve the
natural environment in the Lower Basin and parts of the
upper catchment area.
Proif
Dnscriptiona      The project was conceived as the first phase of a broader
plan for development of water, soil and human resources in
the Lower Guayas Basin. It would provide flood control and
drair.age for a priority area of about 170,000 ha. Principal
investments would consist of dikes, bypass (flood-relief)
channels, main and secondary drainage systems (new
construction and rehabilitation), rural roads, bridges and
various control and conveyance structures. To ensure
long-term sustainability, the project would include an
Agricultural Development Plan (PDA) aimed at supporting and
improving smallholder (<10 ha) production systems. The PDA
would be coordinated by cEDEGE and would includes (a)
adaptive research programs in rice, cacao, and small-scale
mechanization; (b) seed production; (c) extension; and (d)
strengthening smallholder farmer organizations. The PDA,
combined with the added security afforded by flood
protection, would result in substantial on-farm investment,
which would be financed by farmars using their own resources
or resources from the credit system.
The project would provide for environmental protection and
conservation within the project area and in its close
vicinity, both in the lower zone (the El Churute Nature
Reserve and the Guayas Estuary) and in the surrounding upper
catchment areas. The main objectives would be to: (a)
prepare a comprehensive environmental management plan; (b)
monitor environmental impacts; (c) develop integrated pest
management practices; (d) prepare studies on selected
priority subjects (such as mangrove management,
reforestation, etc.); and (e) strengthen the institutional
capacity of CEDEGE and other agencies that would be involved
in the environmental component. The project would include



an institutional strengthening component (technical
assistance, training and provision of vehicles and
equipment) for CEDEGE and for agencies participating in
agricultural development and environmental initiatives.
A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) process would enable early
identification of implementation problems and appropriate
actions to solve them. A mid-term review would analyze the
impact of flood control works, the delivery of the
agricultural support services, the effectiveness of the
environrental measures taken, and the results of the Master
Plan and the Environmental Studies, and would recommend
necessary measures to be taken to reach project targets,
including reallocation of funds, institutional changes,
additional studies and pcsoible follow-up projects. The
project would also finance a Master Plan for the entire
Lower Guayas Basin and for selected upper catchment areas
that would delineate a sound development strategy for the
area's n&tural and human resources.
Beneflg iajAgst   The flood control system would directly benefit the 188,800
urban and rural inhabitants of the 170,000 ha project area.
In any given year an estimated 36,400 people in this area
are directly affected by flood waters. ln addition, some
2,400 farmers would benefit from improved drainage and some
3,300 small farmers would benefit directly from the
agricultural development component.
Proiect Risks:    (a) A change in government investment priorities could cause
inadequate counterpart funding. The present government has
given high priority to socially-oriented projects in the
sector, and its proposed contribution (US$20.0 million)
still represents a strong commitment. (b) Environmental
agencies and NGOs may withdraw commitment to the project if
environmental monitoring and corrective actions fail to
match hIA goals. The project's design, organization and
financing have been geared to fulfill ZIA expectations, and
EGOs would be actively involved in reviewing the
implementation of VIA recommendations. (c) CEDEGE lacks
experience in multiagency coordination and agricultural
development. Substantial technical assistance and training
would be financed by the project. (d) Benefits could be
reduced by institutional weakness and inadequate commitment
of support agencies. Considerable resources are proposed in
the project to strengthen all entities involved. Commitment
would be strengthened through subsidiary agreements between
CEDEGE and each participating agency. (e) Deterioration of
the macroeconomic environment may undermine incentives for
agricultural production.  The GOESs improved economic
management and its recent agreement with the IMF mitigate
this risk.



Bstimated Costs:                   Local           9EkOW          Total
------  (USS Million)--- …
Flood Control                      17.7            22.4            40.1
Drainage                            3.2             8.6             11.8
Agricultural Development            8.7             7.6             16.3
Environment                         0.8             2.8              3.6
Master Plan                         0.4             1.8              2.2
Management and Training             1.1             a a3.
Total Baseline Cost                31.9            45.5             77.4
Physical Cont.ngencies              3.4             4.6              8.0
Price Contingencies                 5.1             7-0            11
Total Project Cost                 40.4            57.1             97.5
Financinu Plan:
Government of Ecuador              18.2 a/          1.8             20.0
Project Beneficiaries               6.8             4.7             11.5
Government of the Netherlands       1.6             5.4              7.0
IBRD                               13.8            AILA            5.96
Total Financing                    40.4            57.1             97.5
Estimated                              IBRD Fiscal Year
Disbursements:   1991    1992  1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998  1999
-----------------------(USS Million)…------       ---------…
Annual           2.0 b/  2.7    4.0   11.5    16.1   10.7    6.8   4.2   1.0
Cumulative       2.0      4.7    8.7   20.2    36.3   47.0   53.8  58.0  59.0
Economic Rate of Return,   15%
Mag: IBRD No. 22256
&l Includes US$6.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.
k/ Initial deposit in the Special Account of US$2.0 million.



-4-
IS. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Aariculture in the National Economy
2.01        The agricultural sector is an important contributor to Ecuador's
economy, accounting for about 14% of GDP and about 52% of the country's
foreign exchange.  Agricultural produc  ,n in Ecuador takes place in two quite
different ecological regions: the highiands and the coast. The highlands are
characterized by small-scale traditioncL f&rmers who produce food crops
(principally potatoes, vegetables, temperate fruit and wheat) oriented towards
the domestic marxet. Small-, medium- and large-scale commercial farms are
located in the coastal plains, which accounts for 80% of the area planted and
where the main agricultural products are bananas, cacao, sugarcane, rice,
livestock, and shrimp.
2.02        Because agricultural production is labor-intensive, agriculture's
importance to national employment, especially for the poor, is substantial.
Despite high rural-to-urban migration, the agricultural sector still employs
about half of Ecuador's economically active population. If agroindustries are
included, employment provided directly and indirectly by agriculture increases
to over 60% of the active work force. With rural incomes substantiall- below
urban levels and underemployment in rural areas about 50% of the availai-
labor, agricultural growth and improved productivity are essential to expand
employment and enhance the incomes of Ecuador's poor.
2.03        Despite its importance to the economy and rural welfare, there is
much scope to improve sectoral performance. Although Ecuador has favorable
conditions for growing most crops, agricultural land remains underexploited:
only about 44% of land suitable for cropping and a.bout 62% of its pasture land
are fully utilized. In addition, except for bananas and palm oil, average
yields have not increased for major crops, remaining at levels well below
those obtained by advatnced farmers using improved technology and having access
to adequate extension and credit.
2.04        Considerable scope also exists to boost agricultural exports. The
comparative advantage of Ecuador's traditional export commodities--bananas,
coffee, and cacao--remains strong (representing about 96% of the total value
of agricultural exports in 1986/87), and shrimp production has the fastest
growth in agriculture (17% p.a. in value terms between 1981-86). Ecuador also
has good conditions for the production of rice, fresh fruit, vegetables and
flowers. A sound economy and policies that encourage agricultural investment
could stimulate production and lead eventually to sustained export of these
nontraditional export crops.
2.05        The sector suffered during the oil boom when an overvalued
exchange rate, combined with restrictions on agricultural trade and subsidies
to domestic food consumers, hampered the growth of botb agricultural exports
and the production of domestic food crops. Major floot.ing of the coastal
region in 1983 contributed further to the decline in agricultural output.
Agricultural growth resumed in 1984, particularly in high-value exportables,
as a result of sucre devaluations begun in 1982. Nevertheless, many
disincentives still remain in trade and domestic food policy, which are
importa:t subjects in the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government on
sectoral policy.
2.06        The Government (which took office in August 1988) has initiated a
number of structural reforms and economic policy adjustments. These measures,
which encouraqe agricultural sector growth, now include a more competitive
exchange rate, partial reduction of export restrictions and a reduction in
domestic price controls for agricultural products. Financial sector reforms
include a phased reduction of subsidies on official interest rates. In a
recent Letter of Development Policy, GOE requested the support of the Bank to



finance a medium-term program of structural reforms needed to maintain the
desired process of economic growth, within a setting of overall stability.
Major Public institutions in the Sector
2.07        The Miniutry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), the Ministry for
Social Welfare (MBS), through its Rural Development Under-Secretary, and the
National Development Commission (CONADE) are the main policy-making agencies
overseeing agricultural develooment in Ecuador. A number ol' semi-autonomous
agencies are responsible for planning and implementing water-related
development programs. The Ecuadorian Institute for Water Resources (INERHI),
which is linked to the MAG, is responsible for overall water management, and
is in charge of planning and operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation and
drainage systems. Regional development corporations have been involved
increasingly in water resources development by planning, implementing, and
managing a wide array cf irrigation, drainage and flood control schemes. A
prominent regional institution in this regard is the Commission for the
Development of the Guayas River Basin (CEDEGE).
Previous Bank Lendino in the Auricultural 8ector
2.08        Bank and IDA lending to Ecuador was originally concentrated in the
transport and power sectors. A first livestock development loan approved in
1967 marked the beginning of diversification in the Bank Group's lending
program away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank has made 13 loans and
credits, totalling US$244.1 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural
and rural development. These includes (a) a loan and two credits for
livestock development for US$15.6 million; (b) a loan for fisheries (US$3.8
million); (c) a credit for the Milagro Irrigation Project (located within the
Lower Guayas area) for US$4.4 million; (d) a loan for seeds improvement for
US$3.0 million; (e) a loan for technical assistance (US$2.8 million); (f) a
first agricultural credit project loan for US$15.5 million; (g) loans for
three rural development projects, totalling US$51.0 million; (h) an
agricultural sector loan of US$1000. million; and (i) a second agricultural
credit loan of US$48.0 million.
2.09        Comleted Prolects.  The Milagro Irrigation Project (Cr. 425-EC)
was the first Bank irrigation project in Ecuador and was considered at
appraisal in 1973 to be part of a comprehensive development plan for the
Guayas River Basin. It is located on the northern boundary of the proposed
project. Its key objective was to develop an area of about 7,000 ha under
irrigation, benefitting some 825 families. The project failed to achieve its
objectives because:
(a) a wrong conceptual approach was used wherein irrigation water was
seen as the single important input, esaentially to the exclusion of
agricultural development services;
(b) measures to rectify the institutional weaknesses of participating
agencies were ineffective because: (i) these were not clearly
spelled out at appraisal; (ii) institutional strengthening was not
a project objective; and (iii) there was no reliable N&E of
implementation progress, and hence no awareness of the need to
improve institutional coordination; and
(c) it was incorrectly assumed that a well-established, low-input,
rainfed farming system could be changed into one based on
high-input, irrigated cropping in an area of diverse small farm



- 6 -
holdings not easily converted to an extensive gravity irrigation
network. 11
These lessons have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
2.10       The Tungurahua Project (Ln. 1644-SC) closed on December 31, 1987,
with significant progress made during the last year of implementation,
following several difficult years caused by the complexity of project design,
inadequate institutional capacity, and lack of counterpart funds. The
Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2626-EC), effective in January 1986, sought to
support a government program of rolicy reform in the sector which emphasized
the liberalization of commodity pricing and interest rates, and the reduction
of public sector intervention 'n agricultural trade. The loan, which financed
imports of agricultural inputs, is fully disbursed, but achieved only limited
results in agricultural policy adjustment. This loan was closed on June 30,
1989.
2.11       Oanoing Protects.  There are three agricultural projects currently
under implementations Puerto Ila Chone (Ln. 1991-EC) and Esmeraldas
(Ln. 2044-EC) Rural Development Projects, and the Second Agricultural Credit
Project (Ln. 2752-EC). The rural development projects, both in their last
year of implementation, are now progressing satisfactorily after several
periods of institutional and financial crisis. The Second Agricultural Credit
Project aims to stimulate on-farm investment, and to strengthen the
operational efficiency of the National Development Bank (5NF) and other
pa xicipating financial intermediaries.  Execution of the project is
satisfactory.
sank Leadina 8trateon for the Sector
2.12       In recent years, Bank lending to agriculture has been focused in
three areass (a) policy reform in pricing, trade and credit; (b) provison of
investment credit; and (c) an area specific attack on rural poverty. The
Bank's operations in these areas have been met with varying degrees of
success. Liberalization of agricultural trade and marketing, pursued through
the Agricultural Sector Loan (para 2.10), has not been achie-si, though the
activities of the State Marketing Companies which were targeted under the loan
have been partially reduced, as have subsidies on imported commodities,
especially wheat. Some progress has also been made on the reduction of
external trade restrictions, but further efforts in this direction are still
needed. In the area of agricultural credit, aolid progress has been achieved
with a general agreement on official interest rates, which are scheduled to
rise to market levels by June 1992. Under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project (para 2.11) commercial bank participation in lending to agriculture
has been increased and Bank resources have been made available to the sector
in an increasingly competitive environment. At the same tims a major
reorganization of BNF, the principal official source of agricultural credit,
is being financed by the loan with the agreed objectives of modernizing its
operations and enabling it to compete more effectively with private commercial
banks.
2.13.      Looking to the future, the priority needs of the agricultural
sector are as follows: (a) continued liberalization of trade and marketing to
minimize distortions and to increase the efficiency of resource allocation
within the sector and between agriculture and other sectors of the economy;
(b) investment in infrastructure, especially flood control, irrigation and
rural roads; (c) technology generation and transfer; and (d) conservation and
management of natural resources. Within these broad priority areas, the needs
of the commercial farm sector will be best served through the opening up of
2. PCR, May 28, 1982.



-7-
trade and the development of more competitive financial markets. These forces
alone would significantly increase access to improved agricultural technology
ind wiould improve investment incentives.  In the small farm sector, however,
nore direct interventions are needed, and this is where the main focus of Bank
Lending should be.
2.14       All of the priorities outlined above are being addressed through
Bank operations either under execution or under preparation.  The main trade
issues are being incorporated into a proposed trade policy loan; and the
activities of the State Marketing Companies, the restructuring of BNF and the
maintenance of the interest rate agreement are being monitored closely through
the Second Agricultural Credit Project. In the last two years there has been
a notable improvement in the management and implementation of ongoing rural
development projects managed by the Ministry of Social Welfare (M8S) and
preparation is well advanced for a proposed Bank-financed operation in support
of a focussed National Rural Development Program. This would concentrate on
small scale irrigation infrastructure, applied research and extension for
small farmers, land titlina and development of small farmers' credit and
marketing organizations with significant involvement of NGOs. The proposed
project would be the first phase of a coordinated attack on rural poverty
through productive investment. In parallel, discussions are proceeding on a
possible irrigation sector operation aimed at establishing a more rational
system than currently exists for coordinating, financing and implementing
irrigation investments throughout the country. This operation would place
strong emphasis on institutional strengthening, evaluation criteria and cost
recovery.
2.1S       Other possible initiatives with an impact on the sector are
contained in a proposed environmental project now in the early stages of
discussion which would establish a stronger institutional framework for
environmental protection and resource management. Of particular importance
for agriculture, this project would provide a basis on which to develop
programs for watershed management, forest protection and soil conservation.
In the area of agricultural technology, the Bank has not hitherto played a
major role in Ecuador, though this is clearly a priority area. The IDB is
currently active in this area through its National Program for Agricultural
Technology Transfer (PROTECA), but this project has been slow to have an
impact and a new approach may now be needed. Exploratory talks on ways of
involving IBRD in the expansion and improvement of agricultural services
(plant protection, animal health, small farmer extension, applied research) in
conjunction with other agenc' s, will be undertaken as the next phase of the
Bank's dialogue on sector issues.
2.16       The Lower Guayas Flood Control Project proposed here is consistent
with the strategy outlined above. It is the first phase of the long-term
development of potentially the most productive agricultural region in Ecuador
and one which is heavily populated with small producers. By providing the
necessary infrastructure for flood control, combined with a coordinated
program of technical assistance, it would provide the necessary conditions for
an important increase in output and social well-being. It would also provide
a master plan for dealing with the further development of the Guayas Basin in
an environmentally sound and economically viable manner.
The Lower Guavas River Basin
2.17       Location and Natural Features.   The watershed which comprises the
Guayas Basin is located in the coastal lowland area of Ecuador and covers
approximately 35,300 km2, making it the largest drainage network in South
America flowing into the Pacific Ocean.  Its lower part, t'- Lower Guayas
River Basin, of about 8,000 kin, is located in southwestern Ecuador. The area
extends from the Guayas Estuary along the Daule, Vinces, Babahoyo, Yaguchi and
Taura Rivers up to the foothills of the Andes Mountains. Due to the cooling



- 8 -
effect of the Humbolt Current during a considerable part of the year, average
temperatures are in the range of 22-25'C. The rainfall pattern is
characterized by a single rainy season averaging about 1,355 mm that lasts
about six months (the "winter"); the rest of the year (the "summer" or dry
season) records a total rainfall of less than 100 mm. The soils of the Guayas
plain range from fertile, well-drained, alluvial soils in the north, to poorly
drained soils subject to seasonal saturation in the south.
2.18       Within the Lower Guayas region lies the El Churute Nature Reserve
whose main portion include4s .mportant mangrove forests. A smaller, somewhat
disconnected part includes the El Mirador Lagoon and outcropped hills with
increasingly degraded forests. Although legally protected, both areas of the
Reserve have already been seriously encroached upon. The main proble'. in the
mangrove area is illegal clearing of mangro-'es fcr construction of shrimp
ponds. There are also agricultural and livestock activities taking place in
the Lagoon, around which live about 24 famiVies whc acquired land titles prior
to the establishment of the Reserve.
2.19       Floods.  Flooding in the Lower Guayas River Basin is a natural
phenomenon which has been occurring regularly throughout history. The
relatively flat topography and low gradient (1:1,000) result in a rather wide,
meandering river system with limited capacity for evacuating the high-velocity
water flows coming of f the western face of the Andes Mountains, which tower
over the Basin. Sedimentation, aggravated by deforestation in the upper
catchment area, cont.ibutes to limiting the water evacuation performance of
the river system.
2.20       Flooding in the area has adverse consequences for both urban and
rural life. In urban areas, flood waters curcail commercial and social
activities, interrupt public services--including water and sewage--and
increase the incidence of water-borne diseases and the loss of life. In rural
areas, in addition to causing the same devastation as in urban areas, flood
waters destroy crops and farm assets, including land, animal stock, buildings
and farm implements. The extert of damage to output depends on the timing,
duration, depth, and velocity as well as the role of flood waters as a vector
for pests. Damage can also be of a more permanent nature through sand
deposits. In the long run, the constant risk of flooding also dissuades
farmers frem investing. In some instances large farmers are able to invest in
on-farm flood control and drainage works. These, however, are costly and
divert flood waters to the land of less well-off neighbors during normal
years, and they are generally inadequate for averting damage during years of
heavy floods.
2.21       The existing system of flood control consists of dikes constructed
along the perimeters of the major water courses. Maintenance of these dikes,
which has proved to be ineffective even in years of average rainfall,
generally involves repairing breaches and annually shoring up dikes in
anticipation of flooding. Until 1989/90, such work was done by INERHI in the
Lower Guayas Basin, but now CEDEGE has assumed this role, along with
responsibility for overall development of the Basin's water resources.
Designated as emergency expenditures, annual costs of INERHI operations in the
area during the five-year period 1983-87 averaged US$680,000. There have been
four episodes of major flooding in the past 17 years: 1973, 1982/83, 1984/85,
and 1986/87. Depending on the year, these f'oods have covered from 36,000 to
184,000 ha and have adversely affected the lives of 31,000 to 187,000 people
living and working in the area. The value of crop losses alone during these
episodes ranges from US$2.2 to US$14.7 million at 1987 prices.
2.22       Agricultural Production.  The soils and climate of the Guayas Basin
are suitable for the production of a variety of crops. Parming is a
predominantly market-driven activity, with small-, medium- and large-scale
commercial producers supplying tropical and subtropical commodities, including



bananas, cacao, coffee, cotton, maize, rice, sugarcane and livestock products
for the domestic and export markets. Land distribution in the area is
significantly skewed. Until the mid-1960s, the majority of land In the Lower
Guayas area was concentrated in a small number of agricultural enterprises
dedicated to the production of sugarcane and rice and export crops such as
bananas and cacao. As a result of the various agrarian reform laws (passed
since 1964), some 100,000 ha were redistributed to about 8,000 small (less
than 20 ha) and medium (from 20 to 100 ha) farmers. It is estimated that at
present about 84% of the farmers in the project area are smallholders (less
than 20 ha holdings), of whom about 25% are organized in cooperatives. The
smallholders own about 20% of the land.
2.23       The production systems in the area are largely related to the size
of holdings. Although the risk (and effects) of annual flooding are by far
the most important limitation to sustained agricultural performance, the
vulnerability of the smallholder is generally compounded by additional
constraints. The larger production units (500 to over 1,000 ha) are mostly
involved in highly profitable, export-oriented products (banar.as and shrimp)
or are vertically integrated (sugarcane). Irrigation and drainage systems,
mechanized operations, adequate use of inputs, skilled management, effective
marketing channels and affordability of commercial credit contribute to
relatively high returns and an enhanced ability to mitigate the impact of
flooding. on the other hand, small farmers generally produce crops for
domestic consumption, in particular rice in low areas subject to flooding,
maize and cacao for export. Smallholder production systems are characterized
by labor-intensive operations, low use of yield-augmenting inputs, inadequate
crop management practices due to poor research and extension services,
monopsonistic marketing systems, inconsistent pricing policies, and limited
accecs to affordable credit. As a result, average yields and income are low
in normal years, investments in required infrastructure are limited, and
farmers are unable to overcome the increased costs and crop losses caused by
floods.
III. THE PROJECT
A. GENERAL
Proiect Orioi and Rationale for Dank Involvement
3.01       Project preparation (feasibility studies) was carried out from
September 1987 to November 1388 by INERHI, in cooperation with the Royal Dutch
Consulting Engineers and Architects (HASKONING) consultants, under a grant
from the Government of the Netherlands (GON). In November 1988 the Government
of Ecuador (GOB) nominated CEDEGE to take over from INERHI the remaining
preparation work and responsibility for project implementation. CEDEGE, with
support from HASKONING, completed the local preparatory works in May 1990.
Preparation progress was monitored by eight Bank missions that visited Ecuador
over the October 1987-January 1990 period. The project was appraised by the
Bank in March 1990, with participation by GON.
3.02       The Lower Guayas Basin is one of the country's most important
agricultural production areas. As such, the commercial and export oriented
growth of this region is a high priority for the government to achieve its
objectives of self-sufficiency in food and increased foreign exchange
earnings. Bank involvement in the preparation and appraisal of the project
has already led to a reorientation of project objectives and resulted in: (a)
a redesign of project to meet environmental concerns raised in the
Environmental Impact Assessment (BIA); (b) a TA component (about 20% of
project cost) to strengthen the institutions involved in project



- 10 -
implementation} and (c) an Agricultural Development Plan (PDA) to increase the
project's social and productive focus.
Project Obiec&Lves ln ' Beneficiaries
3.03       The p.- ct0 woulds  (a) reduce the risk of rural and urban flooding
and resultant lc  -.o life, property and output in the Lower Guayas Basin;
(b) improve hecltk ana living conditions through flood control and drainage;
(c) promote agricu.tural and livestock development through improved support
services; and (d) protect and conserve the natural environment in the Lower
Guayas Basin (800,000 ha), including the E1 Churute Reserve, and part of the
Upper Guayas watershed (409,000 ha). The project"s flood control system would
benefit the 188,800 urban and rural inhabitants of the 170,000 ha project area
through protection from up to 1X50 year frequency (i.e., catastrophic)
flooding. In any given year, an average of 36,400 people would be protected
against major flooding. In addition, about 3,300 small farmers (<10 ha) would
directly benefit from the agricultural development component.
S. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.04       The feasibility study area (IBRD Map No. 22256) is located in the
Lower Guayas River Basin, east of the city of Guayaquil. The area of about
420,000 ha, selected as a result of pre-feasibility studies completed in 1984,
is bounded by the Guayas and Babahoyo rivers to the west, the Jujan and
Chilintomo rivers to the north, the Cahar River to the south, and the
foothills of the Andes Mountains to the east. The area is crossed by various
river systems, some of which have their origin within the area and some
originate in the Andes, carrying large amounts of rainwater. Soils are
alluvial and slopes are very gentle. Most river stretches do not have
adequate carrying capacity to convey seasonal rainwater, which leads to
frequent and often devastating floods. The most flood-prone area has been
delineated by the 1982/83 flood, considered to have at least a 1:50 year
frequency. This area of about 184,000 ha is mostly high-potential
agricultural land but also includes a number of urban and semi-urban
settlements.
3.05       The main project civil works would include a flood control system,
consisting of bypass (flood-relief) channels, and construction/improvement of
river dikes. Modelling was used to design the most cost-effective and
environmentally sound flood control system. Various basic alternatives for
flood control have been identified and evaluated on the basis of technical,
social and economic criteria. The works configuration selected is the most
economically attractive option which at the same time minimizes environmental
degradation. Other works would include improvement of the existing drainage
system and construction of new drains, servicing a 60,460 ha area and
construction/upgrading of the rural road system within the project area. The
project would also provide support services for agricultural and livestock
development and for strengthening producer organizations. It would encourage
environmental protection of the ecological reserve in the project area and
would strengthen government institutions dealing with environmental matters.
The project would finance a global master plan for the entire Lower Guayas
Basin and part of the Upper Basin.
Infrastructural Features
3.06       Flood Control.  The project would include construction of bypass
(flood-relief) channels connected to rivers that cause most of the floods. To
convey the normal flow, existing river dikes would be reshaped and, where
necessary, new dike reaches would be constructed. By means of hydraulically
controlled and manually adjustable diversion structures, peak flows exceeding
river capacity would be diverted through bypass channels and into the Guayas



- 11 -
River. Bypass channels would consist of a central canal, flanked by flood
plains on both sides and protected by dikes. Before reaching the Guayas
River, flood water would be discharged into a natural flood plain area of
about 1,600 ha of unproductive scrub land. Due to the damping and dispersive
character of the proposed outlet works, the destructive effect of flood waters
would be dissipated prior to entering the mangrove tidal creek system
(Annex 1).
3.07       Drainage Improvement Works.  The flood control system would improve
drainage in the immediate vicinity of the rivers and bypass channels by
providing drainage outlets. In addition, the principal natural drains within
the project area would be cleaned, additional main and secondary drains
constructed, and existing drains reshaped. As a result, an area of about
60,460 ha, including an estimated 10,610 ha outside the project area, would
have a continuous and adequate drainage system, conveying drainage water
either into a principal natural drain or a bypass channel.
3.08       Roads and Bridges.  All-weather roads would be constructed on one
of the two dikes along the bypass channels and principal drains. Existing
roads along rivers would be upgraded. Bridges and crossovers would be
constructed across bypass channels; culverts and other required structures
would be added. The resulting road system would make possible adequate
maintenance of all major project features and, by means of upgraded dry-season
roads, would be connected to the existing road system, thereby improving
accessibility within the area.
Aqricultural Develooment
3.09       Reduction in crop losses alone offers sufficient benefits to
justify the flood control works. However, once the risk of flooding is
reduced, the area is potentially capable of achieving a substantial
improvement in existing farming systems as well as a sustainable increase in
agricultural production. Given their more favorable financial position, the
larger commercial farms in the area would be able to intensify production
without additional support. However, small-scale farmers would require
assistance in exploiting the security afforded by flood protection. The
agricultural development component of the project would provide production
support to the low-income farmer-beneficiaries (3,270 farmers having less than
10 ha holdings) which would promote incremental production through improved
agricultural practices (management, crop diversification, cropping patterns,
cropping intensity, and input use) and expanded investment in on-farm
infrastructure (machinery, marketing and construction of drainage systems).
As no significant change in the current production systems is likely to occur
until floods are effectively controlled, the agricultural development program
would be phased and contingent on the construction schedule of civil works.
These activities are described below and detailed in Annex 3.
(a) Research. Support would be provided to the National Institute for
Agricultural and Livestock Research (INIAP) to develop and
strengthen specific on-farm research programs, including rice
technology, water management, alternative crops, integrated pest
management, miechanization of small-scale operations, and seed
production. It would be channelled directly to the Boliche
Research Station (located in the project area) in the form of
technical assistance, equipment and vehicles and staff training,
and would complement the activities currently supported by the
IDB-financed PROTECA project. Research initiatives supported by
the project would start as soon as the project is underway.
(b) Extension. To enhance extension services currently available to
small farmers, the four Agricultural Service Agencies (ASA) located
in the project area would be strengthened. The assistance to be



- 12 -
provided would include additional staffing, training, vehicles,
short-term technical assistance and equipment. As in the case of
research, project activities would be complementary to those
supported by PROTECA (currently being reformulated) and implemented
focusing on the priority areas (poliaonos) established in the
project area. Specific mechanisms for coordination of extension
activities would be defined with MAG agencies prior to
negotiations.
(c) Narketing. The project area suffers, along with much of the rest
of the country, from inadequate marketing of agricultural output.
While a specific program to improve marketing organizations in the
project area--either owned by the State Enterprise for Agricultural
Marketing (ENAC) or privately owned-- would be beyond the scope of
the project, improvements in marketing conditions would be promoted
through special extension and farmer training programs. In
addition, BNP will be encouraged to provide credit for investments
in on-farm storage facilities.
(d) Farmer Organizations. Over 40 organizations, representing about
25% of the smallholder farmers, currently exist in the project
area. These include cooperatives and crop-oriented associations.
However, most of these are not assisting individual farmers mainly
due to financial constraints and weak management capabilities. To
strengthen existing viable organizations, develop improved
organizational structures and to promote the active participation
of individual farmers in project activities, a series of specific
interventions would be provided, including: (i) a diagnostic
review of existing organizations; (ii) construction, staffing, and
operation of a regional training center; (iii) specialized
technical assistance to UCB and the training center; and (iv)
organization of courses and workshops to be conducted by staff of
the National Institute for Peasant Training (INCCA) and the
Technical Directorate for Rural Development (DTDR).
(e) Land Titlina. Lack of legal ownership of land has a negative
impact on farmer willingness and ability to invest in on-farm
improvements. At present only about 250 smallholders either use
land without legal ownership, or their land tenure is not
formalized. Nevertheless, CEDEGE would sign an agreement and
provide logistical support to the Ecuadorian Institute for Land
Reform and Settlement (IERAC) to carry out the legal procedures
necessary to provide land titles to these farmers who represent 6%
of the 4,100 farmers with less than 20 ha holdings.
(f) Credit. Flood damage and associated risks have corntributed, along
with weak organizational capacity and lack of land titles, to
constrain the flow of credit to small farmers in the area and to
reduce substantially their creditworthiness. The impact of the
project via flood control, drainage, land titling, farmer
organization strengthening, agricultural research and extension,
would be to remove these constraints and to help integrate small
farmers into the credit system. Existing credit lines for small
farmers administered by BNF would be sufficient to meet the needs
of the beneficiaries of the PDA, and commercial credit would be
available for larger farmers. Interest rates for all official
lending to agriculture are subject to a general agreement with the
Bank and, by June 30, 1992, will reach market levels.
3.10       To implement the above activities, CEDEGE would establish
subsidiary agreements with MAG's various specialized agencies and institutions
(see para 3.20). CEDEGE would retain a coordination/administration role,



- 13 -
while monitoring the progress of each subcomponent. For this purpose specific
institutional strengthening would be provided to the Project gxecuting Unit's
(UCB) Agricultural Division.
Environuental Comoonent
3.11       There is a growing awareness in Ecuador of the negative
environmental consequencen of uncontrolled deforestation, the destruction of
mangroves and the excessive use of agrochemicals in farming. The project
area, bounded by mangroves and wetlands to the west and south and by the
foothills of the Andes to the east, offers an excellent opportuntity for
promoting sustainable development through rational exploitation of natural
resources and protection of fragile ecological zones. Unfortunately, beyond
the establishment of the 35,000 ha El Churute Reserve, little has been done to
date in the area. Indeed, poor management and lack of political resolve have
resulted in increased resource degradation in the Reserve itself, stemming
from human encroachment and expansion of shrimp farming.
3.12       An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the project was
conducted by CEDEGE and the Office of Environmental Affairs (DINAMA) of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines, assisted by HASKONING consultants, in close
collaboration with numerous NGOs and other agencies, including Fundaci6n
Natura, Fundaci6n Flora y Fauna, Fundaci6n IDEA, the National Office of
Forestry (DINAF), USAID, the Faculty of Natural Sciences, and the National
Institute of Fisheries of the University of Guayaquil. The ZIA identified the
flood control design option that would minimize any adverse environmental
impact. It recommended specific actions to enhance environmental protection
in the project area and its area of influence, which have been integrated
fully into the design of the proposed project (see Annex 5), including:
(a) preparation of an environmental management plan for the lower and
upper watersheds of the Guayas Basin;
(b) preparation and implementation of a long-term management plan for
the El Churute Nature Reserve;
(c) monitoring of environmental impacts on water bodies, soil and
fauna, during construction of civil works and implementation of
other project initiatives;
(d) development and promotion of integrated pest management practices
to reduce use of agrochemicals;
(e) strengthening the institutional capacity of CEDEGE, DINAF and
DINAMA to carry out environmental protection measures and to
enforce existing environmental regulations more effectively; and
(f) studies to advance knowledge on selected subjects such as mangrove
management and reserve protection and administration.
3.13       Environmental Konitorina.  Monitoring activities would be carried
out by CEDEGE, with the assistance of DINAF. and the environmental NGOs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CEDEGE would not later than June
30, 1991 reach an agreement with the group of concerned environmental NGOs on
the procedures for their participation. During project i- lementation,
monitoring of soil erosion and water-borne sedimentation would receive
priority. During the operational phase, monitoring would focus on water
quality to determine possible chemical contamination (from agricultural
production or from agroindustries) of water courses, including the Guayas
Estuary, as well as on the ecological hualth of the wetlands and mangroves.
The project would monitor the impact of excess flood water (carried by the
bypass channels) on the mangroves and on shrimp and crab production. CEDEGE



- 14 -
would design, establish and maintain a network of stations for water sampling.
Monitoring (in consultation with participating agricultural agencies) would
also be done of integrated pest control practices supported by the project as
well as pesticide and fertilizer use. CEDEGE, in consultation with the
Consultative Group to be formed by the NGOs participating in the review of the
ZIA, would monitor implementation of EIA's recommendations to ensure that the
above activities are carried out in a timely manner and that any corrective
actions needed are taken expeditiously by participating institutions.
3.14       Studies.  Environmental research would advance knowledge on
selected subjects associated with protection of ecological reserves and
fragile ecosystems (mangroves) in the project area. Topics to be covered
would be determined when DINAP presents its management plan for the El Churute
Reserve as part of the larger master plan proposed for the Lower Guayas Basin,
discussed below. It was agreed at negotiations that adequate TORs would be
presented not later than December 31, 1990.
Master Plan for the Lower Guavas Basin
3.15       Consistent with EIA recommendations, a master plan would be
prepared for the Lower Guayas Basin (800,000 ha) and for selected upper
catchment areas (409,000 ha) which could influence flood patterns in the lower
basin. The master plan, to be prepared by CEDEGE, would establish priorities
for the integrated development of soil, water, and human resources within the
study areas. The plan would assess existing public irrigation, drainage and
flood control projects and those in various phases of design. It would also
establish a basin-wide management plan for institutional, agricultural and
livestock development as well as environmental protection. It would
recommend:
(a) institutional changes to improve implementation of projects;
(b) prioritization of potential irrigation, drainage, and flood control
projects within the study area based on technical, economic, social
and environmental criteria;
(c)  immediate actions to mitigate identified environmental problems in
the upper zone--especially soil erosion and possible reforestation
activities--and specific studies required for the enhanced
management of the studied upper catchment areas;
(d) environmental actions to preserve natural habitats and to afoid
and/or minimize the negative impact of existing and future
irrigation, drainage, and flood control projects on soil, water and
fauna;
(e) possible priority projects to improve rural water supplies and
develop river fishing potential; and
(f) agricultural and livestock development activities with small
farmer-orientation to increase production and incomes.
Institutional Development
3.16       The proposed project would be a major challenge to the
institutional capacity of agencies involved in project implementation. This
component would aim to strengthen CEDEGE's capacity to manage and implement
the project and to improve intra- and interinstitutional coordination. During
project preparation an in-depth institutional capacity analysis was carried
out and capacity gaps identified against project tasks in terms of
legislation, interinstitutional relationships, organization, personnel policy
and skills. As a result, a project-supported institutional development



- 15 -
component (PSIDC) was prepared and designed to help mitigate or eliminate
these capacity gaps.  This would include 710 m/m of specialist assistance to
cover management and professional functions (US$12.6 million); skill upgrading
activities to bridge identified skill gaps at virtually all levels of staff
and beneficiaries (US$1.0 million) and related equipment and vehicles
(US$4.0 million). Total PSIDC costs amount to US$17.6 million (Annex 4).
3.17       PSIDC would help the Project Executing Unit (UCB) get organized, as
shown in the interins?itutional relationships map (Annex 4, Appendix 2) and
help carry out major management and coordinating functions. Furthermore, the
technical assistance provided through PSIDC would also help reduce or even
eliminate most of the identified capacity gapa in the institutions which would
implement the project. This would include the interinstitutional network of
reletionships that would be defined in the subsidiary agreements to be signed
between CEDEGE and the other agencies participating in project implementation.
Envisaged measures would strengthen the existing organizational structures of
the participating agencies. Monitoring and evaluation functions would be
organized and strengthened (paras 3.24-25). Technical assistance would be
provided in a way to ensure that new systems and procedures are transferred
and the required institutional capacity installed efficiently--not only for
the achievement of project objectives but also for the longer-term
sustainability of their corresponding benefits.
3.18       Training activities would help achieve the same objectives as the
technical assistance subcomponent. Skill gaps have been thoroughly identified
and the training plan is based on the management/staff/beneficiaries' tasks
implementation schedule so as to ensure adequate timing and smooth and
efficient task implementation. Seventy four professionals from CEDEGE and
ninety from other agencies would be trained to upgrade their identified
professional/technical skills as required by their assigned tasks. CEDEGE
support staff would also be trained in clerical skills and about 3,000 small
farmers would learn to use modern farming practices.
3.19       PSIDC implementation would be the responsibility of the
Institutional Development Division within the UCB, which would be headed by an
organization specialist and staffed by two professionals in training and
monitoring and evaluation. This division would also be responsible for the
continuing analysis )f the institutional environment in which the project is
being implemented. This would help project management to identify issues, and
formulate alternative solutions to make adequate and timely decisions. This
division would rely on UCB's and CEDEGE's administrative and technical support
to implement its own tasks. To help this civision incorporate modern
organization and management tools and processes, specific technical assistance
would be delivered in the form of 12 m/m of organization specialists.
C. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Project Nanaaement
3.20       CEDEGE would be in charge of project implementation and would be
involved directly in the construction of the civil works and subsequent O&M.
It would carry out the required studies and designs with its own staff and
with technical assistance. CEDEGE would coordinate all other project
activities and would enter into subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with executing agencies and institutions specialized in the respective
fields, such as: (i} HAG, INIAP, and PROTECA (for the PDA) and (ii) DINAF
(for the Environmental Component). Agreement was reached during negotiations
that CEDEGE would enter into subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with the agencies mentioned in (i) and (ii) above, not later than Jure 30,
1991; and (iii) IERAC for land titling and land acquisition procedures.



- 16 -
Finalization of the agreement with IERAC would be a condition of
effectiveness.
3.21       CEDEGE would implement the project through the UCB, designed after
similar units already in operation in CEDEGE. Under a Project Director, this
UCS would have seven divisions: (a) Planning and Control; (b) Administrative
and Financial Services; (c) Institutional Development; (d) Engineering; (e)
Construction Supervision; (f) Operation and Maintenance; and (g) Agricultural
Development and Environment. CEDEGE would be strengthened through training
and technical assistance (as described in para 3.16). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that: (i) GOE would employ and maintain staff
involved with project implementation in all above-mentioned agencies, in
numbers and positions in accordance with the Institutional Development Plan
and as updated by the PSIDC, for the efficient implementation of the project;
and (ii) UCB would be maintained with structure and functions acceptable to
the Bank, throughout the project implementation period.
Operation and Maintenance IO&M}
3.22       Adequate O&M would be essential to project succe,s.  In the past,
attention given to preventive maintenance has been inadequate and, as a
result, many flood control and drainage works in the area have tended to be
ineffective when ieeded. Part of the problem has been the lack of
well-formulated OM procedures as well as inadequate budgetary allocations,
usually approved as emergency operations only after flood damage has occurred.
Provision for these costs during the implementation period has been made under
the project. About one third of the estimated US$2.7 million equivalent would
be financed through the loan, on a declining basis, reaching full local
financing by project completion. The UCB would be responsible for O&M of all
project features until they are completed. It would also assume
responsibility for the O&M of all flood control structures constructed
previously by INERHI and incorporated into the new flood control scheme. It
would coordinate with the Ministry for Public Works (MOP) for the maintenance
of roads, bridges, and culverts included in tha road system within project
boundaries and under MOP jurisdiction. The operating rules of the flood
control system would be defined during the preparation of the final designs
and would be incorporated in the O&M manual to be prepared by the UCB (see
Annex 2). Following completion, all main and certain secondary drains and
flood protection dikes--serving more than one owner or farmer organization--
would be operated and maintained by CEDEGE, in accordance with specific
regulations to be established during the first year of project implementation.
Tertiary drains and roads would be maintained by local water boards to be
established after being proper training and following a running-in period, to
be specified in the O&M manual. On-farm drains would be operated and
maintained by the beneficiaries.
3.23        The following would enable proper local funding of project O&M:
(a) Annual flooding historically has required sizable public
expenditures to repair the existing, but ineffective, dike system
in the Guayas Basin, to restore public services and to provide
public relief assistance to disaster victims. With the project,
such emergency outlays can be foregone (para 3.44), thereby freeing
up resources to cover project O&M.
(b) Ecuador maintains a system of land taxation based on its assessed
value. With the project, the Guayas area would enjoy protection
from the annual risks of flooding, resulting in higher land values.
These higher land values would generate incremental tax revenues,
which would enable GOE to meet its obligations.



- 17 -
(c) CEDEGE proposes to elicit beneficiary participat.on in-kind (e.g.,
labor, fuel and machinery services) in maintenance activities.
It was agreed at negotiations that GOE would provide adequate and timely
funding to CEDEGE and other participating agencies for project-related O&M.
In addition, assurances were also obtained from GOE that on completion of
project works, a reassessment of land values in the project area would be made
for tax purposes.
MonitorinQ and Evaluation {M&E)
3.24       A Monitoring and Evaluation sub-unit would be established within
the Institutional Development Division of the UCB. This sub-unit would be
formed by a multidisciplinary team and would monitor progress in reaching
project targets, based on verifiable, time-bound, key performance indicators
for all project components. The M&E team would coordinate its activities with
UCB's Planning and PDA/Environmental Division (and through the latter with the
other participating agencies), allowing project management early
identification of implementation problems and appropriate actions to solve
them. Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to all participating
implementing agencies, the Bank and the GON not later than three months after
the end of each respective period. The reports would include all relevant
data on physical and financial progress of the project together with reasons
for deviations from the targets set under annual work programs, identifying
major issues/problems in planning and implementation of the project. These
reports would help the Bank to plan and decide together with the UCB on the
timing and composition of supervision missions.
3.25        The main objectives of the evaluation studies would be to estimate
the direct and indirect benefits resulting from the project as well as the
socioeconomic characteristics of the project beneficiaries. A baseline survey
would be conducted during the first year of implementation to establish the
overall pre-project situation. Subsequently, two evaluation surveys would be
conducted: a mid-term review at the end of year four and a final review
within one year of project completion. The mid-term review would analyze the
impact of flood control works, the delivery of agricultural support services,
the effectiveness of the environmental measixres taken, and the results of the
Guayas Master Plan and the Environmental Studies; thereafter recommendations
would be made of necessary measures to be taken to ensure optimal use of
available resources to reach project targets, including reallocation of funds,
institutional changes, additional studies and possible follow-up projects.
The final, broad assessment of the project's impact would comprise the
substance of the Project Completion Report. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (i) UCB would not later than June 30, 1991 satisfactorily
establish and put into operation a monitoring system; and (ii) submit to the
Bank a satisfactory list of performance indicators as a condition of
effectiveness. At negotiations assurances were also obtained that: (a) UCB
would submit to the Bank no later than three months after the end of each
respective period semi-annual progress reports; and (b) following receipt ci
the mid-term review recommendations, the GOE and the Bank would agree on any
specific measures to be taken to ascertain achievement of all project
objectives. If agreement could not be reached, or if the GOE were unable to
implement agreed measures within a three-month period from the end of the
consultation in question, new requests would cease to be presented for
disbursements.
Accounts and Audits
3.26        As CEDEGE would have overall responsibility for project
implementation, other participating agencies and NGOs would submit their
requests for reimbursement of project expenditures to CEDEGE, which would
maintain separate project accounts and records for each project component and



- 18 -
prepare statements of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation provided
by the various implementing agencies would be maintained by CEDEGE and made
available to visiting Bank mLssions and independent auditors, who on their
judgment would make field visits to implementing agencies for the purpose of
the overall audit. CEDEGE has prepared a standard chart of accounts for the
project that was reviewed and approved at appraisal. CEDEGE currently lacks
the capacity to maintain the project accounts. However, with the help of
management consultants it has developed an action plan to strei.gthen its
accounting procedures and staff. Successful completion of this plan would be
a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
3.27        Project accounts, including the special account (para 3.33), and
SOEs would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by external indepandent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, with terms of reference (TORs) approved by the Bank. At present
CEDEGE is audited by the Government auditor, i.e. the General Auditor of the
State (Contralor General del Estado). At appraisal, it was determined that
this auditor lacks the capacity to complete the project audit in the time
required. It was agreed at negotiations that CEDEGE would hire a private
auditing firm acceptable to the Bank, to be financed from the proceeds of the
Bank loan. Audit of the special account in the Central Bank would be the
responsibility of the Superintendent of Banks. Certified copies of these
audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close
of each fiscal year. At negotiations agreement was reached on TORs for the
audit work.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANW.ING
cost
3.28        The total cost of the project has been estimated at
US$97.5 million, including US$6.5 million in duties and taxes. Land
acquisition for project works has been estimated at US$3.2 million. Direct
and indirect foreign exchange costs would be about US$57.1 million, or 63% of
total project cost net of taxes and duties. The base cost is estimated at
US$77.4 million in March 1990 prices. Physical contingencies of
US$8.0 million are estimated at 15% for major civil works and 5% for other
activities. Price contingencies of US$12.1 million are estimated at 3.6%
annually during the implementation period. Project costs and the annual
phasing of investments are summarized in Annex 8.
Financina
3.29        A proposed Bank loan of US$59.0 million would finance 65% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. A condition of loan effectiveness would
be that the Borrower would enter into a contractual arrangement with CEDEGE,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make available to CEDEGE the proceeds of the
loan. Bank financing, on a net of taxes and duties basis, would comprise 100%
of foreign exchange expenditures and 80% of local costs for earth moving and
civil works in the construction of bypass channels, dikes, diversion
structures, main and secondary drains, bridges and roads. In addition it
would finance 42% of O&M costs during implementation, on a declining base
(100% up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000; 75% up to an aggregate amount
of US$540,000; 50% up to an aggregate amount of US$880,000 and 25% up to en
aggregate amount ot, US$1,000,000). The Bank would also finance 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures and 80% of local costs for vehicles and
equipment and 100% of technical assistance for: (a) the design and supervision
of construction works; (b) project management (including the overall training
rrogram); and (c) preparation of the Master Plan. Bank Financing would also
include 100% of expenditures for the environmental component (except the Upper



- 19 -
Watershed Area activities), including technical assistance, vehicles and
equipment, local manpower, and recurrent costs.
3.30        The Government of the Netherlands is expected to cofinance the
project under joint financing arragements with the Bank, through a grant of
US$7.0 million equivalent, representing 8.0% of project costs, net of taxes
and duties. This would cover 100% of the following expenditures for the
agricultural development component: (a) technical assistance, including:
(i) consulting services (US$2.7 million); (ii) vehicles and equipment (US$1.1
million); and (iii) training (US$0.5 million); (b) works for extension
services (US$0.5 million); and (c) miscellaneous materials and services
(US$0.5 million), totalling US$5.3 million. It would also finance 100% of
expenditures for the upper watershed area activities, within the environmental
component, including: (at technical assistance, through: (i) consulting
services (US$650,000); and (ii) vehicles and equipment (US$120,000); (b)
studies (US$800,000); and (c) recurrent costs (US$130,000) totalling
US$1,700,000. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the reciprocal
effectiveness of the GON grant.
3.31        All land acquisition, recurrent expenditures (for project staff),
as well as duties and taxes would be financed solely by GOE.   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that adequate and tiz.iely counterpart funding will be
made available to CEDEGE and all the other implementing agenjies. Project
beneficiaries would finance the costs of on-farm investments in drainage and
plantation establishment and rehabilitation.
3.32        IBRD Disbursements.  Loan proceeds would be disbursed over
8.5 years, consistent with the standard disbursement profile for Bank-funded
agricultural projects in Ecuador. Estimated schedules of Bank loan
disbursements are shown in Annex 7.
Soecial Account
3.33        To expedite implementation, GOE would establish a special account
for the project in the Central Bank, in US dollars, to cover eligible Bank
expenditures under the loan. The Bank would deposit up to an initial US$2.0
million into this account, equivalent to an estimated four months of average
disbursements. CEDEGE would manage this account and make withdrawals.
Disbursements from the account would be made on the basis of SOEs. SOEs would
be accepted under civil works contracts valued at less than the equivalent of
US$1.0 million. For goods and equipment, the limit should be equivalent of
US$150,000 or less. The account would be replenished through normal
reimbursement of project expPnditures.
Procurement
3.34        Procurement for all items, including those financed by GON, would
follow Bank procurement guidelines as follows:
(a) Civil Works. Civil works would be contracted in lots of more than
US$50,000 ' and would be procured according to the following
contract amounts. Works costing between US$50,000 and US$2.0
million equivalent, representing an estimated 42% of civil works,
would be procured under local competiti'-e bidding procedures (LCB)
acceptable to the Bank and through whi4h:  (i) foreign contractors
would be allowed to bid on all contracts; (ii) a minimum of 30 days
would be allowed between the date of publication of the last
2/    Except for the small works required for environmental activities,
estimated to cost in aggregate no more than US$40,000 for which GOE
procedures for local shopping would be followed.



- 20 -
advertisement and the bid opening date; (iii) each bidding would be
advertised for at least three days in a national newspaper; and
(iv) bidders would be allowed to submit their bids by mail. Civil
works contracts above US$2.0 million equivalent, totalling about
USS30.7 million, would be procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
To minimize adverse impacts on the environment during
construction, specifications in the bidding documents for the major
works would include clauses under which contractors would be
required to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage.
(b) Goods and Consultant Services. Vehicles required for the project,
estimated to cost about US$1.0 million equivalent (Bank financing),
would be procured--in three bid packages valued at more than
US$250,000 equivalent each--in accordance with the project
implementation schedule, and would be procured under ICB procedures
following Bank guidelines.   Miscellaneous equipment (computers,
field survey equipment, etc.) needed for the project, costing in
aggregate no more than US$1.0 million equivalent, and vehicles
required at a later stage of project implementation, ^osting in
aggregate no more than US$0.4 million equivalent, would be
purchased in several lots of under US$250,000 equivalent each, and
would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. GOE
procedures for local shopping would be followed, obtaining price
quotations from at least three qualified suppliers for the
procurement of various office and field equipment, in lots of under
$25,000 equivalent each, costing in aggregate no more than US$0.4
million equivalent. Consultants for: (i) design and supervision of
the construction component; (ii) project management and O&M; (iii)
preparation of the Master Plan Studies; and (iv) the environmental
activities (except the Upper Watershed study), would be selected
and retained in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.35       Contract Review.  Civil works contracts above US$1.5 million, and
goods and equipment contracts costing more than US$250,000, as well as the
first two contracts for works and the first two for goods below the
aforwmentioned respective limits, would be subject to the Bank's prior review
of procurement documentation before invitations '-o bid were issued and
contracts awarded. This review would result in a coverage of about 80% of the
total estimated value of works contracts and about 60% of goods contracts.
The balance of contracts would be subject to post-review by the Bank after
contract award. Consultant contracts (other than the first three such
contracts), for services costing the equivalent of US$30,000 or less, would be
exempted from such prior review, but will be sabjected to post-review by the
Bank after contract award.



- 21 -
Pkon rnentA Amungemew' a
(USS NiltlIon)
PocreMnt ethod
Project
Element              ICe           LCB              ?.1her           Total
30.7          22.1                              52.8
Civil  Works       (25.8)         (18.7)                             (4.5)
Vehicles and         1.8           1.8              0.4               4.0
Equipment          (1.0)          (1.4)            (0.4)            (2.8)
Technical h/                                       16.5 S/           16.5
Assistance                                        (10.7)            (10.7)
Land                                                3.2               3.2
Acquisition                                        (0.0)             (0.0)
Miscellanecus S/                                   21.0              21.0
(1.0)            (1.0)
Total             32.5           23.9            41.1               97.5
(26.8)        (20.1)           (12.1)           (59.0)
a, Figures in parentheses reflect the estimated amount financed by IBRD.
/ Including: (M) consulting services; (it) training; (iif) studies; and
(iv) recurrent expenditures for environmental activities.
m/ Including on-farm investments, O& and recurrent expenditures.
3.36        Since 1987, the Bank has conducted a series of detailed reviews to
determine the consistency of Ecuadorian procurement procedures with Bank
guidelines. During the reviews, the following specific points of conflict
between Ecuador's Procurement Law and Bank procurement guidelines were
identified. Local law:
(a)  requires that for purposes of submitting bids foreign bidders have
a local representative;
(b)  specifies a two-envelope bid submission system, whereas the Bank
requires a single-envelope method;
(c)  requires that bid and performance guarantees be supplied by a bank
established in Ecuador, whereas the Bank accepts banks located
anywhere, provided that they are acceptable to the Ecuadorian
authorities;
(d)  does not specify clear evaluation criteria for selecting a bid;
(e)  requires that the financial solvency of a foreign bidder, when
certified by a foreign bank, must be re-certified by a local bank;
and
(f)  requires that letter of credit or other advances to cover
purchases of goods or services be secured by a 100% Bank guarantee
by the seller or service-provider.
3.37        In addition, GOE recently promulgated a new law on consultants
(Lev de Consultoria) which introduces some provisions that are in direct
conflict with Bank guidelines. Although amended in August 1990, this law
still retains the following conflicting provisions:



- 22 -
(a) it requires prior registration of consultants to be eligible for
hiring; and
(b) it requires mandatory co-participation of local consultants in all
consulting works, and that proposal evaluation takes into
consideration the level of utilization of local expertise in the
assignments uader consideration;
3.38       GOE recently promulgated a new law on public contracting (Lay de
Contratacion Publica) and amended the law on consultants. Both laws now
include a clause stating that in cases of procurement or consulting contracts
financed through loans from multilateral institutions, such as the Bank,
procurement procedures stated in the respective loan agreements will prevail.
Accordingly, the loan agreement would contain express provisions to resolve
the specific conflicts between Bank guidelines and local law. GOE and CEDEGE
provided assurances at negotiations that procurement procedures regarding Bank
financed components will be acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with
Bank guidelines.
3.39       For purposes of Loan effectiveness, a legal opinion from Ecuador's
Attorney General (Procurador General del Estado), the highest legal authority
in the Ecuadorian executive branch, will be required, stating that the terms
of the Loan and Project Agreements with the Bank (which include the terms
regarding procurement and consultants) are valid and binding in Ecuador.
3.40       Land Acquisition.  Land acquisition would take place for those
areas where flood-control and related infrastructural works are planned. In
total, some 6,500 ha of land would be acquired, of which some 4,600 ha are
currently used for agricultural activities Y; the remaining 1,900 ha are
unused land covered with buoh, including the 1,600 ha to be used as a flood
attenuating reservoir. Of the total area to be acquired, 71% belongs to large
farmers, 24.8% to medium farmers and 4.2% to smallholders. CEDEGE would sign
a subsidiary agreement with IERAC to eorure timely assessment of the value of
land, improvements, and standing crops to be compensated in accordance with
the Land Reform Law, in order to avoid any possible delays in the civil works
contracts processing.
3.41       Cost Recovory.  Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of flood
control and drainage works is a complex issue. As in many countries,
protection against flooding in Ecuador is considered a social service, i.e.,
the Government's responsibility; hence the accepted view is that beneficiaries
should not be directly charged. Unlike irrigation systems, for which
collection of water charges is regulated by law--although the charges are
unrealistically low and their collection is ineffective--there is no
legislation for cost recovery of flood control and drainage works. Moreover,
benefits from flood control and drainage works vary, depending on location,
land level and soil quality and use. Unless cost recovery is done through a
land productivity-based system, it appears very difficult to design an
equitable system uf direct cost recovery.   For these reasons and given the
social dimension of the project--its beneficiaries being mainly the poor small
farmers, who represent two thirds of the rural population in the project
area--GOE and the Bank agreed that direct cost recovery from beneficiaries is
not a realistic objective for the project. Nevertheless, the estimated annual
O&M expenditures, expected to reach about USS7SO,000 at project completion,
would be more than compensated by budgetary savings and additional income, as
outlined in para 3.21.
V)   Land acquisition will not affect settlements and will not cause
interruption of agricultural and/or livestock activities on any of the
farms affected.



- 23 -
E. PROJECT BENEFITS
3.42       The project would generate a variety of benefits in both rural and
urban areas, including averting losses in economic output and infrastructure,
facilitating increased investment, productivity and incomes particularly among
small farmers, improving health and sanitation conditionu, increasing
government savings and revenues, and enhancing the environmental quality of
areas both inside and outside the project boundaries. Some of these benefits,
particularly those related to health, sanitation, and environmental quality,
cannot be readily quantified, though they are likely to be considerable.
Flood Protection
3.43       The benefits from flood control and protection include averting
losses in economic output, destruction of private and public property and
government emergency expenditures. In rural areas the direct impact of
flooding on agricultural production is manifested by foregone output from
areas that cannot be planted or additional costs for replanting of standing
annual crops, lower yields and lower quality output.  Damage to farm aasets
includes flood destruction of perennial crops, machinery, buildings and other
infrastructure. The monetary value of these kinds of damage was estimated
using crop budgets representing the major crops and farming technologies of
the project area. Three categories of losses were estimated: (a) net income;
(b) cost of replanting annual crops; and (c) reestablishment of perennial
crops and shrimp ponds. Not estiamated were repairs and replacement of farm
investments, including infrastructure and animal stock. No allowance wss made
for price increases caused by lost output to reflect scarcity during flooding.
Estimates of these losses (e'pressed in 1987 prices) for the four most recent
major floods are: 1973, US$4.3 million; 1982/83, US$8.9 million; 1984/85,
US$1.7 million; 1986/87, US$2.6 million.
3.44       Official estimates of damage, in urban areas exist, but the coverage
of such information is incomplete and available only for the 1982/83 and
1986/87 floods. Damage to both private and public property was conservatively
estimated at US$3.4 million in 1982/83, US$0.8 million in 1984/85 and US$2.9
million in 1986/87.
3.45       Implementation of the proposed flood control system would -!so
generate public savings by avoiding emergency expenditures to shore up the
existing, but largely ineffective, dike system. Budgetary outlays for this
activity have averaged about US$635,000 p.a. during the past five years.
3.46       Once completed, the flood control system would offer security to
area farmers; increased on-farm investments and better land use are expected
to follow. While the PDA would support these activities for small farmers
(and hence benefits are assigned to that component), larger farmers producing
bananas and sugarcane would be able to undertake investments on their own.
Conservatively, an estimated 5,360 ha of land currently used as low-value
pasture are expected to be converted to more intensive, high-value production
(e.g., bananas and rice) with the project.
Drainage
3.47       Improved drainage would result in increased production from higher
yields and from an expansion of crops into areas previously flooded due to
poor drainage. Most larger farms already have on-farm drainage systems but an
estimated 6,620 ha will require further investment to take advantage of the
proposed drainage system. on the 60,460 ha benefiting from improved drainage,
including an estimated 10,610 ha outside the project area, yield increases
with the project have been estimated for the main crops as follows: rice and
sugarcane, 10%; bananas and cacao, 5%.



- 24 -
Agricultural Develonment
3.48       Benefits from extension and research activities in support of small
farmers would include increased production and incomes stemming from
improvements in input use and farming practices, renovation of plantations and
changes in the cropping patterns into high-value crops. Such benefits would
complement improvements in drainage; yield increases of up to 25% for rice,
cacao, and horticultural crops are estimated to accrue gradually and reach
full development in year 10. Benefits from research findings with a longer-
term impact and those applied outside the project boundaries have not been
quantified.
Socioeconomic ImPact
3.49       An estimated two-thirds of project beneficiaries in rural areas
live in relative poverty, i.e., farm income less than 40% of the average GDP
per capita of US$960 in 1987. While the welfare of these farm families is
reduced even further during years of flooding, the long-term impact of the
floods is to induce farming practices that limit investment and cash outlays
for inputs in order to minimize potential flood losses. Once protection from
flooding is ensured by the project, smaller farmers with less than 10 ha will
be targeted to receive technical assistance in upgrading their farming
practices.  Incomes for most small farmers should increase significantly, with
all but the smallest able to increase per capita income atove the poverty
threshold.
Environmental Impact
3.50       The proposed project would have significant socioeconomic benefits
and a positive net ecological impact. The design for project works reflects
major changes recommended by the EIA to minimize environmental degradation.
Safeguards have been built into the project to monitor and correct the
negative impacts the project might have, particularly during the construction
phase. As was the case in the preparation of the EIA, the project's
organization strives to foster the collaboration of key environmental agencies
in its implementation. The project includes specific interventions--
institutional strengthening, master plan development, integrated pest
management, long-term study of mangrove management and exploitation,
environmental monitoring--geared to improve the ecological health of the Lower
and part of the Upper Guayas Basin, not just to address any direct negative
environmental effects emanating from the project. As a result, the overall
impact of the project would be more environmentally beneficial than future
development in the area without the project.
Economic Analysis
3.51       The following paragraphs summarize the cost and benefit streams
included in the economic analysis of the project (the financial and economic
analysis is presented in Annex 9):
(a) Costs. (i) construction expenditur,s and O&M of flood control and
drainage works, including on-farm investment; (ii) costs for
agricultural development and project management; and (iii) output
foregone from cropland d4isplaced by flood and drair i_ works.
(b) Benefits. (i) averted losses of agricultural output and urban
infrastructure annualized and weighted by frequency of occurrence;
(ii) improved land use and crop yields from drainage investments
and agricultural support activities; and (iii) savings of public
expenditures for emergency works. Because of difficulties in
quantification, net environmental effects, expected to be positive,
have not been considered in the economic analysis of the project.



- 25 -
3.52       Financial prices for all major outputs and inputs were adjusted to
economic prices using appropriate border pricing techniques based on 1995
commodity price projections from IBRD. Wages for rural labor in the project
area, which suffers from periodic labor shortages, were assumed to reflect
economic values. Investment costs were adjusted, on a net of taxes basis,
using a conversion factor of 0.875, to reflect the overvalued sucre relative
to the US dollar.
3.53       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project has been
calculated at 15%. A project life of 40 years was assumed, reflecting the
expected economic life of most of the major investments under the project.
Switching tests indicate that expected benefits would have to decline 22%, or
costs increase 24%, before the ERR would fall to 12%, the assumed opportunity
cost of capital (OCC) in Ecuador. Sensitivity tests were also run and
indicate that the ERR would remain above 12%, even with a two-year lag in
benefits.
3.54       The ERR estimated for flood control as a free-standing project is
17%, with a net present value (NPV) of US$10.0 million at the assumed Occ of
12%. The drainage and agricultural development components are complementary
to flood control and to each other; thus, meaningful allocation of costs and
benefits between them is not possible. Evaluated jointly, their inclusion
would increase the overall project NPV to US$11.5 million and would generate
imiportant social benefits fer small farmers in the area.
Proiect Risks
3.55       The following paragraphs summarize project risks and measures taken
to mitigate them:
(a) Faced with budgetary shortages, GOE may experience difficulty in
providing adecuate and timely counterpart fundina for the project.
Total exterr.al financing of 73% would minimize this risk. In
addition, actual outlays by GOE would be limited to US$20.0
million. Assurances would be obtained that GOB would provide
sufficient resources to cover these expenditures. Direct
beneficiary participation would be encouraged to ensure proper
maintenance through provision of assistance in-kind.
(b)  Environmental agencies may withdraw commitment to the project if
environmental initiatives in the project are not implemented in a
manner consistent with EIA recommendations. The project's design,
organization, and financing attempt to minimize this risk. In
addition, environmental groups would be consulted during
implementation, offering the opportunity to review the project's
consistency with EIA recommendations.
(c)  CEDEGE lacks exoerience in multi-aaency coorcination and
agricultural develonment. An adequate complement of agricultural
professionals to staff CEDEGE would be recruited. Substantial
technical assistance and training would be financed by the project
to ensure that CEDEGE can &tract qualified professionals.
(d) Institutional weakness and inadeauate commitment of the various
support agencies to project activities could reduce chances for
successful implementation. Considerable resources have been
allocated to strengthening all entities involved in project
execution. Commitment would be sought through a subsidiary
agreement between CEDEGE and each executing agency.
(e) Deterioration of the macroeconomic nolicv environment may undermine
incentives for agricultural production. The GOE's improved



- 26 -
economic management and its recent agreement with the IMF mitigates
this risk.
IV*  SUMMARY OP AGRErM3NTS AND RECONMENDATION
Aareements
4.01       Conditions for loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) CEDEGE would enter into a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, with lERAC, for land acquisition and land titling (para
3.20):
(b) CEDEGE would submit to the Bank a satisfactory list of performance
indicators (para 3.25);
(c) CEDEGE would satisfactorily complete an action plan to strengthen
its acuounting procedures and staff (para 3.26);
(d) the Borrower would enter into a contractual arrangement with CEDEGE
satisfactory to the Bank to make available to CEDEGE the proceeds
of the loan (para 3.29); and
(e) reciprocal effectiveness of the GON grant (para 3.30).
4.02       During negotiations the Government and CEDEGE provided assurances
that:
(a) CEDEGE would enter into subsidiary agreements. satisfactory to the
Bank, with agencies participating in the project implementation,
including: (i) MAG, INIAP, and PROTECA, (for the PDA); and (it)
DINAF (for the environmental component) not later than June 30,
1991 (para 3.20);
(b) the Borrower would provide adequate and timely funding to CEDEGE
and other participating agencies for project-related O&M (para
3.23);
(c) CEDEGE would satisfactorily establish and put the monitoring
system into operation not later than June 30, 1991 (para 3.25);
(d) following receipt of the mid-term recommendations, the GOE and the
Bank would agree on any specific measures to be taken to achieve
project objectives (para 3.25);
(e) (i) project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, would
be maintained and audited annually according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) CEDEGE would hire a private auditing
firm acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
each fiscal year (para 3.27);
(f) adequate and timely counterpart funds would be made available to
CEDEGE and the other participating agencies for the effective and
timely execution of the project (para 3.31); and
(g) (i) CEDEGE and the other participating agencies (which implement
project components to be financed through the Bank loan) would
follow procurement arrangements described in paragraphs 3.34 to
3.37; and (ii) the loan agreement would contain express provisions



- 27 -
to resolve specific conflicts between Bank guidelines and local law
(para 3.38).
4.03       Assurances were also obtained at negotiations for the following,
less central conditions which would be incorporated in the Implementation
Program:
(a) CEDEGE would reach an agreement with the group of concerned
environmental NGOs on the procedures pertaining to their
participation in environmental monitoring not later than June 30,
1991 (para 3.13);
(b) DINAF would present TORe for the preparation of a Management Plan
for the El Churute Reserve not later than December 31, 1990 (para
3.14);
(c)  the Borrower would employ and maintain staff --involved with
project implementation in all participating agencies-- in numbers
and positions in accordance with the Institutional Development Plan
(para 3.21);
(d) UCB would be maintained with structure and functions acceptable to
the Bank (para 3.21);
(e) on completion of project works, a reassessment of project area land
values would be made expeditiously for tax purposes (para 3.23);
and
(f) CEDEGE would submit to the Bank semiannual progress reports no
later than three months after the end of each respective period
(para 3.25).
Recommendation
4.04       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$59.0 million on standard terms for Ecuador.
November 13, 1990



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Infrastructure Works
l.          The works foreseen under the project would provide 1:50 years
frequency flood control for a highly flood-pror.a area of about 170,000 ha,
including one urban and seven semi-urban settlements. If implemented, the
flood control works would improve natural drainage conditions in the adjacent
areas by lowering groundwater levels. In addition, the existing drainage
system would be cleared, and where required, reshaped, and additional drains
would be constructed. As a result, an area of about 63,000 ha, which have
been identified as priority areas concerning expected benefits resulting from
improved draina;S, would have a continuous and adequate drainage system. The
project would also build 801 km of access and service roads and would upgrade
110 km of existing roads. Bridges and other required structures would be
constructed. These works are described below.
2.          Flood Control.  Various flood control methods and combination of
them have been analyzed. The adopted solution, based on morphological,
social, and economic considerations, would consist of constructing
flood-relief (bypass) channels, reinforcing existing dikes along rivers, and
where necessary, constructing new dikes and limited river-training works.
Design criteria have been established regarding the shape and dimensions of
channels and dikes. Field surveys and geotechnical investigations provided
the indications for allowable depths, heights, gradients, and side slopes.
3.          Flood-Relief (BvDass) Channels.  The Bulubulu and Chimbo Rivers
would be connected to flood-relief channels through diversion structures.
These structures have been designed to allow a base flow, which equals future
river capacity, to flow through the river system, while excess water would be
diverted into the flood-relief channels. Four channels have been designed,
with carrying capacities ranging from 300 to 665 m3/s, having a total length
of 49 km. These channels have been designed to have a balanced cut and fill
cross section, divided into two parts: a 1.25 to 2.50 m deep and 25 to 40 m
wide central part, flanked by 40 to 50 m wide flood plains. Earth excavated
from the central part would generally be used to build the dikes protecting
the flood plains. Potential borrow areas would be located to provide dike
filling material, if needed. The flood plains will be flooded only in case of
major floods (frequencies 1:5 years and up). These land strips would be
grassed to provide good erosion protection, and controlled grazing would be
allowed on them. Six bridges across the flood-relief channels would enable
continuous traffic on existing roads.  Fourteen crossing ramps would
facilitate crossing bypasses at existing paths or in the vicinity of
settlements. At seven locations, where a flood-relief channel would cross a
stream, inlet structures have been planned to enable collection of stream
water into the channel. Five structures would be provided with inverted
siphons to maintain the existing flow pattern during the dry season. In
addition, 21 smaller structures (culverts and siphons) would ensure future
operation of existing irrigation and drainage canals. Along the outside slope
of the channels' protection dikes, collector ditches have been planned. These
ditches would collect excess water from the neighboring lands, discharging it
into the channel through nine culverts, equipped with flapgates to avoid
backflow in case of high water levels in the channels. The flood-relief
channels would originate at the Bulubulu and Chimbo Rivers, and, unified,
would reach a natural flood plain area of about 1,600 ha, located west of the
"Cerro Masuale," where the floodwave would be attenuated prior to entering the
tidal creek system, on its way to the Guayas River. The outflow would be



- 29 -
A1NKX1
Page 2 of 2
controlled through some 30 culverts with a total cross-sectional area of 50
sqm and a low earth spillway of nearly 700 m length.
4.          Urban Flood Control.  Under present conditions, eight urban
centers suffer from frequent flooding, five of which (Taura, Pedro J. Montero,
El Triunfo, Manuel J. Calle and La Troncal) are located in the Bulubulu River
Basin, and three (Marcelino MariduefAo, Naranjito, and Milagro) in the Chimbo
River Basin. As a result of the implementation of the flood control system,
all urban centers except El Triunfo would be protected against river flooding.
Additional measures are required to protect the city of El Triunfo against
flooding of the Verde River, and the Estero Galapagos River. The excess
discharge of these rivers will be diverted through a new channel (to be
constructed) of about 3 km length that will be connected to the improved
drainage system located between the Chimbo and Bulubulu Rivers from where it
will eventually discharge into the Barranco Alto River.
5.          Dikes and River Training.  Based on field investigations, it was
determined that 154 km of dikes (in several stretches) along the Bulubulu,
Boliche, Chimbo, and Chanchan Rivers, and some affluents, would be reinforced
and 100 km should be newly constructed. Similarly, it was established that
about 24 km of river banks within the project area need to be reshaped to
enable the passing of the respective design flows. To ensure maximum
stability of the dike system, within reasonable cost limits, their height was
limited to 3.25 m above natural ground level, to provide a 0.75 m freeboard
(for the estimated 1:50-year frequency flood event) and to allow a 4.0 m wide
top width. This would be covered by a 20 cm thick compacted surfacing layer
and used as both project service road and access road for the farmers.
6.          Drainage System.  Four distinct operations have been envisaged to
enhance drainage conditions in the project areas (1) cleaning and reshaping
the rivers and streams that are natural recipients of drain water (about 176
km); (2) improving 158 km of existing artificial drains to ensure that they
will have the carrying capacity for the estimated drainage flow; (3) adding
4S1 km of new main and secondary drains wherever required to ensure continuous
flow; and (4) connecting the flood-relief channels through their collector
ditches to the drainage systems in their vicinity. The above measures would
result in direct improvement of drainage conditions of about 30,800 ha, in
about 2.0 km wide land stretches adjacent to the rivers and streams within the
project area. Field investigations indicated that 60,460 ha of land would
benefit from the improved new drainage system.
7.          Road System.  Surfaced service roads (801 km) have been planned on
both sides of the top of river dikes and on one side of dikes along
flood-relief channels, new main and about 50% of new secondary drains. In
addition, some 110 km of existing summer roads would be upgraded to
all-weather roads to provide the necessary linkage between the existing
regional all-weather roadway system, and the newly planned project roads.
These roads are needed for access to perform proper and timely maintenance.
They would also improve transport of farm products and would assist in
improvements related to the social well being of project beneficiaries. In
addition, the construction of 13 bridges has been planned over the Bulubulu,
Boliche, Taura, Chimbo, and Milagro Rivers and some of their tributaries to
ensure continuity of the rural road system within the project area.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Operation and Maintenanc e ( 0MM
1.          CEDEGE would be responsible for O&M of all flood control works,
new and existing, and drainage works down to secondary drains. The operating
rules of the flood control system would be defined during the preparation of
the final designs and would be included in the operating manual. During
construction CEDEGE would operate and maintain all completed facilities.
Project features would be considered complete only when fully operational,
i.e. when: (a) any deficiencies in design or construction of the respective
features have been identified and corrected; (b) responsibilities for O&M have
been clearly defined and the O&M procedures established and fully understood
by the staff concerned; and (c) beneficiaries, local authorities and support
agencies have been informed about the flood control and/or drainage facilities
completed, and the subsequent improved production practices made possible. In
areas where new drains would be constructed by the project, the farmers would
have to complete and maintain their on-farm drains. Extension workers would
promote maintenance by farmers and train farmers in correct maintenance
procedures.
2.          Before handing over the responsibility for O&M, CEDEGE would
prepare and finalize an O&M manual, which would specify the technical,
organizational, and financial requirements for optimal operation and
maintenance of project facilities. The manual would be prepared in full
consultation with the Project Beneficiaries Committee (para 3.21) and its
substance discussed in meetings with representatives of all beneficiaries. As
a first step in the preparation of the O&M manual, an operational plan would
be drawn up by CEDEGE at the detailed engineering phase. Depending on the
type of works, the operational plan would cover:
(a)   operational reauirements, e.g., operation of flood-relief
channel and drainage gates;
(b)   inspection reguirements for flood-relief channels, dikes, main
and secondary drains, and appurtenant structures;
(C)   maintenance reauirements, including: (i) preventive
maintenance, such as servicing of vehicles and equipment,
removal of obstructions in channels, repairs of potholes in
service roads; (ii) annual maintenance such as weed control and
desalting of drains, reshaping dike slopes, repair of
structures; and (iii) emergency repairs related to floods;
(d)   oroanization and staffing requirements, specifying the proposed
responsibilities and tasks of beneficiaries and local
authorities, as well as qualifications and numbers of staff
needed for O&M; and
(e)   financing reauirements, specifying proposed sources and use of
funds for O&N, including proposed contributions in cash or kind
by the beneficiaries.
4.          The operational plan would be fully discussed with the Project
Beneficiaries Committee before the start of construction works. The final O&M
manual would describe all elements of the operational plan described above,



- 31 -
ANNEiX 2
Page 2 of 2
and would specify the responsibilities of all entities and individual staff
involved in the OEM of the project.  The O&M manual would be completed within
the first year of implementation and revised and updated every year thereafter
based on experience gained during the preceding O&M season.



- 32 -
ANME 3
Page 1 of 9
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Auricultural Development Plan
Introduction
1.          The Lower Guayas Flood Control Project in Ecuador was conceived as
a mechanism to minimize the risk of periodic floods in the most affected area
of the Lower Guayas Basin. The Agricultural Development Plan (PDA) was
developed as a complementary component aimed at assisting small-scale farmers
in the project area to benefit fully from improved conditions for agricultural
production. The present annex provides some basic information on the
rational, structure, and implementation mechanisms of the PDA.
Selection of PDA Beneficiaries
2.          Given the nature of the infrastructure to be provided by the
project, the entire farming community within the project area will benefit
from the flood control works, regardless of the size of holdings. However,
the PDA component has been primarily designed to address the particular needs
and constraints of farmers and rural population whose limited resources
preclude them from fully benefitting from flood-free conditions without
additional assistance.
3.          The methodology utilized to define the PDA's "target group" was
primarily based on the size of holdings. Taking into consideration such
factors as soil quality, predominant land use patterns, present average
yields, and net income generated, it has been established that those farmers
with less than 10 ha of land 1I would require additional project support.
Consequently, PDA interventions would provide direct support to an estimated
3,270 farmers. As illustrated in the following, this target group represents
almost 70% of the total production units in the project area.
X}J   Cooperatives are also included based on the average land allocated to each
member.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
Land Tenure in the Project Area
Holding Size                  Farms                      Area
(Has)                (No.)       (M)          ('000)       (%)
<  10 a/            3,271       67.0          15.6       10.9
10 -  20                 831       17.1          12.8        9.0
20 - 100                 661       13.6          26.3       18.5
> 100                 113        2.3          87.7       61.5
a/ Project Target Group
4.          The overall rationale for developing the structure of the PDA is
that, once the floods are controlled, those larger farmers not included within
the target group should be capable of improving their production systems
utilizing their own resources. However, it is acknowledged that the potential
impact of a series of indirect interventions (i.e improvement in INIAP's seed
production facilities, upgrading of the foot-and-mouth vaccine laboratory, and
certain research and technology transfer programs) will not be restricted only
to the target farmers. Thus, it is expected that the benefits from the
project should also reach a substantial proportion of non-target small and
medium farmers (about 1,500) within the project area.
Applied Research
5.          The National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIAP) is a
semi-autonomous entity within the Ministry of Agriculture. INIAP's research
network comprises seven research centres located in major agricultural areas
throughout the country. One of them, the Boliche Research Station is located
in the project area. With a staff complement of about 95 professionals,
technicians and workers, Boliche conducts basic and applied research programs,
as well as production of registered seed, in rice, legumes, sorghum, oilseeds
and cacao.
6.          Consistent with the overall weaknesses of agricultural research in
the country, the impact on production of Boliche's current programs and
services is substantially restricted by a lack of adequate resources
(insufficient budget, obsolete equipment, ind inadequate salaries of
scientists and technicians). Under the present conditions, Soliche would be
unable to respond effectively to the expected increased demand for services in
the project area, particularly regarding the areas of validation of
technologies and seed production.
7.          In the context of the overall goal of increasing agricultural
production of small-scale farms in the project area, the specific objective of
the PDA regarding research is to develop improved production systems that will
allow smallholder farmers to benefit fully from the flood-free conditions of
the project area. To achieve this objective, direct assistance to Boliche in
the implementation of specific applied research programs is considered
essential for the overall success of the project. More specifically, the
assistance to be provided will allow the research station to conduct the
following activities:
(a)   generate improved technological packages for smallholder rice
production;



- 34 -
AMRE 3
Page 3 of 9
(b)   establish a cacao nursery and genetic bank;
(C)   develop a crop diversification program suitable for small-scale
conditions;
(d)   introduce a multi-disciplinary adaptive research program aimed at
developing and promoting an Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
package for the main crops in the region;
(e)   establish a mechanization program to identify, test, and adapt
appropiate machinery for small-scale farmers;
(f)   increase the number and quality of outreach activities, including
technology-validation trials at the farm level;
(g)   contribute to the improvement of extension services to local
farmers, through the participation of researchers in field days
and training courses to extensionists; and
(h)   increase the volume and quality of registered seed of selected
crops.
8.          In order to assist the Boliche Research Station in the
implementation of the above described activities, the project will provide a
comprehensive support package aimed at complementing the station's existing
resources (as well as those to be provided through the PROTECA project). This
support involves five main components, i.e. office and laboratory equipment,
vehicles, technical assistance, training, and upgrading/expansion of existing
seed processing facilities. Full details, costs and operati.g budgets are
provided in Tables 1 and 2.
Agricultural Extension
9.          The problems resulting in the provision of inadequate extension
services in Ecuador are similar to those affecting research. Furthermore, the
situation is further aggravated by the complexity and weakness of the
institutional network responsible for extension services in the country. The
negative consequences of this situation are particularly evident in the
smallholder sector, which ie generally unable to obtain assistance from
private sources.
10.         In spite of the limitations described above, and in response to
the critical need for extension assistance of the project's target group, the
PDA will initially include an extension component to be implemented through
the existing organizations. The main objective of this component is to
improve the extension services provided to small-scale farmers through: (i)
strengthening the delivery mechanisms of extension agencies in the project
areal (ii) training of extensionists in methodological and technical issues;
and (iii) improving the coordination, and communication, between the existing
institutions responsible for research and extension in the region.
11.         The support to be provided by the project will be focussed on the
four Agricultural Service Agencies (ASAs), located within the project area in
Milagro, El Triunfo, Naranjito, and Yaguachi. In addition, the project will
establish and operate a Regional Training Center. Among other functions, this
center will provide the necessary facilities to conduct courses, workshops and
seminars for extensionists. Specific elements to be provided by the project
include:
(a)   Recruitment of additional staff for each ASA;



- 35 -
aEX 3
Page 4 of 9
(b)   Specialists (local and expatriate) in extension methods;
(c)   Upgrading of ASA offices;
(d)   Office and extension equipment;
(e)   Vehicles;
(f)   in-country and overseas training; and
(g)   Construction, staffing and operation of the Regional Training
Center.
12.         During the first three years of the project, new staff will be
recruited. In addition to regular extension activities, the staff recruited
in the first year will also participate in the preparation of a detailed
socio-economic survey of the project area. Once recruitment is completed, the
extension personnel of the three ASAs will total 30 extension agents and 3
supervisors), reaching a farmer to extensionist ratio of approximately 100:1.
Both existing and newly-recruited extension agents will receive a
comprehensive training program (groups of 15-20 participants during 80 days)
in modern extension methods and technical aspects related to small-scale crop
management and production systems. The recruitment and training of
extensionists will be conducted prior to the completion of the flood control
works (see table below).
Schedule for Recruitment and Training of Extensionists
Activity/Year                  0           1            2           3
Agent Recruitment              10                       10          10
Supervisors Recruit.            1                        1           1
Training (Survey)              11
Training (Extension)                       11           11          11
Non-project Trainees a/                     6            6           6
Total Extensionists Trained                17           17          17
a/ Extensionists from other ASAs
13.         Subsequent to the recruitment and training phase, a structured
program of assistance to farmers through periodic field visits will be
implemented by each ASA. This direct assistance will be supported by a series
of complementary activities, including work with farmer leaders, practical
workshops, field days, demonstration plots, and validation trials conducted by
INIAP-Boliche. An itemized description and breakdown of costs for the
extension component of the PDA is provided in Tables 3 and 4.
Suoxort to Farmer Organizations
14.         Due to the particular characteristics of the Agrarian Reform,
through which most of the smallholders in the project area obtained their
land, the organization of farmers in cooperatives has existed for many years.
Initially, the possesion and titling of expropiated land was only given
collectively to groups of farmers associated in cooperatives. In the past 20



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 9
years, the majority of cooperatives in the project area have experienced a
serieB of organizational and financial problems. A combination of many
factors, in particular inadequate management, poor planning and allocation of
resources, and default in financial obligations has resulted in a gradual
process of reduction in the number of active cooperatives and, in many cases;
of members within the remaining cooperatives. In spite of this, a total of 42
cooperatives with over 1,200 members are currently functioning in the project
area (see Appendix 1). It should be noted that, in addition to cooperatives,
other systems of farmer organizations operate in the project area. Although
not limited to smallholders, several second-grade -.rganizations and
associations have been created in recent years.
15.         In spite of the overall failure of the cooperative system in the
project area, there is considerable potential to promote the establishment of
more effective forms of farmer organizations. Furthermore, the long-term
impact of the project, as well as the sustainability of the peasant community
will, to a large extent, depend on the development of strong organtzational
structures with active participation of member farmers.
16.         Although implemented as part of the PDA, this component of the
project is not only aimed at achieving increased levels of agricultural
production. Through the implementation of mechanisms to promote and
strengthen existing or newly-created farmer organizations, the project is also
expected to: (i) ensure the active participation of smallholder beneficiaries
in project decisions, particularly for the operation and maintenance of
secondary and tertiary flood control/drainage works; (ii) assist rural
communities in obtaining improved social services; and (iii) develop specific
initiatives to enhance the role and participation of women in rural
activities.
17.         The actual delivery mechanisms of project assistance to farmer
organizations will be implemented by two agencies within the MAG structure:
the Technical Office for Rural Development (DTDR) and the National Institute
for Peasant Training (INCCA). The project will provide resources (see below)
to strengthen the operations of these two agencies within the project area.
However, the multi-disciplinary nature of this component will require the
complementary participation of a number of specialized organizations, either
from other ministries, local NGOs, or the private sector.
18.         INCCA and DTDR will appoint (or recruit, if necessary) a total of
eight professionals who will receive specialized training courses during the
early stages of the project. Subsequently, they will operate in teams of two
based in each of the four ASAs in the project area. The main activities to be
conducted as part of this component will include:
(a)   an operational assesment of characteristics, needs, and
constraints of each of the existing farmer organizations;
(b)   planning, organization, and coordination of a program of
activities related to the promotion and development of farmer
organizations, including meetings, courses, workshops, etc.;
(c)   assistance to farmer organizations in ensuring their active
participation in project activities and committees;
(d)   liaison with extensionists and researchers in the implementation
of technology transfer activities;
(e)   identification of specialized institutions to provide additional
support to project activities, based on the needs of the
smallholder community, and



- 37 -
ANNE 3
Page 6 of 9
(f)   preparation of appropiate training and promotion ma-cerials,
The resources to be provided by the project in support of this component
include institutional strengthening (training of INCCA and DTDR staff),
vehicles (for field activities), farmer training facilities (use of the
Regional Training Center), equipment (office furniture, audiovisual aids,
publications, etc.) and technical assistance. The description and costs of
this component are illustrated in Table 5.
Credit
19.         The overall concept of the project is ultimately designed to
provide smallholder farmers in the area with suitable conditions for
sustainable agricultural production. However, the availability of flood-free
land as well as improved technological systems may not necessarily generate
the expected results on production if the farmers are faced with financial
restrictions.
20.         In the past, most cooperativ-s and individual small farmers in the
project area have been unable to repay the loans provided by BNP or other
commercial sources, vainly due to crop losses in years of severe flood
episodes. Under the present conditions, it appears that project objectives
will be difficult to achieve unless smallholder farmers have access to
adequate credit.
21.         In addition to contributing directly to improving small farmers,
eligibility to obtain credits and to their repayment capabilities, the project
will also include specialized assistance to small farmers in accessing
existing credit lines in BNF. Subject to the requirements of the improved
production systems to be developed, small farmers will use BNF credit
facilities and will be supervised by ASA extensionists in the following
investment activities:
(a)   land preparation and inputs for annual crops, particularly rice
and suitable alternative crops;
(b)   establishment of annual and perennial crops, including cacao and
coffee;
(c)   on-farm drainage infrastructure;
(d)   small-scale machinery;
(s)   purchase of livestock, and
(f)   on-farm storage and processing facilities.
The estimated investment needs of farmers under the PDA are shown in Table 6.
Organization and Coordination of PDA Activities
22.         As in the case of all other project components, CEDEGE will be the
primary executing agency. The coordination and supervision of the various
institutions responsible for the actual implementation of the PDA will be
undertaken by staff of the Department of Agricultural Development and
Environment (DDAMA) within the Project Executing Unit (UCB). Prior to the
initiation of PDA activities, subsidiary agreements will be signed between
CEDEGE and MAG (on behalf of ASAs, INCCA, and DTDR), PROTECA, and INIAP.
Appendix 2 of Annex 4 illustrates the organizational structure of the project,
including the PDA.



- 38 -
Page 7 of 9
23.         In addition to its coordinating role, DDAMA will also be
responsible for providing specialized assistance (particularly training) to
the staff of the various implementation agencies. In order to develop an
improved and sustainable agricultural unit within CEDEGE, the PDA will also
provide institutional strengthening resources to DDAMA.
24.         DDAMA's staff structure will be representative of the different
components of the PDA. Overall management and supervision of PDA activities
will be the responsibility of the Director, assisted during the initial four
years of the project by an expatriate coordinator. The full-time professional
staff will also include extension specialists (agronomy and methods), an
agro-sociologist, an agro-economist, an economist specialized in agricultural
credit, and an expert in farmer organization and training.
25.         Project assistance to the organization and operation of the DDAMA
will include technical assistance, vehicles and equipment. Detailed cost
breakdown for this component is provided in Table 7.
26.         Effective inter-institutional planning and coordination will be
the main requisites for the overall success of the PDA. To ensure adequate
participation of all parties involved in the PDA (particularly the farmers)
two committes will be organized at the onset of the project.
27.         The Consultative Committee will meet every six months and will be
responsible for addressing normative and policy issues related to the
implementation of the PDA. This committee will be integrated by senior
officials of the different participating institutions (CEDEGE, UCB, MAG,
INIAP, and ASAs), as well as two representatives from the farmer
organizations.
28.         The Coordinating Committee will be comprised of representatives
from all agencies actively involved in the operation of the PDA, including
DDAMA, INIAP-Boliche, ASAs, INCCA, DTDR, PROTECA, National Programs, and
farmer organizations). Meetings will be held every three months at the
Regional Training Center to be located in the project area.
Technical Assistance
29.         The effective implementation of the PDA will require the provision
of specialized technical services (consultants). The technical assistance
subcomponent of the project would consist of short- and long-term assignments
by experts primarily expected to assist UCB/DDAMA and participating
institutions to coordinate and implement PDA activities, but also to conduct
courses and on-the-job training for DDAMA staff, reserchers, extensionists,
social workers, and farmers.
30.         The requirements for technical assistance for the agricultural
component of the project have been estimated at about 150 person-months over
the entire implementation period. The specific areas of expertise required by
the PDA include: project management and coordination, agro-sociology,
extension methods, research agronomy, on-farm drainage and agricultural
economics. The tentative structure of the technical assistance to the PDA is
provided in the following table.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
Technical Assistance to the PDA
Total                Counterpart
Specialist              Person-Months           Institution (a)
Agro-Economist/                       54               DDAMA
Deputy Director
Extensionist                          22               DDAMA/ASAs
Research Agronomist                   12               DDAMA/INIAP
(Farming Systems)
Water Management Expert               48               DDAMA/DTDR
Agro-Sociologist                       6               DDAMA/INCCA/DTDR/
Farmer Organizations
Non-Specified                         7
Total                          149
Table 7 shows the costs involved in the implementation of this component.
31.         All technical assistance experts to be recruited would work in
close collaboration with one or more local counterparts designated by the
appropiate institutions. In all cases, the main duties of the consultants
will be to (i) assist PDA staff and institutions in the preparation of annual
workplans, (ii) assessment of ongoing activities, and (iii) organize and
conduct training programs (as outlined in Annex 4, Institutional Development
Plan)
implementation Schedule
32.         The implementation schedule of the PDA component of the project is
contingent on the completion of the flood control works (expected to occur
during the third year of the project). In practical terms, this approach
implies that certain elements of the PDA such as the adoption of improved
technological systems would not be encouraged unless flood-free production
conditions are provided.
33.         However, the initial stages of the project would be utilized to
conduct a series of preparatory activities that will ensure that JAproved
support services are available to farmers once the full implementation of the
PDA is underway. The preparatory activities to be conducted during the
Preliminary Phase of the PDA include:
(a)   Finalization of the Implementation Plan for the PDA by staff
(local and technical assistance) of DDAMA, in close consultation
with all participating institutions and farmer organizations.
This will also include a detailed socio-economic survey of the
project's target group;
(b)   Construction of the Regional Training Center, and upgrading of
office facilities of the four participating ASAs;



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
(c)   Initiation of the adaptive research programs at INIAP's  oliche
Research Station; and
(d) Recruitment of additional professional and support personnel, and
implementation of training programs for staff from DDAMA, ASAS,
INCCA, and DTDR.



REPUSLIC OF ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL
Aaricultural Research
Detailed Cost Table
(USg)
Quantity                                             Base Costs
Unit   1991   1902  1993  1994  1995  96-97 Total           1991    1992   1993   1994    1995 1996-97  Total
… ---        -----------------                      ---                  ---------…-------…
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles and Equipm_t
4WD                     Unit        1      0      0      a      0      0      1      18.0    0.0    o.o   0e.         o.0    0.e   18.0
Pick-Up                 Unit        6      0      O      a      0      0      6       78.0    6.6    o.e    6.0       e.0    *.a   78.0
Coaputers               Unit        2      a      0      a      0     0      2        6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    S.0
Copier                  Unit        1      0      0      0      0     0       1       4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      4.0
Furniture               Unit       -      -      -      -      -      -      -        1.3    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    1.a
Balance Scale           Unit        6      0      0      0      0      0      5       10.0    0.0 e    .0    0.0      0.0    0.0   10.0
Incubator               Unit        1      a      0      0      a     0       1       1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0      1.0
Moisture Ueasure        Unit        4      a      O      a      0      0      4       0.8    0.9    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    2.8
Other Lab Equipment     Unit       -      -      -      -      -      -     -         2.0    e.g    0.e    0.e        0.0    0.0    2.6
Machinery A Tools       unit       -      -      -      -      -      -     -        S0.0   69.90 so                                lS0.
Sub-Tota l                                                                           170.0   S0.0   60.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  270.0
D. Training
Craduate (Overseas)                 0      2      1      0      0      0      3       0.0   40.0   20.0    0.0        0.0    0.0   89.a
Courses (Overseas)                  0      2      2      2      0      0     8          C.6   2090   2090    20.0     0.0    0.0    8.0e
Sub-Total .0    8.9   40.0    29.0                                                                                    0.0    0.0  120.0
C. Cacao Plantation                     -      -      -      -      -      -     -         7.8    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    7.8
----   ---  ---   ---- ------- ------                             $.-
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      177.8  110.0   90.0   20.0    0.0    0.0  397.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staffing
Coordinator (Fare Systam)Months     8    12    12    12    12    12    78             2.6    6.3    6.3    6.8        5.8    6.8   84.3
Agriculture EconomIst   months      6    12    12    12    12    12    78             2.4    4.0    4.8    4.8        4.8    4.8   31.1
Agronomist              months    18   1i    48    48    48    48   272               8.4    6.4   19.1    19.1    19.1   19.1  108.4
Asat. Coordinator       Months      8    24    24    24    24    24   162             8.2    9.6    9.6       9.8     9.8    9.6   66.6
Secrotary               Months      8     12    12    12    12    12    78            1.0    2.1    2.1    2.1        2.1    2.1    13.6
Sub-Total                                                                             16.6   28.1   40.8   49.8   40.B   40.8  248.0
S. Social Charges                       -      -      -      -      -      -     -         8.8   11.2   16.3   16.3   16.8   16.3   99.2
C. Vehiele OAM
4vD                                 1      1      1      1      1      1     7        2.2    2.2    2.2       2.2     2.2    2.2    16.6
Pick-UpS                            6      6      6      6      6      6    42        10.3   10.8   10.3   10.3   10.8   10.8   72.1
Sub-Total                                                                              12.6   12.5   12.5   12.6    12.6   12.5   87.0
D. Trials and Events
Annual Crops            Unit        0    128   170   212   266   258  1278            0.0   10.6   14.1   17.6    21.8   21.8   106.1
Cacao                   Unit        0      4      4      4      4     4    24         6.0    2.2    2.2    2.2        2.2    2.2    13.8
Detailed Studies        Unit        0      6      6      6      6      4    32        0.0    2.0    2.0    2.0        2.0    1.3   16.8
Field Days              Days        0     16    16   l    16    18    96             0.0    8.6    3.5       3.6    3.6      3.6   21.3
Courses                 Unit        0      1      1      1      1      1     6        6.9    6.6    6.6    6.6        5.6    6.6   38.2
Plantation Maintenance             -      -      -      -      -      -     -         0.0    0.8    0.6    0.6        9.06    0.6     8.3         -3
-- - -              - - -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - -  -0-
Sub-Total                                                                              0.0   24.6   28.0    31.4    36.1    34.4  187.8            F .
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                         34.4   76.3   97.6  101.1  16.8  104.1  822.6
=  = == =   ===
Tote I                                                                                    212.3   186.3  187.6   121.1   104.8   104.1  1020.4
- Values scaled by 1000.0 6/18/1996 16:02



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Asricultural InDut Infrastructure
Basic Seed and ftimal Health
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Qdantity                      Base Costs
Unit  1991 92-97 Total     1991  192  1993 94-96 98-97 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. 54dLab Equip.
.Sreinator           Unit      1    0    1        4.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0
Psychometer          Unit      2    0    2        0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5
Hydrometor           Unit      2    0    2        1.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.8
Hydrothermograph     Unit      8    0    3        4.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.6
Analyzer             Unit      1    0    1        0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5
Ventilation          Unit      1    0    1        2.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.5
Vitascope            Unit      1    0    1        1.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.9
Bag Closer           Unit      2    0    2        2.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.8
Balance Scale        Unit      3    0    a        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   .e0
Sub-Total                                         24.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  24.3
B. Seed Processing Equtp.
Dehumidifier        Unit       2    0    2        8.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.0
Seed Cleaner        Unit       1    0    1        a.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.6
Treatment Plant      Unit      1    0    1        9.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   9.1
Seed Dryer           Unit      1    0    1        8.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.4
Air Conditioner      Unit      1    0    1        8.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.8
_- - _ - - -- -- ------ -- - - _- - --_ - _ _--
Sub-Total                                         27.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  27.9
C. Seed Storage                    -    -    -        28.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  28.9
0. Foot & Mouth
Equipment Rehab      Unit     -    -    -         0.0  1S.0  20.0   0.0   0.0  85.0
Raw Materials        Unit     -    -    -         0.0   0.0  40.0  80.0   0.0 180.0
Sub-Total                                          0.0  15.0  80.0  60.0   0.0  195.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                   81.1  15.0  80.0  80.0   0.0  276.1
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff
Electro-Mechanic     Months    0   12   78        2.8   5.6   5.8   5.8   5.8  88.5
8. Social Charges                  -    -    -         1.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2  14.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     8.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9  51.1
== = === = _=
Total                                                 85.0  22.9  67.9  87.9   7.9 327.2
- Values :caled by 1000.0 6/18/1990 15:02



- 43-                                         ANNEX 3
Table 3
RitIC OF iCUA
"  9YA8 FI.8  CONTROL0
(U)
ustity                                         Base Costa
Unit 1 S91  9M    18  194  19   9-J  Total           199    1992   193   1994   1995 1999-97  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Regional Training Cen.
out ldtng            mg2       e  lW        0     00  a           isle      e.0  etae.s   e.o    0.0    o.9    8.0  288.6
FrndA?                                                                      o.e   2e.8   *.e   0.0    o.o    9.9   20.8
nct.3                                                                                                 -  -  -  -  -  90 . .9.0 38 oeg    e  o.e    8.3
Furr & Equip.        Unit     -      -     -     -     -     -      -       e.e    7.6   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    7.6
Paver Plant    Ur        tt   -  0                     -     -.e   1.6   9.8   9.8                             8.8   1e.e
@ar.a.               us         9189 a            8 0         e  smse       e.0   16.1   8.8      . o          9.9   16.8
Sub-Total                                                                    8.8  84.2    9.9   e.0    o.0    o.o  i0.2
6. Vehicles
Pick-UpS             Unoit     0      0     2     1     *     0      S      e.o    O.o  26.8  18.0   29.    o.e   66.9
Motore.ye            Unit      8      9    18   18   t1       a    88       9.0  09 .    22.9  22.0   22.0   0.0   96.9
Sub-Total                                                                    0.0   9.0  48.0  35.0   48.0   0.0  181.8
C. Audio - 'teau  Equip.
Video Casro          Unit      0      4     a     a     9     O     4       0.0   6.8   0.0    0.8   a.9    o.e    O.o
CaSsettes            Unit      0   2ee            a     0     9   21a       0.0    1.8   8.9   8.0    o.e g*g    1.g
V=d oRccorder        Unit      0      4     a     a     a     0     4       0.0   2.4   0.0    0.0    9.f0    00    2.4
TV Menttor           unit      0      4 *      0             *      4 *      .*0    8.2    00.   0.0    .e0    0 0    8.2
Generator           Uiit       e      4     0     a     0     0     4       0.0   2.4   9.9   9.9    0.0    0J.   2.4
Slide Projector      Unit      a      4     O     *     9     a     4       9.9   9.6      . 9    0.    9 0.    8.9    8.6
slen Csmrs           Unit      0      4     a     0     a     a     4       8.9    1.9   0.9   9.9    9.8    9.9    1.9
Overhed Project.     Unit      a      4     a     O     0     *     4       9.9   1.2   0.8    0. 0    0. 0 9.8    1.2
Projertor Scren      Unit      0    tO      0     9     8     9    tO       0.0   0.4   e.o   0.0    g.e   0.0    0.4
Sub-Total                                                                    0 0   1S 2    8.9    OJ    0.0   0.0  1S.2
O. Other Equipment
Black eards          Unit      a    29      9     a     0 O0    g           0.0   0.4    9.9   9.9    9.9    0.0   9.4
Draftsmn Tablo       unit      0      I     0     a     9     0     1       9.0   4.8   0.0    8.9    9.8    0.0    4.9
Small Equipment      Unit      0    is    is   1s   .8        a    48       9.9   1.8   1.8    1.9    0.0  090    4.6
Pamphlets            Unit      0      0  18e  8s    SW0           711e101   0.0    O.o   6.9   11.9  1t.0   9.8   85.8
Field Manule         Unit      0   19e      9     a     a     0   1t4       9.9   18.9   0.9   9.0    0.8    9.9   19.8
Offtri Equipment     Unlt     -      -     -     -    -      -     -        8.9   7.6   9.9   9.8    8.8    9.9    7.8
Sub-Total                                                                    9.9   23.6   .S  t8.0   1 5.  0 80    91.7
E. Training
raduato (Oversea)              8      2     2     9     9     o     4       9.8  40.0  40.8   9.9    9.8    9.9   99.9
Course (Over"e*)               O      1     1     a     0     0     2       9.8   18.9  1t.9   9.9    9.9    8.9   20.9
Ceurse (Loct)                  9      1     2     2     1     1     8       9.9   20.9  40.0  49.0   20.0  29.0  169.0
Sub-Tetal                                                                    0 0   7. 0 99.8   40.9   20.8   29.   26e.9
Total DiVESTMENT COSTS                                                             0 0  451 9  144 .    91.9   S8.9  28.0  811.1
I1. RECURRENT CST
A. Stafting
Supervisors          Ndnt.    9      6    11   24    eo    89o   1e         8.9   2.4   4.9    9.6   14.13  14.   59.6
Ext.ensieftiats      Meotteo   8    89  129   248   899  8ON   1478         .9.    9.8   85.2   79.4  185.6  185.6  431.1
Specilista K6not i                   9      6     9  0        a     6       8.0    0.0    2.6   9.9    9.9    9.9   2.9
Secreties ent           t      8    12    24    24    24   24   112         8.9    2.1   4.8    4.3    4.8    4.3  23.4
Support              booths    a    48    71   7n   na   71   498           g.e   5.3    9.e   s.9    *.0    8.0  46.2
Sub-Total                                                                    0.0   16.9   55.O   92.2  132.2  112.2  662 4
d. Social Charges,                 -           -                  -              .8   7.5   22.0  86.9   52.0   62.0  224.1
C. Vehicle OUt
Pick-Ups             unit      O     a      2     8     e     *    t0       0.0   9.0   3.4    6.1    6.6    9.S   84.8
Motorcycles          unit      8    e    tO   29    Be   t9           o 1N  9.9   9.    4.9    9.7   14.6   14.6  56.4
Sub-Total                                                                    9.9   9.9   .83   14.9   23.2   18.2   92 .
0. Office Opertion
General                        -     -     -     -     -     -     -        9.     9.9    5o    9.9    9.9    9.9  44.4
Electricity                   -            -     -     -           -                .       8     .6    9.6    g.e   2.5
Sub-Total                                                                    0.0   G.8    5.8   18.4    8.4  10.4  46.s
E. Events
field Osys          tOp        9 O          a     4     9    to    43       9.9   9.8    9.8    4.4  1t.9   18.6  47.6
mint - Fi-ld Days    Doa             9      a    62   194  1t    NO9        9.8  09.    9.9   14.4   29.6   48.7  14U.8
Oenentrattoe         Unit      *            a    62   m84   179   696       9.8   9.9   9.9    6.6   11.6   19.6  56.2
Group Visit.         Unit      a     8      a   so   we S4 1799  6969       9.9   8.9  o.9   2s.6   57.9   97.4  281.2
Sub-Tetal                                                                    9.9 9o.9       .    53.4  to7.s9  12.2  526.0
Tot l RECURRENT COSTS                                                              *.9  29.1  99.6  297.7  8.S  4aa.9 1462.6
-m~somm somo am~s  nam                -     -
Total                                                                            9.8  477.9  2114.   299.8  499.5  428.9 29".7
- Values sesled by 1969.8 9/19/1998 16S81



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Africultural Eztension
Agricultural Services Azeucv
Detailed Cost Tattle (USS$
Quantity             Base Costs
Unit  1991 92-97 Total      1991  92-97  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Building Upgrading
Milagro             1M2    408      0  400       23.8   o.a  23.0
El Triunfo           12    28S    0  286         16.4   5.0  16.4
Naranjito            112     80    a   80         4.8    O.0   4.6
Yaguachi             112    1SO     0   159       6.6   9.9   8.8
Sub-Total                                         52.7   5.0  62.7
=B. Vehicles
Pick-Ups             Unit    6    a    6         78.0   O.O  78.0
C. Furniture              Unit   -    -    -          18.4   9.0  18.4
0. Equipment              Unit   -    -    -          12.5   0.9  12.6
Total INESTMENT COSTS                                   161.6    O.0  161.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Vehicle CAM            Unit    6    6   42         10.8  10.8  72.1
8. Office Operation               -    -    -          0.0   2.0  12.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    10.3  12.   84.4
5 2=== =
Total                                                171.9  12.3  245.9
- Values scaled by 1000.0  6/18/1990  15:02



REPWUSC OF ECUAOR
LOER UAYAS FLOOD CaNTROL
PvdtiT: ~OrtInI~zat ion
ZetSe  C°ost a,,ble.&io
us,
Quantity                                          8MW Coots
UnIt   1991  1092  1993  1t94  190  96-97 Total         191  1992  1998  1994  199S  19I9 1997 Total
1.       T  COSTS
A. Vebielog
43D                 unit       6      a     O      O     O      O     a       *.0  64.0   0.0   0.o   0.0   o.o   o.o  64.0
Pick-UpS            Unit       0      4     o      e     0      0     4       e.g  S2.0   o.0   0.0   0._    0.0   0.0  52.0
Sub-Toetl                                                                      0.0  10B.0   0.0   P.0   0.0   0.0   6.6  106.0
S. Audio-Visual Equipment
Video Cmera         Unit       O      1     6      0     0      0     1       0.0   1.6   0.0   0.0   0.o e.0   e.g  '1.S
Video Cassettes     Unit       0   10t      0     0      0      0   100 t.0   0.6   0.0   O.0   o.e   6.0   0.0   0.6
Video Reconrd       Unit       0      4     0      0     a      0     4       0.0   2.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   6.6   0.0   2.4
TV lnitoe           unit       0      4     0      0     0      0     4       0.0   8.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   o0.   8.2
Generator           Unit       0      4     0      0     a      *     4       0.6   2.4   0.0   6.0   0.0   0.0   6.0   2.4
Tape Recorder       Unit       0      1     0      0     0      0     1       0.0   0.6   0.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.o   0.6
Slide Projector     Unit       0      4     a      0     a      0     4       0.0   0.6   6.0   o.0   0.0   0.0   0.o   o.0
Owbead Projector   Unit        0      4     0      0     0      0     4       0.0   1.2   0.0   6.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2
Projector Scroen    Unit       0      4     0      0     0      0     4       0.0   0.2   0.0   0.o   o.0   0.6   0.0   0.2
_____   ____.    - -__.   ___  ___. O-  _  _-    ._-- -
Sub-Total                                                                     9.0  12.B   o.0.  6.6   6.0 6.0   0.0  12.6
C. Othe Equipment
Block Boards        Unit       0      4     0      a     0      0     4       0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   o.6   0.0   6.0   o.1
brftenen Table      Unit       a      1     0      0     0      0     1       0.0   4.6   0.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.0
Pamphlet.           unit       o      o  1660      0     0      0  1O06       0.0   0.e   6.0   0.0   6.0   0.0   0.6   6.6               I
Small Equipment     Unit      -      -     -      -     -      -     -       0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   o.0   0.0   1.6 
-- -- -.--              -VI---U
Sub-Tote I                                                                    o.    6.1   5.0   0.6   0.0   0.0   o.0  10.1
0. Otfice Furnlture     Unit       -     -      -     -      -     -      -       0.0   7.0   0.0   0.0   6.0   0.0   0.6   7.0               I
Total IIEESTENT COSTS                                                                6.0  180.6   6.0   0.0   0.6   0.0   6.6  186.6
11. REOJCREIT COSTS
A. Staff
INCCA Technicians    lonth.    12    24    24    24    24    24   166        4.8   9.6   9.0   9.6   9.0   9.0   9.0  02.2
Rural evlpmnt Expert Month.    0    12    12    12    12    12    78          2.4   4.8   4.0   4.0   4.6   4.8   4.0  81.1
Prtessur.           Monthn    40    96    96    9S    90    90   024         14.1  20.2  20.2  20.2  26.2  20.2  28.2  183.1
Othor Specloillet   months     8     0      8     0      0      0    42       2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4  10.7
Sub-Total                                                                    21.0  44.9  44.9  44.9  44.9  44.9  44.9 293.0
b. Social Charge.                  -     -      -     -      -     -      -       9.6  10.0  18.0  10.0  18.0  16.0  18.0 117.2
C. Vehicl O8M
4WD                            6            a      3     S      8    10      0.0   0.6   6.0   0.0   6.6   0.0   8.0 89.9
Pick-UPS                       0     4      4     4      4     4    24       0.0   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   8.9  41.2
Sub-Total                                                                 .    ..0  18.6  13.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6  01.0
0. Promotionel Actliitleo
Seminars                       6      a    16    10      0     0    23       0.0   8.a  11.1  11.1   6.6   6.o   0.6  25.6
Meeting                        0     a    60   100    Go    Be   8e          0.0   0.0   6.S  11.1   6.6   6.6   6.6  8a.2
material                      -      -     -      -     -      -     -       0.6   0.8   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   0.6   5.0
Progrm                         0    20    60    so    so        0   170       0.0   0,2   0.0   0.8   0.0   0.0   6.0   1.9            Fm
Sub-Total                                                                     0.0   4.1  10.8  2a.0   7.2   6.8   6.S  06.6
Total RECURRNT COSTS                                                                88.1  80.6  94.6 100.2  08.0  68.0  61.9 660.8
Tote I                                                                           S8.1  211.0  99.0 106.2  08.8  08.6  01.9 692.4
- Valu, cled by 1600.6 S/18/19S0 ISMoS



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
ECUADOR
LOtWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
On-Farm Investment
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Quantity
Unit    1991   1992   1993   1994   199S   1996   1997  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. On-Farm Drainage         Ha      0     68    359   2503   2026   1243    420   6817
B. Cacao Renovation         Ha      0      6    201    438    438    436    236   1745
C. Banana Plantation        Ha      0      0    290   380    380       80       0   1ll0
0. Sugarcane                Ha      0      a      80    140    140     80       0    420
6/18/1990 1S:09
Base Costs
1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1998    1997   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. On-Farm Drainage              0.0      5.7    30.9   215.3   174.2   108.9   38.1   689.1
B. Cacao Renovation              0.0     0.0   223.1  484.0   484.0   484.0   282.0  1936.9
C. Banana Plantation             0.0     0.0  1603.7  1990.8  2101.4   442.4       0.0  8138.8
0. Sugarcane                     0.0     0.0    39.0    91.0    91.0    52.0       0.0   273.0
Total INVESTMENt COSTS              0.0      6.7  1898.7  2781.0  2850.6  1085.8   298.1  8917.3
8S=S====_== =5
Total                            0.0     5.7  1896.7  2781.0  2860.6  1085.3   298.1  8917.3
- Values scaled by 1000.0  8/18/1990  16:09



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
LOWER 6UAYAS FLOOD CtXTROL
Rrcultmrag DeVe1QPment
Coorainat on and T tnicat Ass stance
Detailed Cost Table  (US$)
Quantity                                                 Base Costs
Unit  1991  199  1993  1994   1995    1991997 Total        1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total
................................ .................. ........................ ..................................................... ... .... .....
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Technfeal Assistance
Agriculture Economist            3     6    12   12   12    6    3    54           48.0   96.0  192.0  192.0  192.0   96.0   48.0  864.0
Extensionfet (Agronomy)          0    2    5       5    5    5    0   22            0.0   29.0   72.5   72.5   72.5   72.5    0.0  319.0
Water Mgt. Specialfat            3     6    12   12   12    3    0   48            43.5   87.0  174.0  174.0  174.0   43.5    0.0  696.0
Resarch Agronomist               1    2    2       2    2    2       1   12        17.5   35.0   35.0   35.0   35.0   35.0   t7.5  210.'
Rural Sociologist                I     I    I      I    1    I    0    6           17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5    0.0  105.0
Other SpecialIsts                2     1    1    1    1    1    0    7             35.0   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5    0.0  122.5
Sub-Total                                                                          161.5  282.0  508.5  508.5  508.5  282.0   65.5 2316.5
B. Vehicles and Equipment
4WD                   Unit       2     2    2      0    0    0    0    6           36.0   36.0   36.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  108.0
Vehicle O&N                      2    4    6    6    6    6    6   36               4.0    8.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   72.0               Z-
Computers             Unit       3     0    2    0    0    0    0    5              9.0    0.0    6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.0
Sub-Total                                                                           49.0   44.0   54.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0  195.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                    210.5  326.0  562.5  520.5  520.5  294.0   77.5  2511.5
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff
Director              Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84                5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3    5.3   37.2
Extensionfst (Agronomy)Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84               4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   33.5
Extensionist (Methods) Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84               4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   33.5
Rural Sociologist     Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84                4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   33.5
Economist             Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84                4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   33.5
Institutional Expert  Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84                4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8   33.5
Secretary             Months   12   12   12   12   12   12   12   84                2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1   14.9
Drivers               Months   72    72   72    72   72   72   72  504             10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   69.7
Sub-Total                                                                           41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3   41.3  289.2
B. Social Charges                    -    -                  *    -    -    -           16.5   16.5   16.5   16.5   16.5   16.5   16.5  115.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                      57.8   57.8   57.8   57.8   57.8   57.8   57.8  404.9
Total                                                                                  268.3  383.8  620.3  578.3  578.3  351.8  135.3 2916.4
- Values scaled by 1000.0  10/2211990  13:09                                                                                                               isA



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
ORGANIZACIONES AGRICOLAS EN EL AREA OEL PROVECTO                                     -         3
NONBRE                          a g C T A R E A S                No, DE  eOCIos             PRONEOSO
lN1-      ACTUA-    VENDI-        INl-           ACTUA-          HAS/
CIALES    LES        OIDAS       CIALES           LES             SoCIO
.................................................................................................
Cristobal Colon               797       537        260           52             52              10
Mango Arracero              1.012       612        200           60             37              17
Flor del Progreso             220       100        120           16              6              17
Carlos i. Arosemena           630       348        282           42             20              17
El Mate                       784         0        784           24              0
Churute                       958       531        427           52             40              13
La Flora                      192                  1928)         12              0
Libertad de Churute           551       372                      19             14              27
4 1e Agosto                   700       420                      20             12              35
Cimalon                       189         0        189           12              0
Caputto                       101       101                      12             12               9
Agricola Setgica              220       220         -            37             22              10
Santa Isabel                  240       240                      11              7              34
Rosa Elvira                   246       160         86           24             24               7
La Puntilta                  300        30d                      46             46               7
La Union                      330       330                      36             40               8
Pay,                          314       314         *            42             40              11
19 de ayo                     364       364         -            28             26              14
Tierra at Campesino           400       400         -            80             75               5
Caimital                    1.000     1.000         -            40             40              23
Miranda Giron               1.001     1.001                      35             35              29
Rio Verde                   1.100     1.100                      80             20              14
Taura                       1.664     1.664                     170             74              23
San Mauricio                  140       140         -            17             10              14
Palo ALto                     181       181                      37             37               5
12 de Octubre                 161       161         -            26             24               7
Simon Bolivar                 504       283         2.2          45             24              11
Santa 9arbara.                184       184         *            21             21               9
Nueva Gloria                   60        60         -            17             14               4
P.J.montero                   170       170                      16             17              10
Patria Nueva                  122       122         -            27             15               8
19 de Agosto                  130       130         -            19             19               7
San Antonio                   160       160                      19             18               9
Santa Rosa 1                  368       368                      49             49               8
Santa Rosa 2                  346       346         -            43            43                8
San Jose                      120       120         -            34             10              12
Lucha y Progreso              310       310         -            32            22               14
Arrocera taguachl             302       202         10           11             11               9
La Lola                       161       161         -            35             22               7
ViLta Gladis                   42        42         -            11             11               4
22 de Abril                   176;      176         *            32             26               6
El Condor                     345       345         -            25             S2               7
Nueva Era                      30.7      30*7       -             8              8               4
Isle Rosa AmeLia              39         39         -           17             14               3
10 de Octubre                 183       183         -           22             15               12
Unidos Venceremoab)            33,4      33 4                    11             11               3
Rio Chimbo                    173       173         -            24             24               7
Agropecuaris                  322       322         -            69             69               5
CaAaveralb)
tOTAL                    18.0761    14.556,1  26.422          1.617          1.228
. .  .. .. .. . .. . . .  _. . . . .. . . . . .. . ............L......................................................
a)   La venta de to tiorra esta en procaso.
b)   Estoe son respectivamente Asociscion de Cacaoteros r Asoceeacon Agricola
Fuente: Encuentas CEDEGE-UASKONING AbrlU-Mayo 1989



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
ECUAIoR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Institutional Develoament Comoonent
Organization
1.          Appendix 1 shows the interinstitutional network for implementing
the project and carrying out the related agriculture and environmental
components. Project management will be carried out by of a special Project
Executing Unit (UCB) within CEDEGE, partly building on its existing functional
organization but largely new. UCB is being organized and staffed at a
level I') consistent with project administration. The necessary technical
assistance would be provided under the project '). Organized and staffed as
described, UCB should be a strong entity for project implementation (including
infrastructure, agricultural development plan and environment and
institutional development). Both UCB organization and staffing have been
designed to help CEDEGE ensure: (a) adequate interinstitutional relationships
(as shown in the corresponding diagram (Appendix 2) and in the description of
how these relationships will function (Appendix 1)) based on explicit
agreements already discussed during project preparation, to be signed prior to
June 30, 1991 (see para 3.20); (b) acceptable and timely flow of funds (GOE,
the Bank, and the Dutch Government) to the various implementing agencies,
coordinated by and through CEDEGE; (c) appropriate action taken in time for
implementing institutional strengthening activities (such as technical
assistance and training), for UCB and other implementing agencies' management
and staff.
Institutional Canacitv Assessment
2.          During project preparation, a careful institutiorql capacity
analysis was carried out by CEDEGE's staff for assessing req rements for
strengthening all agencies involved. Based on project object-.ves and proposed
strategies and resources that would be made available through the project,
work programs have been disaggregated into tasks to describe how the sharing
of institutional responsibilities would work. A review of the capacity of the
agencies involved to implement such work programs helped identify
institutional capacity gaps (ICGs) from the legal, organizational,
administrative, and skills viewpoints.
3.          The sectoral legislation does not provide a clear definition of
institutional responsibilities for all infrastructure and agriculture
development-related activities; this must be solved through interagency
agreements as provided in this component. Furthermore, the implementation of
the Agriculture Development Plan requires that farmers should be organized in
I/    UCB will include 68 professionals, 22 technicians, and 60 support staff,
organized into 3 divisions (institutional development; infrastructure
programming and control; finance and administration); and 4 departments
(agriculture development and environment; feasibility studies and design;
construction; and operation and maintenance).
2,1   About 710 m/m of technical assistance would be provided in total (see para
8 below for details).



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
committees to operate and maintain farm-level infrastructure in addition to
participating in local consulting committees in charge of the preparation of
agriculture plans, monitoring and evaluating their implementation, and
approving related budgets. There is no national legal provision allowing this
kind of committee to be created, although many have been spontaneously created
in the past. Traditionally, CEDEGE and the Ministry of Agriculture have
developed reasonable interinstitutional relationships, in particular in
implementing other projects such as the Daule Peripa. However, relationships
between the Ministry of Agriculture and agencies with which organizational
links are not well established have resulted in serious capacity gaps that
might threaten project implementation. The most serious hurdles in this field
occur between national extension, research, animal health, and regional
programs of the same kind in agricultural development action plans.
Distribution of roles and sharing of institutional responsibilities are not
explicit or clear. Otber interinstitutional-related capacity gaps include
agricultural credit programs handled by the National Development Bank (BNF),
which does not accept the intervention of any other agency. Finally, overlaps
are also found in extension activities carried out by PROTECA and ASAs.
4.          Implementing agencies' orcanization also contributes to weaken
overall institutional capacity. In general, all implementing agencies lack
adequate explicit procedures and norms, let alone organization manuals. Staff
do not feel they have clear-cut terms of reference and are often given
different functions for which they have not been necessarily prepared. This
creates a lack of commitment and continuity for certain functions resulting in
lower performance. Personnel tolicies for involved agencies are restrictive
due to lack of budget that would help match growing activities, especially in
agriculture extension, farmers' organizations, and in animal health programs
of the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture. Furthermore,
field work is difficult because of lack of adequate incentives. Allowances do
not even cover time actually worked in the field, and transportation is
available only where farmers cooperatives are equipped and/or where public
transportation exists and field workers willing to use it.
S.          Finally, skill  aaps have been identified at all levels:
professional staff, technicians, support staff, and beneficiaries. At the
administrative level system administration, computer-related skills and
support staff skills are weak or missing. At the professional/technical level
of CEDEGE, needed skills are related to catchment area management and
conservation; operation and maintenance of automatic hydrometeorological
networks; construction supervision; drainage; early warning systems and
prevention of flood peaks; operation and maintenance of dikes; flood control
and drainage systems; geotechniques; geomorphology; land-titling; rural
development planning; and monitoring water quality control. Similarly, skill
gaps have been identified in efficiently carrying out applied research and
extension (within the PDA) and in the environmental activities. All skill
gaps would be reexamined and detailed measures would be recommended to
mitigate or eliminate them during the institutional strengthening process,
planned to start as soon as the loan becomes effective.
The Project-Supported Institutional Development Component
6.          Obiective.  PSIDC's inputs have been designed so as to eliminate
and/or mitigate identified capacity gaps described above. This will be done
through: (a) administrative measures taken by GOE; (b) new management and
organization processes established with the help of technical assistance
including related vehicles and equipment; and (c) skill upgrading activities
for all levels of staff. Total cost of PSIDC would amount to about US$18.4
million.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
7.          ICGs to be Addressed by Administrative Measures.  All legal
hurdles, largely due to lack of specificity and/or clarity of related laws and
decrees, and the lack of interinstitutional arrancements for project-related
tasks are to be solved by the signature of agreements between agencies and/or
with CEDEGE's UCB. Thus, all involved administrative units would know: (a)
the respective agencies' roles; (b) how their relationships are going to work;
and (c) what are their respective work programs, disaggregated into detailed
tasks. Some organization problems internal to implementing agencies would be
solved by decisions made at the management level of these agencies. This is
true for CEDEGE, which will create UCB and would define acceptable financial
flows from the center and towards implementing agencies. It is also the case
of INIAP and PROTECA, in which envisaged measures would strengthen the
existing organization structure and would improve research/extension
relationships and coherence. Furthermore, the expected decentralized mandate
given to CEDEGE-UCB would help solve many of the identified ICGs related to
personnel policy problems. Lack of incentives for field workers (such as
extension agents) would be solved partly through ad hoc allocations specified
in interagency agreements.
S.          ICGs to be Addressed through Technical Assistance.  About 710 m/m
of technical assistance are included in PSIDC to help remove all identified
ICGs related to highly technical skills and to the institutional environment
in which the project is going to be implemented. This would support project
management and organization, monitoring and evaluation (about 108 m/m) and
substantially increase technical skills and organization for both
infrastructure design and construction supervision (179 m/m) operation and
maintenance (91 m/m), preparation of the master plan studies (76 m/m),
environmental activities (107 m/m) and acricultural development (149 m/m).
This TA has been designed in such a way that the specialists would transfer
new systems and procedures and install efficiently the institutional capacity
required not only for the achievement of project objectives but also for the
longer-term sustainability of their corresponding benefits. This subcomponent
would be financed partly by the Dutch Government (for PDA and the upper
watershed environmental activities)i and for all the other activities by the
Bank. Its cost amounts to US$12.6 million for specialists and US$4.0 million
for related vehicles and equipment. Specialists financed by the Bank would be
identified and hired in accordance with the corresponding Bank guidelines.
9.          ICGs to be Addressed throuah Trainina Activities.  The training
subcomponent would help eliminate identified skill gaps. Administrative
training activities including computer-related courses, would be delivered to
about 74 CEDEGE professional. Most of CEDEGE's support staff skills would
also be upgraded. Professional-level training would be delivered in courses
of seven to 90 days as early as possi.ble during PSIDC implementation, which
would start soon after project appraisal. Other implementing agencies' staff
would also be trained, mainly for the agriculture development plan. This
would include 90 professionals in all aspects of agricultural extension in 30-
to 40-day courses; two would seek a master's degree in extension abroad and
three researchers would also get a master's degree abroad (two years).
Finally, about 3,000 farmers would be trained for the introduction of modern
farming practices resulting from improved flood control and drainage. Total
cost of training activities amounts to about US$1.0 million.
PSIDC Imolementation
10.         PSIDC would be implemented by a special UCB section ("Unidad de
Desarrollo Institucional") that would be headed by an organizational
specialist and staffed with two professionals in training, monitoring, and
evaluation. This division would also be responsible for the institutional
development function, that is, the analysis of the institutional environment
in which the project is going to be implemented so as to identify anticipated



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
problems and formulate alternative solutions to help project management make
adequate and timely decisions. This unit would use other UCB'e as well as
CEDEGE's administrative and technical support to implement its own tasks and
help ensure amooth interinstitutional relationships as defined in the various
agreements to be signed between implementing agencies and with CEDEGE. To
help this unit incorporate modern organization and management tools and
processes, specific technical assistance would be delivered in the form of 12
m/m of an organizational specialist (included in the TA program described in
para 8 above) who would start work as early as possible after loan
effectiveness.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Implementina Institutional Universe Matrix
Interinstitutional relationships are to be formalized in agreements to be
signed between every implementing agency and CEDEGE which would centralize
coordination and project management functions. The following matrix
identifies involved agencies, their administrative units and respective roles.
The codes refer to boxes in the project interinstitutional relationship map
which is in the project file.
Administrative Unit in Charge                   Implementing Role/Function
CEDEGE: Directorio                             Policy Making
Presidencia                            Responsible for Implementation
Direccion Ejecutiva                    Planning, Budgeting & Supervision
Comite de Licitaciones                 Procurement Functions
Asesoria Juridica                      Legal Counselling
Direccion Recursos Humanos             Hiring Staff
Direccion Administ-ativa               Equipment Imports
Direccion Financiera                   Approve Budgets, Financial Flows
Planificacion                          Overall Planning/Cost Recovery
UNIDAD CUENCA BAJA:  Direccion                 Project Coordination
Desarrollo Institucional               Implementation of Inst. Dev. Comp.
Control Obras Fisicas                  Civil Works Supervision
Administracion/Finanzas                Administration & Financial Control
Desarrollo Agrop./Medio Ambiente       Plan. & Coord. Ag. Dev. & Env. Act.
Estudios y DiseAo                      Studies and Design
Construccion de Obras                  Construct. Implem. Revision & SPN
Operacion y Mantenimiento              Project Operation and Maintenance
Junta de Beneficiarios                 Target Population Representation
Comite Consultivo                      Agric. Development Committee
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DEL ESTADO                Financial Control and Audit
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO                     Development Financing
SUBSECRETARIA DE CREDITO PUBLICO              Fiscal, Debt, Counterpart Funds
DIRECCION NACIONAL AVALUOS Y CATASTROS        Property Evaluation, Cadaster
SUBSECRETARIA DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE              Environment Aspects-National Level
DIRECCION NACIONAL DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE         Water Quality Monitoring
INS. ECUATORIANO REFORMA AGRARIA Y COLONI.  Land Acquisition, Titling
SUBSECRETARIA FORESTAL Y RECURSOS HUMANOS    Forestry (upper catchment) Monit.
CEDEGE                                        Ecological Reserve Administration
SUBSECRETARIA COSTA Y REGION INSULAR          Coord. of Regional Dev. Activities
AGENCIAS DE SERVICIO AGROPECUARIO             Agricultural Extension Services
PROGRAMA TECNOLOGIA AGROPECUARIA              Agricultural Research Support
DIRECCION PROVINCIAL DES. AGROPECUARIO        Cooperatives and Marketing
DIRECCION TECNICA DE GANADERIA                Animal Products Development
DIRECCION TECNICA SANIDAD ANIMAL              Animal Health Services
INSTITUTO NACIONAL CAPACITACION CAMPESINA    Farmer Training for Rural Develop.
PROGRAMA DE ARROZ                             Rice Production Policy & SPN
PROGRAMA DE CACAO                             Cacao Production Policy & SPN
MUNICIPIOS (6)                                Cost Recovery Intermediaries
BENEFICIARIOS                                 Project Beneficiaries
COOPERATIVAS                                  Cooperatives
ORGANIZACIONES NO GUBERNAMENTALES             Environment Monitoring



MAPA DE RELACIONES INTERINSTITUCIONALES
_   _      T                         "t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mo .~c                      0m.m
''  1  '   '          -tar .                                    .a
Sc-1
l,.. Oa L .:. A.                  I          n      1
wn,1I



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
ECVADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Environmental Component
Introduction
1.          The Lower Guayas Flood Control Project is a first step within the
context of a broader program to develop the Lower Guayas Basin. It has been
designed to reduce damage caused by annual floods of three rivers: Bulubulu,
Boliche, and Taura. Depending on the severity, between 36,000 ha and 184,000
ha are inundated every year and seriously affect the lives of about 187,000
people, causing crop production losses and damaging existing roads and
drainage systems at a high cost to the economy. Moreover, floods in the area
increase human health problems such as intestinal disorders resulting from
contamination of water used for domestic purposes, and malaria resulting from
favorable breeding conditions for vectors that carry this and other diseases.
The extent of damage is dramatically enhanced during periods of exceptionally
heavy rains such as the 1992/83 period when about 185,000 ha were flooded.
2.          During project preparation an environmental impact assessment
(EIA) of the proposed project development activities was carried out in clove
collaboration with official agencies and local non-governmental institutions.
Copy of the full EIA report is available in the project file. Engineering
design and project components have been adjusted to reflect findings and
recommendations of the EIA. While as designed the project would have minor
direct ecological impacts it is also felt that it would improve the ecological
and socioeconomic environment to mitigate such impacts.
Environmental Setting (Without Proiect)
3.          Lower Guavas Basin.  The area is a poorly drained alluvial plain
formerly covered with forests and swamps and is considered to have been of
significant biodiversity value. Little is left of the original vegetation
because to a large extent it has been cleared for agricultural and livestock
activities. With few exceptions, the entire area is under some form of
exploitation, except for part of the mangrove area and part of the El Churute
Reserve.
4.          The climate and weather, inadequate drainage of poorly permeable
soils, reduced carrying capacity of the river system, and intense
deforestation of the upper watersheds, determine the extent of the annual
inundations of the area. In addition, existing roads and dikes also affect
the natural surface hydrology. Although the temperature varies little
throughout the year (the average annual temperature is 24.80C, ranging from
23.50C in July to 26.1c in April), the climate is highly seasonal because of
the rainfall pattern. About 80% of the rains fall between January and April
(averaging about 1,355 mm). The wettest month is March while August is the
driest. The excess of water in the rainy season causes yearly floods. In
years of extraordinary rainfall the existing river system cannot carry the
extra volume and overflows, with devastating effects in urban and rural areas.
The extent of damage depends on the timing, intensity and duration of the
floods.
5.          Flooding in the Lower Guayas River Basin is a natural phenomenon
which has been occurring regularly throughout recorded history. Most recent
data refers to major floods occurring since 1973. From this data it ts



- 56 -
ANNX 5
Page 2 of 7
assumed that major floods such as the ones in 1973 and 1982/1983 occur with a
frequency of every 25 or 50 years. While the 1984/1985 and 1986/1987 type
floods tend to occur every two to four years.
6.          From the standpoint of land use the area can be divided into three
zones: The first is the Piedemonte (foothills) which represents a transition
zone between the upper and lower watersheds and it lies between 50 and 200 mt
above sea level. There are about 90,000 ha of poor soils thus agriculture is
limited to subsistence farming. Second is the Central Zone, by far the
largest (about 170,000 ha), which is occupied by agricultural and livestock
activities, and by urban centers (total population about 220,000) such as El
Triunfo and Milagro. The main crops are sugarcane, bananas, cacao, coffee and
pastures. In general, the degree of agricultural technology used varies from
medium to high in plantation-type crops such as sugarcane, bananas and cacao,
and from low to medium among other farming systems. About 27% of the area
employing improved technologies has irrigation systems and receives
applications of fertilizers and pesticides. The land has little gradient and
is thus the most affected by flooding. Although there are dikes along the
rivers that run through it, these are of insufficient capacity and break often
because of poor maintenance. Third are the wetlands of about 80,000 ha
(permanent and seasonal) including the mangroves. The former are partially
utilized by subsistence farmers growing rice under traditional methods and
raising dual-purpose livestock. The contamination of wetlands by polluted
water affects their role as a buffer for the mangroves trapping contaminants
and sediment. In the mangrove area permits have been granted to use about
9,000 ha for the establishment of shrimp farming, which is very important for
the economy since it is the second most important export commodity after oil.
Excessive use of pesticides and the expanding trend of shrimp ponds play an
important role in diminishing the biodiversity value of this zone.
Ecologically, the wetlands and mangroves form the most critical area of the
Lower Guayas Basin.
7.          Although part of the area of influence of the project, the El
Churute Reserve is treated in this report as a separate zone. The Reserve
comprises about 23,000 ha of mangroves on the eastern side and a semicircle of
six outcropping hills on the western side at the bottom of which is the El
Jirador Lagoon. The Cimalon Hill is the least affected by human interventions
and constitutes one of the last vestiges of dry tropical forests in the
western part of Ecuador. On the other hills are signs of periodic logging for
firewood or for lumber for repairing houses.
8.          The lagoon comprises about 800 ha of which about half is under
water during normal flooding. Of the other half about 80 ha constitute
permanent swamps and the rest (320 ha) is under natural pastures and brush.
It contains a great number of bird species of which at least one, the Horned
Screamer, is reportedly near extinction in Ecuador. There are also species of
monkeys like the Howler Monkey and various species of reptiles.
9.          Since 1976 the population of the lagoon has remained more or less
constant. Since that time, and prior to the legal establishment of the
reserve (July 1979) some 24 families were granted land titles to about 320 ha
located mostly around the lagoon. Because there is minimal protection of the
reserve, settlers make unrestrictive use of the lagoon area and pasture-land
to graze livestock and grow subsistence crops. Construction of the road from
Boliche to Puerto Inca divided the lagoon into two parts and interrupted the
natural drainage. The lagoon is still largely open and water hyacinth, which
is a problem for most water bodies, has not invaded much of its surface.
Water supply to the lagoon originates from watersheds in the surrounding
forested hills rather than from surface drainage or spills from rivers. The
water level in the dry period is largely determined by the level of the
culverts in the road, which act as a dike and prevent natural drainage. In



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
this regard the road has probably had a favorable impact on the ecosystem of
the lagoon by preventing full drainage as is the case on the part on the other
side of the road which dries out in the dry season.
10.         Within the perimeter of the reserve and west of the lagoon in the
mangrove area there are some 1,800 ha under commercial shrimp production.
Reportedly the majority of these operations were established during the early
1970. However, some expansion has occurred and new farms have been
established during the past decade, in spite of existing legislation
protectirng the mangrove areas. Mangroves are also suffering from illegal
cutting for the construction and/or expanding of ponds for shrimp farming and
for other uses. In addition, other negative impacts resulting from shrimp
farming include water pollution with organic wastes resulting from the
periodic cleaning of ponds, interruption of the normal water flow by the
construction of dikes and roads and by the recycling of water pumped into
ponds. Recent studies indicate mangroves in the area are currently under
attack by a species of caterpillar (Oiketicus kirby) previously uncommon to
the area which is causing widespread defoliation. It is not clear whether
this is the result of excessive pesticide use in nearby areas which is killing
the natural enemies of this insect or from water contamination weakening the
mangroves natural resistance to such attacks.
11.         In general, water contamination is a serious problem in the Lower
Guayas Basin. The main sources are: (i) untreated sewerage and solid waste
from urban centers; (ii) industrial pollutents from sugar and paper mills and
alcohol distilleries; and (iii) agricultural, mainly runoff containing
agrochemicals and effluents from slaughter houses. Data results of analysis
done during project preparation (1988-1989) show that nearly all major rivers
receive pollutants from one or more sources. Reportedly water samples from
the Culebras river show the highest degree of contamination from E. Coli and
the El Ruidoso river from heavy metals such as zinc and lead. Analysis of
water samples from the El Mirador Lagoon did not detect any contamination.
12.         In short, the biodiversity value of the area and the
sustainability of shrimp and fish farming are negatively affected by: water
pollution, deterioration of mangroves by accelerated expansion of shrimp
ponds, illegal logging and farming activities in the Reserve, and excessive
use of pesticides.
Upper Watershed (Cuenca Alta)
13.         Flooding of the project area is partially caused by deforestation
and unsustainable land use in the upper watershed region. This causes
increased floods and erosion, which in turn results in the continued
sedimentation of riverbeds and reduction of the rivers' carrying capacity.
The type of crops grown in this region varies according to the altitude, but
in general the tendency is for cultivation of single annual crops. In the
areas where farmers use traditional farming methods without fertilizers land
is usually abandoned without vegetation cover when it is no longer fertile.
This causes serious soil erosion problems.
14.         Reforestation of the Cuenca Alta is often suggested as one of the
remedial actions to control flooding and halt soil erosion and sedimentation
in the Lower Guayas Basin. For years such actions have been strongly
supported by all concerned; however, little if anything has been done about
it. In any case, there is a general consensus that while reforestation is
urgently needed it will not prevent flooding in the project area completely.
Before widespread deforestation took place in the upper watershed, the Lower
Guayas Basin flooded regularly as a natural phenomenon due to the geography of
the area. It is estimated that reforestation would reduce peak floods by
about 20%.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
15.         The initial proposal of the Pre-Feasibility Study to control
flooding contemplated the construction of a combination of dikes and
flood-relief channels (by-passes). Regarding bypasses it considered four
alternatives one of which would use the El Mirador Lagoon as a temporary
reservoir from where a channel would carry the overflow to the Guayas River.
A complement to the dike-bypass combination would be a program to improve main
and secondary drains.
16.         To determine the potential environmental impact of each of the
alternatives proposed an impact assessment was commissioned by the GOE in May
1989. For this purpose CEDEGE, the official entity responsible for project
preparation, in collaboration with HASKONING, the Dutch consulting firm
assisting the GOE in this endeavor under a bilateral agreement, and with the
support of DINAMA (National Directorate for Environment), organized a
multidisciplinary team, which included representatives from local NGOs such as
Fundacion Flora y Fauna, Fundacion IDEA, and Fundacion Natura.   Also
represented was Guayaquil University. Throughout the process of the study the
group submitted progress reports to the Bank and other interested entities
such as USAID.
17.         The scope of the assessment included an overview of the current
(without project) environmental situation in the Lower Guayas Basin and in the
upper watersheds, and an in-depth study of potential impacts of each of the
project components such as the flood control and drainage systems contemplated
and the agricultural development program. Particular attention was given to
potential adverse impact on natural ecosystems such as the El Churute Reserve
and the mangroves.
18.         Other areas of concern included the potential increase of water
contamination resulting from more intense use of agrochemicals under improved
farming practices and from soil erosion and sedimentation during the
construction stage of the project.
19.         Summary of ZIA Findinas and Reconmendations.  Recommendations were
formulated based on an analysis which identified 39 impacts and 21 variables.
An impact or combination of them can be positive or negative. Each
combination was assigned a rank and weight according to the Leopold Matrix,
and, where required, mitigating measures have been recommended.
20.         Bypass.  As a result of intensive consultations between the EIA
team and the designing engineers, the alternative finally 2elected would not
use the El Mirador Lagoon as an attenuating reservoir so as not to alter
existing environmental conditions of the flora and fauna there. Instead the
original alignment was changed so that water would be discharged in a seasonal
wetland from where it would drain over a wide area into the mangroves. This
alternative has the least impact, since at present this wetland area already
drains into the mangroves during the wet season. As designed, during peak
floods when the bypass is in operation more water would flow through the
wetland into the mangroves.
21.         Conveying the bypass water through the wetland has the twin
advantages of acting as a buffer to prevent contaminants and sediments from
reaching the mangroves, and absorbing the eroding forces of the discharge
flowing from the bypass.
22.         El Churute Reserve.  The Reserve would not be affected by the
bypass alternative selected; however, when flood measures become operational
it is possible that there would be less backup of water in the lagoon. This
would happen as a result of less flooding in the adjacent flood plain to the



- 59 -
ANNEX S
Page 5 of 7
west of the road with which the lagoon water is connected at present through
culverts in the road. Thus, the EIA has recommended a hydrological study of
the lagoon to determine what possible engineering measures could be
implemented to prevent drainage.
23.         Moreover, the EIA recognizes that under present administrative
conditions maintaining integrity of the Reserve is questionable, since
resources for its upkeep and management are almost nonexistent. Thus, it
recommends the preparation of a management plan and reinforcing DINAF with
additional staff and training. This plan should include specific actions to
enforce protection and to foster scientific research.
24.         Sedimentation.  It is forecast that with flood control measures in
place sedimentation will tend to diminish. What impact this would have on the
productivity of soils under crops is highly speculative since it depends on
the type of sediment deposited. There are already considerable differences in
the soils of the flooded area and fertility ranges from low to high.
Nevertheless, the EIA recommends that analysis of silt deposits be included as
part of the monitoring system of the project.
25.         Water Pollution.  Flood control is expected to promote more
development of the area and as a consequence water pollution from all sources
is expected to increase. Therefore, the XEA recommends that sectoral
authorities be made aware of the problem and be encouraged to enforce existing
regulations. In addition, the EIA recommendL establishing a comprehensive
water quality monitoring program as part of the execution of a proposed master
plan for the Lower Guayas Basin.
26.         Aarochemicals.  Flood control and the opportunities offered by the
project would make more land available for agricultural and livestock
activities. This, accompanied by technical assistance and access to credit,
would promote the use of pesticides and fertilizers and, unless controlled, it
would contribute to existing river water contamination. Ths EIA recommends
carrying out a diagnosis on the use of agrochemicals in the area with special
emphasis on proposing measures to promote the use of integrated pest
management and the enforcement of regulations prohibiting the use of
pesticides that have been banned in other countries. Moreover, it supports
the technical assistance program built into the project design to promote
adequate and efficient use of agrochemicals.
Environmental ComDonent
27.         The recommendations of the EIA have been incorporated into the
Preparation Report. Thus, the proposed component supports and reflects what
is proposed in that report. In addition, it enhances aspects that appraisal
of the project revealed as needing reinforcement.
28.         Institutional Strengthening.  The degree of success in
implementing the project in a way that is environmentally sound would depend
to a large extent on the institutional capacity of the apex as well as the
other implementing institutions. The main entities responsible for the
implementation of this component would be CEDEGE and DINAF. Details about
project measures to strengthen CEDEGE are indicated in detail in the
Institutional Development component. Thus, within the Project Unit already
established in CEDEGE, the Division would be reinforced with the recruitment
of specialists in the areas of ecology, environmental engineering, geology,
forestry, and ervironmental legislation. Moreover, staff training and
seminars would also be provided. This division would be responsible for
coordinating and supervising environmental actions. In this endeavour it
would seek the collaboration of local NGos.



- 60 -
ANNEX S
Page 6 of 7
29.         DINAF, and more specifically the office in Guayaquil (Distrito
Forestal del Guayas), is responsible for the administration, management,
protection and conservation of El Churute Reserve through its Division of
Reserves and Natural Areas (DIRENA). As currently organized, however, it is
unable to perform any of its functions since it has only one staff at the
professional level plus seven "park guards" to protect the Reserve's 35,000
ha. The Reserve includes rivers, forests, swamps and mangroves. moreover,
the staff lacks basic equipment for inspection such as motorboats and
motorcycles, and has no facilities to eat and sleep. In addition, DINAF does
not have budgetary resources to conduct any studies or to establish a data
base inventory of the Reserve's biodiversity.
30.         Under the project DIRENA's staffing would be expanded to include
four specialists in the areas of conservation, biology, forestry, and
education/promotion. The number of park guards would be increased to 17, of
which seven live within the Reserve since they are members of the families
that have legal land titles. The idea is to integrate these families in the
conservation activities and thus to discourage unnecessary logging and burning
by them.
31.         Under the project, about US$350,000 would be made available to
DINAF for the procurement of vehicles, equipment, and tools such as
motorboats, four wheel-drive cars, motorcycles, communications and video
equipment. In addition, the project would finance the construction of office
and housing facilities. These investments would complement those planned
under a different program by Fundacion Natura using Debt-for-Nature Swap
funds.
32.         El Churute Reserve.   The administration and protection of El
Churute Reserve must be based on a comprehensive management plan to be
prepared under the project by DINAF with assistance from appropriate experts.
It was agreed at appraisal that pertinent terms of reference would be prepared
by DINAP in collaboration with local NGOs and submitted to the Bank not later
than December 31, 1990. A final version of the Management Plan should be
ready no latter than June 30, 1991.
33.         To further assist in the protection of the Reserve the project
would finance the delimitation of the entire perimeter with special emphasis
in identifying the exact location of existing shrimp farms so as to control
and prevent further expansion. Delimitation would be carried out under
contract with CLIRSEN (Centro de Levantamiento Integrados de Recursos
Naturales por Sensores Remotos), which already has obtained the basic
satellite information of the area. A detailed contract proposal should be
submitted to the Bank no latter than June 30, 1991.
34.         Additional works in the Reserve to be carried out under the
project are the construction/improvement of pedestrian roads and trails, and
the installation of signs and information stations for visitors. It is
possible that the Management Plan would identify other investments that may be
needed. Their consideration for financing under the project would be done at
the time of the proposed midterm review.
35.         Studies.  Knowledge of environmental aspects of the project area
and specifically of the areas with fragile ecosystems is limited. Although
there are on-going studies about coastal resources of the country there is a
lack of research on the complex food chain of the mangroves' ecosystem and of
the human-created factors that may be affecting it. Similarly, although there
is much talk about reforestation of the upper watershed (Cuenca Alta) little
is known about species of trees that farmers living in these area may be



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 7
willing to plant based on quick return on investment. As to the problem of
water contamination, although the sources are known, no alternative solutions
to correct the problem have been offered.
36.         To remedy this lack of basic information on critical environmental
problems, under the project the following studies would be carried out under
contract either by public or private institutions. These studies should be
completed according to the following time schedules
(a)   Management Plan for El Churute Reserve:  June 30, 1991
(b)   Water contamination:  Sources, Solutions:  December 31, 1991
(c)   Diagnosis about the use of pesticides:  December 31, 1991
(d)   Market Demand for Tree Species with Potential for Reforestation:
June 30, 1992
(e)   Management Plan for Guayas Estuary:  June 30, 1992
(f) Management Plan for Upper Watershed: December 31, 1992
37.         In total, 107 m/m of technical assistance would be provided for
environmental activities:  34 m/m for the Upper Watershed studies and 73 m/m
for the Guayas Estuary. Its cost amounts to US$1.9 million for specialists
and US$0.8 million for vehicles and equipment. Training (local and overseas)
would be available to the CEDEGE and DINA" staff dealing with project-related
environmental activities.
Monitorina and Evaluation
38.         The activities of M&E would be carried out by the Project Unit
with the assistance of the participating institutions. At appraisal it was
agreed that CEDEGE would seek the collaboration of local N3Os to monitor
environmental impact. In turn NGOs agreed, in principle, during appraisal to
form a Consultative Group with representatives from the NGOs that participated
in the review of the EIA for purposes of ensuring that EIA's recommendations
are being followed. Under the prc3ect CEDEGE would design a network of sites
in the project area to collect water bamples to detect contamination and to
propose control measures. CEDEGE authorities have agreed to provide
logistical support to them during supervision activities. Key indicators
would include: water quality, rates of sedimentation, presence of pesticide
residues in river water, completion of the studies to be done under the
project, and progress of the activities plan for the Reserve.



Project Implenientatlon Schedule
'991             1992             1993              1994              9+95             1998             1997
__ E                                      JE  ~IthI~iL ITiib ___E _U  _Th_
A.ctMiWoes
1. CMIWors.
Flod Control
*Land AcqRison-
p    ngd ProqawloatIon                                             -
- Flnal Designs
ConsttIon
yass 3                                                                       . . .         e
-Bypass I
S yas 2
Nart  Nwal Drains
-       aodShtckues
- Flood Contrl for Sedments
Drain   bImvemnwtt
* Sector                                              -
* Setor 2                                          ,-                                                                    -           -..        _
2. §qvoft   Adcies
Agrcuta Developnent Plan (PDA)
Pretwamlon Aethiss ,a
POX lnWlnwrbXon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ..*.. *.....***
Environmrenal Prom  and
Masr Plan
- Guayas Estua,y Management Plan
- Upper Guayas Watershod Management Plan                                         ......  ..  .....
- Lower Guayas Basln Master Plan                                          -      _                        ...
InstitdonalStrengtenn                         .........   .........   ..............                      ......    *..*.....
Landflng
OperatIon and Maintenance                               -
Technial As _itance
Flood Control
Dralnage Irmprovement            .       . ......   *** .
- Agrcultnal Deveopment Plan         .     ....                *** * .  * * * .
EnvironnIealApoAts p........                                                                                                        *..u.oe.. ....     ....
Train   and Technology Tranfer                                                  . .-_.___...
EkA"4744S



- 63 -                                     ANNEX 7
ECUADOR
LOVER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursement      Cumulative      Balance of
PY End of Semester       Durina Semester    Amount             Loan
FY 1991
June 30, 1991                     2.0 a/          2.0             57.0
FY 1992
December 31, 1991                 1.1              3.1            55.9
June 30, 1992                     1.6              4.7            54.3
FY 1993
December 31, 1992                 1.4              6.1            52.9
June 30, 1993                     2.6             8.7             50.3
FY 1994
December 31, 1993                 5.6            14.3             44.7
June 30, 1994                     5.9            20.2             38.8
FY 1995
December 31, 1994                 8.1            28.3             30.7
June 30, 1995                     8.0            36.3             22.7
FY 1996
December 31, 1995                 5.6            41.9             17.1
June 30, 1996                     5.1            47.0             12.0
FY 1997
December 31, 1996                 3.6            50.6              8.4
June 30, 1997                     3.2            53.8              5.2
FY 1998
December 31, 1997                 2.9            56.7              2.3
June 30, 1998                    1.3             58.0              1.0
FY 1999
December 31, 1998                 1.0            59.0              0.0
a/ Initial deposit into the Special Account.



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Tabl 1
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Proiect Comwonents by Year
Base Cost.                         Total
991  1992  1993  1994  199S  1996  1997  US$  US$
A. Flood Control
1. Bypass and Dikes             0.9   8.6  13.3   5.6   1.7   0.9   0.8  31.7 31.7
2. Roads and Bridges             .0 0.0   0.3   1.7   2.8   2.7   1.0   8.5  8.5
Sub-total                         0.9   8.6  13.6   7.2   4.6   3.6   1.8  40.1 40 1
B. Drainage                       0.4   2.2   1.0   3.2   1.8   1.6   0.8  11.8 11.8
C. Agricultural Development
1. Extension                    0.2   0.5   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.5  2.6
2. Research A Inputs            0.3   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   1.3  1.3
8. Farmer Training A Organ.     0.0   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.7  0.7
4. On-Farm Investment           0.0   0.0   1.9   2.8   2.9   1.1   0.3   8.9  8.9
5. Coordination                 0.3   0.3   0.6   0.5   0.6   0.3   0.2   2.9  2.9
Sub-total                         0.8   1.3   3.1   8.9   4.1   2.1   1.1  16.4  16.4
D. Cuayas Basin Master Plan       0.0   9.0   1.2   0.8   0.0   0.a   0.0   2.1  2.1
E. Environment                    1.3   0.7   0.9   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.6  3.6
F. Management A Training          0.9   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.4   0 4   0.4   8.4  3.4
Total BASELINE COSTS              4.3  13.2  21.0  16.2  10.7   7.7   4.2  77.4  77.4
Physical Contingencies         0.1   1.4   2.4   1.8   1.2   0.9   0.4   8.1  8.1
Price Contingencies            0.2   1.0   2.5   2.7   2.8   2.0   1.3  12.1 12.1
Total PROJECT COSTS               4.6  15.8  26.9  20.6  14.3  10.6   6.9  97.6 97.6
Taxes                          0.0   1.1   1.9   1.4   0.9   0.8   0.4   6.3  6.5
Foreign Exchange               3.4   9.6  16.2  11.8   7.5   6.5   3.1  67.1 57.1
Values Scaled by 1060009.0 6/18/1990 15:11



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL
Summary Account by Project Component
(us$)
Guayas
Bypass    Roads                                  Farmer   On-Farm               Basin            Uanagae
and      and              Extensto Research Training  Investme Coordina   Mastor  Environn   nt a
Dikes   Bridges  Drainage      n    a Inputs a Organ.       nt       tion      Plan      ent   Training
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                        8.8       8.4       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
8. Eorthmoving                       18.7      090        9.1       0.0       0.0 6.0                 0.    .0       0.0       0.0       0.0
C. Vehicles and Equipmant
1. Vehicles                          6.8       0.0       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.1       0.0       0.1       0.1       0.2       0.1
2. Equipment A Materials             0.3       0.0       0.1       0.0       0.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.8       0.4       0.0
3. Office Equip. A Furn.             0.0       0.0       0.6       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       6.0       0.1
-  ---------     _     -   _________________-------________- -- -- --    -____ -------  - _____ -- - - -    - - -
Sub-total                             0.8       6.0       0.2       6.3      0.6       0.1       0.0       0.1       0.7       0.7       0.1
D. Buildings                          0.0       0.0       0.1       0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
E. Technical Assistance
1. Personnel                         3.3       0.0       1.1       6.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       2.8       1.2       1.7       1.6
2. Operating Costs                   0.2       0.0       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.1       0.6       0.0       0.0
__________________________________--_--------_---------_- - -___-_   _---_-_____----_--_________
Sub-total                             8.5       0.6       1.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       2.e       1.2       1.7       1.7    O%
F. Training
1. Overseas                          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.1       0.1       0.0       0.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2
2. Local                             0.0       6.0       0.0       0.2      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2
__________   ____----_-_----_-           ----            - ------ --- -
Sub-total                             0.0       6.0       0.0       0.3      0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.4
0. Studies A Pilot Projects           0.1       0.0       0.1       0.0      0.0       V.0       6.0       0.6       0.0       0.7       6.0
H. Indemnification                    2.9       6.0       0.0       o.6       6.6      0.6       0.6       0.0       6.6       0.0       0.0
I. On-Farm Investment                 6.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       8.9       0.0       0.0       a a       0.0
________________-       -----__-_--_____-------------------- -- -   ---_---  - ---- -    --__- ___________________
i Totnl INVESTMENT COSTS               29.4      8.4      10.7       1.0       0.7       0.1       8.9       2.6       1.9       3.2      2.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
___________________
A. Staff
1. Salaries                          0.8       0.0      0.2       0.8       0.3       0.3       0.0       0.8       0.2       0.2       0.4
2. Social Charges                    0.8       0.0       0.1      0.2       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.1       0.1       6.1       0.2
Sub-total                             1.1       0.0       0.3       0.8      0.4       0.4       0.0       0.4       0.2       0.2       0.6
B. Operating Costs                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.7      0.3       0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1       0.6
C. Infrastructure O&U                 1.0       0.1       0.7       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.0       0.0
__ __ _ __ __ _ _   -__-----_-------   - -----------_ ---____-- - --- -- - -- - - - -- - -- - _-______-_____
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 2.2       0.1       1.0       1.5      0.7       0.8       0.0       0.4       0.2       0.4       1.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                 81.7       8.5      11.8       2.6      1.3       0.7       8.9       2.9       2.1       3.8       3.4
Physical Contingencies              3.9       1.3       1.6      0.1       0.1       0.0       0.9       0.0       0.1       0.1       0.1     H _
Price Contingencies                 4.0       2.0       2.1      0.4       0.2       0.1       1.7       0.4       0.3       0.3       0.5   Q cra
Total PROJECT COSTS                  39.8      11.8      16.4       3.1      1.8       0.8      11.6       3.3       2.5       4.0       3.9   , 
Taxes                               3.5       1.4       1.6      0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.6  Om
Foreign Exchange                   23.4       5.3      11.2      0.8       0.8       0.2       4.7       2.8       2.1       3.1       2.6
-------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------   ----  -  -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Summar  AccoQut by Proiect Comonent (USS)
Physical          Price
Contingencies     Conttngencies
Total        X     Amount      X   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
===___________ ____
A. Civil Works                        17.0       16.4       2.6   19.0        3.2
B. Earthmoving                        22.8       15.3       3.6   15.6        3.5
C. Vehicles and Equipment
1. Vehicles                           1.3       5.b       0.1     7.7       0.1
2. Equipment A Materials              1.8       8.3       0.1    11.7        0.2
3. Office Equip. A Furn.              0.2       6.3       0.0     8.0        0.0
Sub-total                              3.4       5.7        0.2    9.8        0.3
D. Buildings                           0.6      13.5        0.1    7.8       0.0
E. Technical Assistance
1. Personnel                         11.2       0.0       0.0   12.4        1.4
2. Operating Costs                    0.5       5.0       0.0   17.1         0.1
Sub-total                             11.7       0.2       0.6   12.6         1.5
F. Training
1. Overseas                           0.4       5.0       0.0    8.5        0.0
2. Local                              0.4       5.0       0.0   10.1        0.0
Sub-total                              0.8       S.0       0.0    9.8        0.1
C. Studies A Pilot Projects            0.9       8.6       0.1    11.8        0.1
H. Indemnification                     2.9      10.0       0.3    0.0        0.0
I. On-Farm Investment                  8.9      10.0       0.9    19.1       1.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                89.1      11.2       7.7    15.2       10.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff
1. Salaries                           3.2       0.0       0.0   16.3        0.5
2. Social Charges                     1.3       0.0       0.0   16.3        0.2
Sub-total                              4.5       0.0       0.0   18.3        0.7
8. Operating Costs                     2.0       5.0       0.1   19.2        0.4
C. Infrastructure OM                  1.8      15.0       0.3   24.7        0.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  8.3       4.S       0.4   18.9        1.6
Total BASE&NE COSTS                   77.4      10.4       8.1    16.8      12.1
Physical Contingencies               8.1
Price Contingencies                 12.1       9.7       1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   97.6       9.5       9.2   12.4       12.1
Taxes                                6.5      13.3       0.9
Foreign Exchange                    S7.1       9.2       5.2
____ -_________ -- - - - - - - - -  -______ ----   -   -----_ -   ---    -    _-_-_-___



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONMROL
(USS)
Summary Accounts by Year
ease Cost.                                        Foreign Exchange
1991     1992      1998      19       199S      1996     1997    TotaI         S   Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                      0.6       2.S       3.1      4.2       3.6      2.7       1.0      17.0       45.0   7.7
B. Earthmoving                      O.0       4.8       9.6      4.4       1.7       1.5      0.8      22.8       72.0  18.4
C. Vehicles and Equipment
1. Vehieles                      0.6       0.4       0.2      0.0       0.6      6.6       0.0       1.3       80.5   1.1
2. Equipment A Materials         0.6       6.3       0.6      0.2       0.1       6.1      6.1       1.8       81.8   1.5
a. Offiee Equip. A Furn.         6.1       0.1       0.6      0.0       9.0       6.o      0.6       0.2       33.9   6.1
Sub-total                           1.2       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.2      0.1       0.1      8.4        77.8   2.?
0. Buildings                        O.1       0.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.6        45.0   0.2
E. Technical Assistance
1. Personnel                     1.9       2.3       2.6      2.3       1.0      6.7       6.5      11.2      100.6  11.2
2. Operating Cost.               0.0       O.1       O.1      0.1       O.1       6,1      6.1      O.6       106.0   0.5
Sub-total                           1.9       2.4       2.7      2.4       1.1      0.8       6.5      11.7      166.6  11.7
F. Training
1. Overseas                      6.1       0.2       6.1      6.0       6.0      0.6       6.6      0.4       160.0   0.4
2. Local                         0.2       6.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.4        86.3   0.1               Cs
Sub-total                           0.3       6.3       6.1      6.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.8        68.s   6.5                4
0. Studies & Pilot Projects         6.8       0.0       0.4      0.3       0.0      6.0       0.0      0.9        60.0   6.5
H. Indemnification                  0.0       1.2       1.2      0.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      2.9         0.0   0.0
I. On-Form Investment               6.0       0.6       1.9      2.8       2.9      1.1       0.3      8.9        40.7   3.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              3.8      12.4      19.9     14.8       9.4      6.2       2.7     69.1        62.8  43.8
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
J. Staff
1. Salaries                      6.8       0.4      0.6       0.6       0.6      9.6       0.5      8.2         6.0   0.0
2. Social Charges                6.1       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       1.8        0.6   6.6
Sub-total                           0.4       6.6      0.8       0.8       6.7      0.6       0.6      4.5         0.0   0.0
K. Operating Costs                  6.1       0.2       0.2      0.3       0.3      0.4       0.4      2.0        89.4   0.8
L. Infrastructure OaM               0.0       0.0      0.1       0.8       0.4      0.5       6.5      1.8        75.1   1.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS               0.6       0.9       1.1      1.4       1.4       1.6      1.5      8.8        26.0   2.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                4.8      18.2      21.0     16.2      10.7      7.7       4.2      77.4       68.8  45.5
Physical Contingencies           0.1       1.4       2.4      1.8       1.2      0.9       0.4      8.1        56.8   4.6
Price Continencies               0.2       1.6       2.6      2.7       2.3       2.0      1.3      12.1       58.1   7.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4.6      16.6      26.9     20.6      14.8     10.6       6.6     97.6        68.6  57.1
Taxes                            6.0       1.1       1.9      1.4       0.9      0.8       0.4      8.6         0.0   6.6
Foreign Exchange                 3.4       9.6      16.2     11.8       7.6      5.6       3.1      67.1      100.6  57.1
Values Scaled by 1606666.0 6/18/1990 15:10                                                                                                L.oo



- 68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 7
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Financial and Economic Ana lvsis
Proiect Costs
1.          Project base cost has been estimated in US dollars (March 1990)
and adjusted to January 1991 prices, the expected date for initiating project
implementation, using a forecasted change of 2.7% in the Manufacturers Unit
Value index (MUV) 1' Price contingencies are also estimated at 3.6% annually
during the implementation period. For most goods and services, current sucre
prices were available and simply converted to US dollars using the prevailing
exchange rate. In the case of civil works and earthmoving, however, unit
prices were in September 1987 sucres, which were converted to September 1987
US$ dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate of S/.210/US$l. Based on
calculations by the Country Operations Division, this rate is assumed to
reflect the real effective equilibrium rate following the macroeconomic
adjustments and Sucre devaluations during early 1987. Finally, these
September 1987 US dollar costs have been adjusted to March 1990 prices based
on XUV increase of 7.85% for the period. Sample comparisons of these prices
with March 1990 sucre prices converted to US dollars indicate that prices for
the particular items involved have moved in line with general price increases.
For all project costs, it was further assumed that future devaluations will
reflect inflation differential between the sucre and the US dollar during the
course of implementation.
Benefits
2.          The project would generate a variety of benefits in both rural and
urban areas, including averting losses in economic output and infrastructure,
facilitating increased investment, productivity and incomes (particularly
among small farmers), improving health and sanitation conditions, increasing
government savings and revenues, and enhancing the environmental quality of
areas both inside and outside the project boundaries. Some of these benefits,
particularly those related to health, sanitation, and environmental quality,
cannot be readily quantified, though they are likely to be considerable.
Flood Losses in Acriculture
3.          The impact of flood waters on agricultural production is
manifested in a variety of ways which affect the level and quality of output
through the negative influence of excess water on the physiological process of
the plant, the introduction of pests and silt transported by flood waters, and
limitations in access to farms and fields with adverse consequences for timely
farming and harvesting. The nature and level of output lost depend on a
variety of factors, which can be interdependent, including the  -tration and
level of flood waters, occurrence of flooding within the croppin.g cycle and
the velocity of flood waters. Flooding can also influence longer-term
production and productivity levels through actual damage and losses to on-farm
investments, including machinery and perennial crops and livestock, and silt
deposits that can render farmland unusable. Longer-term development is also
I/   Price projections,  US dollar and commodity,  are based on the IBRD
Commodity Price Forecasts, dated January 1990, and the subsequent OD 6.50
of June 1990.



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 7
undermined by the risk from potential flooding. While, individual farmers,
with the financial wherewithal, can reduce this risk by investing in on-farm
flood control works, these investments, in turn, greatly increase the cost of
farming and the flood damage in neighboring farms.
4.          There has been no systematic monitoring of flood damage in the
project area or rigorous assessment of the economic impact of flooding in the
Lower Guayas Basin. Therefore, for this analysis, estimates of the losses
from flooding are based on a modelling exercise of the four major flood
episodes since the early 1970s using available and estimated parameters, wnich
include area flooded, duration and period of flooding, land use, cropping
calendars, net income, investment costs, and replanting costs for the major
crops, and estimates of flood frequency.
5.          There are few scientific studies that quantify the relationship
between flood losses and the variety of factors that cause them and no
research has been undertaken ia the Lower Guayas Basin. For this analysis,
the only measured factors available are duration and timing of the floods.
Data on flood duration are only available on a monthly basis. While this is a
relatively long period which would appear to provide an upward bias in damage
estimates, depending on the height and velocity (factors not available)
shorter periods of flooding may be even more destructive that longer periods
of standing flood waters. The other factor for which data are available, the
timing of the floods, has been related to the vegetative cycle of the crops
involved as follows:
(i)   Annual crops are generally planted during a two-month period.  For
the purposes of the analysis, when flooding is limited to the
first month after the beginning of the planting period, it is
assumed that crops will be replanted and develop subsequently
without adverse consequence on yield levels. Losses in this
situation involve the costs of replanting. Flooding in the second
month of planting and thereafter are assumed to result in lower
yields or total loss of crop depending on the vegetative cycle of
the particular species and the duration of the flooding. The
above applies to annual crops planted in winter (primarily rice
and maize).  Summer crops are generally planted in April through
June. Only rarely does flooding occur as late as April; however,
when it does, it is assumed that 33% of the area must be
replanted.
(ii) Output losses for perennial crops (and shrimp farming) are
calculated based on the relationship between harvest periods and
the timing and duration of flooding. In the case of bananas and
sugarcane, long periods of flooding result in damage to the plant
and require replanting, while cacao, coffee and citrus appear more
resistant to such damage.
6.          Table 1 presents the timing and duration of the four major
flooding periods since 1973 by month and area affected. Estimates of the
affect on individual crops is presented in Table 2.
7.          Indicative crop budgets, including establishment costs for
perennial crops, have been developed for most of the crops and technology
levels present in the project area, and are available in the Technical File.
These budgets are used to estimate three categories of losses: net income,
costs of replanting annual crops, and reestablishment of perennial crops and
shrimp ponds. Not included in the analysis and estimation are repairs and
reconstruction of farm investments including access roads and storage
facilities, and losses of farm animals. Although there is no allowance made
for price increases for output harvested to reflect scarcity during the



- 70 -
AMNX 9
Page 3 of 7
flooding, such effects are likely to be limited to food crops with little
weight in the aggregate estimates. Finally, for simplicity, it iL assumed
that flooding of pastures does not involve losses because livestock can be
moved to higher ground, although weight, mortality and calving rates would
likely be adversely affected.
8.          Losses estimated (in 1987 USS) using the above methodology are as
follows for the four major flooding episodess 1973, US$4.5 million; 1982/83,
US$8.9 million; 1984/85, US$1.7 million; and 1986/87, US$2.6 million
(Table 3).
Urban Flood Losses
9.          Unlike the agricultural sector there are some official data
available on urban flood damage; however, they only cover the 1982/83 and
1986/87 floods for the four largest towns, and for the city of Milagro for
1982/83, 1984/85, and 1986/87. These estimates include damages to public
facilities, agroindustrial processing p,aants, and housing, and are presented
in Table 4. These losses, which should be considered underestimated,
amounted to US$3.4 million in 1982/83, US$0.8 million in 1984/85, and US$2.9
million in 1986/87.
ImDroved Drainaae and Acricultural Development
10.         Drainage works to be constructed by the project are expected to
benefit agricultural productivity on some 60,460 ha, including 10,610 ha
outside the project area. Benefits attributable to yield increases from
improved drainage have been modelled based on the crop budgets. Estimated
increases are 10% for rice and sugarcane and 5% for bananas and cacao.
11.         Improved security from flooding is likely to stimulate investments
in agriculture to increase productivity of existing crops. The agricultural
development component would seek to assist small farmers in making these
improvements in input use and farming practices. In conjunction with improved
drainage, yield increases are estimated at 25% for maize, cacao and
horticultural crops by full development in year ten. Benefits from research
findings with a longer-term application throughout the Lower Guayas Basin have
not been quantified.
12.         Reduced risk of flooding is also likely to induce changes in the
cropping mix to higher value activities. Shifts in the crop mix have been
conservatively estimated to involve cropping of 4,630 ha currently under
pasture, which represents 4% of the agricultural area.
Socioeconomic Imoact
13.         Based on representative crop budgets, land use and tenure,
estimates of farm income in the project area indicate that at least two-thirds
of project beneficiaries in rural areas live in relative poverty, i.e., farm
income of less than 40% of the average GDP per capita of US$960 in 1987.
While the welfare of these farm families is reduced even further during years
of flooding, the major influence of the floods is to induce farming practices
which limit investment and cash outlays for inputs in order to minimize
potential flood losses.
14.         Reducing risk associated with flooding and improving drainage
would stimulate greater investment by farmers and improvements in farming
practices. While larger farmers in the project area are expected to take
advantage of the new situation without project support, smaller farmers with
less than 10 ha have been targeted to receive technical assistance. Farm
models suggest that incomes for most small farmers should increase



- 71 -
ANNLEX 9
Page 4 of 7
significantly, with all but the smallest able to increase per capita income
above the relative poverty threshold (Table 5).
Imnact on Government Savinqs and Revenues
15.         Implementation of the flood control works would result in savings
of government expenditures for emergency works and maintenance of existing
flood control works in the area. During the 1983-88 period, these
expenditures have averaged about US$635,000 annually, as detailed belows
Expenditures for Emergency Works and O&N
Local     External                 Exchange
Financing   Financing     Total        Rate        Total
Year      (S/.M)       (S/.N)      (S.M)    (S/./US$)    (USS T)
1983      49.8                     49.8        83.2          598
1984      94.2                     94.2        92.6        1,017
1985      35.7        48.5         84.2        96.1          876
1986      64.1        10.5         74.6       123.4          604
1987      70.9        13.8         84.7       171.0          495
1988                  54.6         54.6       350.0          218
Sources  CEDEGE Planning Department.
16.             Flood protection is generally considered to be a social
responsibility of the government, and therefore, provisions for direct cost
recovery have not been implemented. The social aspects of this particular
project are heightened with two-thirds of the rural beneficiaries being poor
small farmers. Practical considerations also limited cost recovery as
benefits from flood control and drainage vary, depending on location, land
level, and soil quality and use. Nevertheless, in theory the government could
expect to receive increased tax revenues from greater and more secure economic
activity in the project area. In Ecuador, taxation of agriculture is minimal,
despite the legal existence of a number of revenue raising laws, nostly
related to property taxes and presumptive income. Property assessments are
only carried out every five years and no allowance is made for inflation. The
last cadastre for revaluing assessments in the area was carried out in 1986,
with the next one scheduled for 1991. Although assessments and rates are
extremely low, actual collection of taxes in the area varies between 20-70% of
the potential depending on the municipality. Property is taxed by
municipalities in both urban and rural areas. For rural areas, the average
assessed value of land in 1986 was equivalent to about US$825/ha taxed at a
rate of 1.2%. The presumptive income tax collected by the national government
uses a somewhet lower base, which includes only the value of the land, and a
tax rate of 5%.
17.             An estimate of potential increases in revenue at full
development can be made under the assumption that future assessments are
indexed, taxes are fully collected, and the increase in future land values can
be approximated by annual incremental income per ha of about 15% from averted
flood losses, productivity increases, and changes in the cropping mix. For
simpl.city the same base is used for both prope-.ty and presumptive income
taxes, yielding the results below:



- 72 -
ANz 9
Page 5 of 7
Estimated Increase in Tax Revenues With Project
Project Area      Incremental Value         Tax Yield
Value
(Ha)              (USS/ha)                (US$)
Property Tax        115,500                1.50                173,250
Income Tax          115,500                6.25                721,875
Total                                                       895,125
Sources Bank Estimates.
18.         While these assumptions result in an overestimation of revenues
from these sources, there are likely to be revenue increases from other taxes
not included, e.g., urban property taxes and corporate taxes on the larger
farming enterprises in the project area.
Economic Prices
19.         Shadow Exchanae Rate.  The financial rate of exchange (S/./US$) in
September 1987 was S/.210/USS. For the economic analysis, a shadow rate of
exchange was calculated to reflect the impact of the trade regime, i.e.,
taxes, duties, and import deposits, on the demand for foreign exchange and the
exchange rate. The table below indicates that import taxes and duties
increased the cost of imports by about :.3%.
Value of Imports and Duties - 1983-87
Value of Imports               Imports Duties    Share
Year     (USS M)    (S/./US5)    (S/. M)            (S/. M)         (C)
1983      1.305       83.47         108.928         10.578           9.7
1984      1.396       96.07         143.142         17.360          12.9
1985      1.544      116.29         179.552         25.997          14.5
1986      1.575      151.40         236.455         36.189          15.2
1987      1.054      158.43         166.985         18.169          10.9
Average                                             21.6
Source: Central Bank of Ecuador.
20.         Deposit requirements that cover the full value of merchandise to
be imported also increase the cost of imports. For 1987, a commercial rate of
interest of 36% and inflation of 30% suggests a real financial cost of 1 of
the value of imports, assuming a two-month deposit period. Together with
average effective import duties during 1983-87, the trade regime is estimated
to increase the cost of imports by about 14%. Consequently, the shadow
exchange rate is calculated to be S/.240 (S/.210 X 1.14).
Shadow Waae Rate
21.         A review of the supply and demand for labor il. the project area by
the preparation team indicates that the area suffers from periodic labor
shortages and suggests that adjustments to financial wage rates for labor are



- 73 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 7
not required for estimating a shadow wage rate. Thus, the financial wage rate
for unskilled labor of S/.800/day is used in the economic analysis. Semi-
skilled labor used in banana operations receives a wage of S/.1,900. Labor
for sugarcane production, the other major employer in the project area, is
paid on the basis of tonnage cut. Based on S/.150/ton and an average of five
tons per day, the daily wage during harvest is S/.750. However, to attract
workers, usually brought in from the Sierra for the zafra (harvest), the
larger plantations also provide housing and food (beef, milk, and rice
produced on the farm) at subsidized prices. The value of these benefits is
estimated to be S/.560/day, for a total remuneration of S1.1,300 per day.
Product and Input Prices
22.         The economic analysis is based on September 1987 real prices.
Economic prices for agricultural output and inputs have been calculated for
all major traded items using appropriate border pricing techniques to reflect
handling, transport, and processing costs where applicable. Four major
products, banana, coffee, cacao, and shrimp are exported. The IBRD Commodity
Price Forecasts (dated January 1990) were used for adjusting prices to 1995
real levels. These calculations are available in the Technical File. Prices
for tradable inputs, for which border prices were not readily available, were
adjusted using the shadow exchange rate. Project costs, including civil
works, vehicles and equipment, salaries and operating costs, net of taxes,
have been adjusted using a standard conversion factor of .875,(S/.210/S/.240),
to reflect the overvalued Sucre due to trade distortions.
Economic Analysis
23.         Cost Stream.  The cost stream for the project includes:  (i)
construction expenditures and O&M of flood control and drainage works,
including on-farm investment; (ii) costs for agricultural development and
project management; and (iii) output foregone from agricultural lands occupied
by project works. Calculation of (iii) is detailed below:
Area Occupied by Project Works
Annual Net Value of
Area Occupied               Production
Crop                     Ha              (S/. M. economic prices)
Rice                     250                         6.3
Banana                   160                       195.7
Sugarcane                400                        41.7
Tree Fruit               100                         9.9
Pastures                 500                         7.3
Other Crops              280                         7.7
Brush                  3,230
Total                  4,920                       268.6
24.         For the economic analysis, expenditures on the Guayas Basin Master
Plan and those for environmental activities have not be included in the cost
stream because the associated benefits, although likely to be considerable in
sustaining long-term development in the area, are not readily quantified.



- 74 -
aNNX 9
Page 7 of 7
Benefit Stream
25.         The benefit stream used for the economic analysis of the project
includess (i) averted losses to agricultural output and investments; (ii)
damages to urban infrastructure; (iii) improved crop yields from drainage and
other on-farm investments; (iv) incremental agricultural output from changes
in crop mix due to greater security from flooding and improved drainage; and
(v) savings of government expenditures for emergency works.
26.         The calculation of benefits from averted losses is based on the
four most recent major floods in the area. These losses, in turn, have been
annualized and weighted according to estimates of flood frequency as follows:
Major Flood Frequency in the Lower Guayas Basin
Frequency of Occurrence       Weight of Losses
Flood                   (Years)                      (%)
1973                       1:25                     11.5
1982/83                    1:50                      3.0
1984/85                   1:2                       62.5
1986/87                    1:4                      23.0
27.         The continued risk of extreme flooding has also been factored into
the calculation of the benefit stream. While design criteria calls for
protection from flooding occurring at a frequency of 1:50 and the resulting
benefits in averted losses are used in the analysis, further investments in
bypass stabilization to be executed under the project would diminish the risk
of floods to those with a 100-year return period and lead to greater benefits.
Cost and benefit streams are presented in Table 6.
Rate of Return and sensitivity
28.         The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
15% over 40 years, the expected life of major investments (Table 7).
Switching tests indicate that expected benefits would have to decline 22% or
costs increase 29% befo-e the ERR would fall to 12%, the assumed opportunity
cost of capital (OCC). Sensitivity tests were also run which indicate the ERR
would remain above 12% even with a two-year lag in benefits.
29.         The ERR estimated for the flood control as a free-standing project
is 17%, with a net present value (NPV) of US$10.0 million at the assumed OCC.
The drainage and agricultural development components are complementary to
flood control and to each other; however, meaningful allocation of costs and
benefits between them is not possible. Evaluated jointly, their inclusion
increases the overall NPV to US$11.5 million and would generate important
social benefits for small farmers in the area.



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
ECUADOR
Lower Guayas Flood Control Project
Summary of Flooding by Month and Duration
(Percent of Flooded Area)
1973    1982/83  1984185  1986/87
One Month
December
January
February
March                                    8        30
April                          30                          30
Two Months
Dec. - Jan.
Jan. - Feb.
Feb. - March                            20       20
March - April                  20                          20
Three Months
Dec. - Feb.
Jan. - March                            18       50
Feb. - April                  20                           20
Four Months
Dec. - March                            54
Jan. - April                  30                           30
Total                 100      100       100       100
Area Flooded (Ha)        16,100   41,699    5,000   14,700



EaNADOR
LOWER WUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Flood Impact by Crop
Tree
RIco     RIco          Bona"a /e        Coftee    Cacao          Shrimp /a           Fruit   Sugarcane
(Tech)   (Trad)   Output   Invostment                         Output    Investsoat
(Percent of Total)
One Month
December                                     so           so       a5        70        0.6 /b         1o        8e          80
January                                      6a so                 85       70                        19      a8            69
Februory                                    s0            30      386        s         1.5 /c         10       8s          8s
March                     76      199        6o           8o       66       69         2.6 /c         1o       46          8B
April                    100      1Z0        60           89       56       so         2.5 /c         19       46           80
Two Months
Dec - Jan                                    76           75       e6        76        1.5 /b         20        59          70
Jan - Feb                                    76           76       es       76         1.6 /c         20       59           70
Feb -Mr                   76     1e         75           75       75       76         2.9 /          20       so           85
Mar - Apr                199      19         76           75       75        76        2.5 /c         20       s0           85
Three Months
Dec - Feb                                   100          199       so       o0         2.9 /d         40        70        10
Jan - Nor                 76      199       199          100        90       so        2.6 /c         40       70          199
Feb - April              199      1O9       199          190       80       so         2.5 /c         40       70          199
Four Months
Doe - Mar                199      100       109          199      199      1W          a.0 /d         SO      199          199
Jan - Apr               19       199       199          1O9      100     l9          8.0           6s       lea          wea
/a Output refers to number of harvests; Investment refers to ponds only.
/b Loss of previous stocking
/c LoSu of future harvest
/d Loss of previous stocking and future harvest.
/o Investment reters to replanting.



- 77 -                                  ANIE 9
Table 3
ECUADOR
LOWER CUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Agricultural Flood Losses
Financial Prices
1973            1982-83           1984-96           1986-67
Duration/Month   Area     Total    Area     Total    Area     Total    Area      Total
flooded  losses   flooded  loesea  flooded  louses  flooded  logss"
(Ha)    (S/.U)    (Ha)    (S/.M)    (Ha)    (S/.U)    (1H)    (S/.M)
Traditional          700      7.0      276      2.8      200      2.0        76      0.8
Semi-Technified    2,200     38.2    8,500     50.2    1,060      14.1      500      7.7
Coffee/Cacao     7,800    111.9   9,560    158.1    2,800      87.1    2,150      80.8
Tree Fruit      2,560    178.7   8,100    2S0.8    1,100    865.        725      49.4
Bananas
Output             1,800    800.8    2,601    462.6      Sbf    108.4    1,426   287.7
Investment                  206.5             847.4              74.6              188.4
Sugarcane       6,400    114.1   28,700    637.8    2,950     52.7    8,650      68.4
Shrimp Farming
Output                                 125     87.1
Investment                                     89.0
Total        21,460      947   47,762    :,880    8,760      864    8,426      658
Frequency (1:60 years)/a     11.5%              8.0%             62.5G              28.0X
Total
614               109               s6                221               127
Frequency (1:100 years)/a     4.6%              1.5X             82.6%              11.5X
Total
427                48                28               292                64
/a Of the 1982-83 flood.



- 78-                                     AhNEX 9
Table 4
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Urban Flood Logse"
(S/. el I I I on)
El Triunfo    M.J. Calle  P.J. montero    Taura            Milagro
1988  1987   1988  1987   1988  188?   1988  1987   1983 198  19I7
Roads                   59.0  2.6                   7.0  12.8                        29.4  40.7
Dikes                                       8.0                         7.6          28.1  1.7
Education Facilities    24.0 68.0    1.0  1.3    4.0              2.0  4.9   83.6  15.2
Health Facillties        6.0 20.0                                 3.0  S.0
Sport Facilities                            0.2
Water and Sewage                                                        0.2   29.6  85.4
Housing                 20.0 280.0    7.5  8.6    1.4  7.6    6.0 30.0    2.4   3.6
Rice Processors         19.6 68.0                  21.0  67.0
Unspeciftied                          15.6                                     16.5
Total
(Current Prices)   128.6 426.5   24.0  18.1   88.4  77.1   11.0 47.6   81.8  111.8  42.4
Price Index              2.7  1.0    2.7  1.0    2.7  1.0    2.7  1.0    2.7   1.5  1.0
(Sept. 1987 Prices)  846.9 426.5   64.8  18.1  90.18  77.1   29.7 47.6  219.5  167.4  42.4
(US8 million)       1.6  2.0    0.8  0.1    0.4  0.4    0.1  0.2    1.0   0.8  0.2
WsIght            ax  28W       3x  28W      ax  238       ax  23X       ax  6e%  23
Weighted Tosal     10.4 98.1    1.9  8.0    2.7  17.'-    0.9  10.9    6.6  104.6   9.8



ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Net Inc~e by Farm Type
(USS 1987)
Actual                                      Future With Project
Farm      Farm     Gross   Net Cash   Net Family Per Capita        Gross  Net Cash Net Family Per Capita  Incrmntl
Model     Area    Margin    Income       Income      Income       Margin   Income    Income       Income   per Capita
(Ha)                                                                                                 (
I          3.0      214         729         814         164         790    1,481       1,848        311         102%
II          3.6      362         978       1,095         207       1,087    1,978       2,162        408          97%
III         4.0      588       1,724       1,796         339       2,410    3,638       2,790        527         5S%
IV          8.6      481       1,506       1,586         299       2,100    3,795       3,919        739         147%
V          8.0      976       2,748       2,976         582       1,824    3,314       3,738         70         28%
VI          9.0       757      2,505       2,590         489       2,643    4,643       4,710         889         82%
VII        14.0    1,938       S,300       3,571         87..      4,052    5,981       8,190       1,188         73%
VIII        19.0    1,382       6,062       5,200         981       5,019    7,788       ?.*'9       1,507         54%
Source: CEDEGE/HASKONING
IiD



REPU8LIC OF ECUADOR
LOWER WUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(Millons of 1087 Sucres)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1998    1997    1998    1999    2B00    2001    2002    2003 2004-30
Flood Control              156.4  1417.1  2387.4  1292.5   858.5  887.4  385.4   178.3  178.8  178.3   178.3   178.3   178.3   178.3
Main Drainage Network       72.3  419.8   844.7  820.7  835.9  804.3  159.6   58.4   58.4   68.4   56.4   56.4    58.4    58.4
On-Farm Investment             -   238.3  224.9  341.8  296.2  187.4   82.2             -               -               -       -        -
Agricultural Development   104.7  219.8   192.6   170.4   188.4   152.0  121.3  121.3   121.3   121.3   121.3   121.3   121.3   121.3
Administration             152.4   73.5   59.2   47.2    47.2   47.2   57.7           5.8     5.8     6.8     5.8     5.8     5.8      5.8
Total Costs                484.8  2388,8  3208.7 2481.8  1723.2  1378.3   788.1   381.8  381.8   381.8   381.8   381.8   381.8   381.8
Averted Crop Losses            -               -   438.3   730.5  1022.7  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0  1461.0  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0
Averted Urban Losses           -          -    -   80.0  133.3  188.8  288.8  288.8  288.8  268.8  2e8s6    286.8  268.8  268.8
Budgetary Savings              -       -   48.2   77.0  107.8  164.0  154.0  154.0  154.0  164.0   154.0   lS4.0   154.0  164.0
Land Use                   -17.7 -141.8  -177.0   177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0
Extreme Floods                 -       -  -30.8   -51.8   -88.4   -84.8   -61.2  -57.8  -54.0   -60.4   -48.8   -42.1   -38.0   -36.0
Crop Mix fflooding             -       -       -       -    41.1    88.8    50.7  107.0   102.0    83.1    70.7    88.8   8e.8    86.8
Crop Mix (Drainage)            -       -       -       -    57.7   127.8   122.0   197.4   210.8   207.3   205.4   204.7   204.7   204.7
Crop Productivity              -       -       -       -   158.6   179.8   238.4   378.9   581.0   880.0   759.9   847.8   888.8   917.1           0
_===  ---==:=          _            =-   .==33=--- __ ==  C_=  ===-__ 3 _ _          =t_   =-=     z==                I
Total Benefits             -17.7  -141.8  -181.4  388.5   983.6  1515.7  2052.6  2330.3  2543.9  2804.8  2893.8  27& -i  2828.1 28s7.2
Net Bonefit,              -502.5 -2608.2 -3370.1 -2115.1  -739.8   137.4  1316.4  1988.6  2182.1  2242.8  2332.0  2419.8  24e4.9  2495.4
___________________-_-_-_-__________--  - -____        _ - _ _ _ _ __ - -  _ _----    - --_-  ---- ----- -----_--…_____________.______
5/20/1990 18:00
oI0
Fb



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
Table 6
Switching Values at  12.0%                            Page 2 of 2
Appraisal     Switching     Percentage
Stream             Value         Value         Change
…-------------- --   -----…
OTOTAL            12277.9        9521.0          -22.SX
C8TOTAL            9521.0       12277.9          29.0X
…---------           - --  - --------…   -    …----
Not Present Value at OCC   12.0% = 2756.9
Internal Rate of Return = 15.4%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 16.6X
Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0X
BTOTAL    UP 10%    UP 20%    Up 50% DOWN 10% DOWN 20X  DOWN 50X
CBTOTAL    2758.9    3984.7   5212.5   8895.9   1629.1    301.3  -3382.0
UP 10%    1804.8   3032.8   4280.4   7943.8    577.0   -850.8  -4334.1
UP 20X     852.7    2080.5    3308.3    8991.7    -375.1   -1802.9  -5286.2
UP S0%   -2003.6    -776.8     452.0    4135.4   -3231.4   -4459.1   -8142.5
DOWN 10X    3709.0    493e.8    6184.8    9848.0    2481.2    1253.4   -2429.9
DOWN 20%    4681.1    6888.9    7118.7   10800.1    3433.3   220S.s  -1477.8
DOWN 50%    7517.4    8745.2    9973.0   13858.3   8289.8    50el.8    1378.6
BTOTAL     LAG 1     LAG 2     LAC 3
CBTOTAL    2756.9    1441.4     286.9    -781.8
UP 10%    18*4.8    489.3    -886.2   -1733.9
UP 20X     852.7    -462.8   -1837.3   -2e88.0
UP 50%   -2003.8   -3319.1   -4493.6   -6542.3
DOWN 10%    3709.0    2393.E    1219.0     170.3
DOWN 20%    4861.1    3345.8    2171.1    1122.4
DOWN 50%    7517.4    8201.9    5027.4    3978.7
LAG 1         -    2481.5    1287.0     238.3
LAG 2         -         -    2197.8    1149.1
LAG 3         -         -         -    1962.3
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
8TOTAL    UP 10    UP 20X    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20% DOWN 50%
CB.OTAL    15.403    18.796    18.125    21.818    13.941    12.395     8.974
UP 10%    14.077    15.403    18.871    20.190    12.683    11.206      6.984
UP 20%    12.921    14.190    15.403    18.770    11.s84    10.184     5.102
UP 50%    10.164    11.307    12.39S    15.403     8.955     7.680      2.894
DOWN 10%    18.945    18.413    19.817    23.709    15.403    13.774      8.103
DOWN 20%    18.770    20.329    21.818    25.940    17.133    15.403     9.417
DOWN 60%    27.214    29.185    31.018    38.078    25.153    22.965    15.403
BTOTAL     LAG 1     LAO 2     LAG 3
CBTOTAL    15.403    13.839    12.285    11.204
UP 10%    14.077    12.521    11.313    18.340
UP 20%    12.921    11.538    10.461     9.571
UP S0%    10.184     9.165     8.344     7.875
DOWN 10%    18.946    14.926    13.398    12.188
DOWN 20%    18.770    16.433    14.887    13.319
DOWN 50%    27.214    23.224    20.389    18.250
LAO 1         -    15.403    13.839    12.288
LAG 2         -         -    15.403    13.639
LAG 3         -         -         -    15.403



REPUBLUC OF ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Flood Control Component
(Millions of 198t Sucres)
…__________-____________  …_-_____________- ----             ------- --------                          -…
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   199    1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003 ?004-30
…-~~~~      ----------------------------------------------- ---…------------------
Flood Control         165.4 1417.1  2387.4  1293.5  856.6  687.4   356.4  178.3  178.3  178.3  178.8  178.3  178.3  178.3
Administration        162.4   73.6   69.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   67.7    6.8    6.8    6.8    5.8    6.8               6.8    6.8
=== _= _               -= ~   ======Q =:= ~===s----=
Total Costs           307.8  1490.7 2448.8  1340.7  903.7  734.6  393.1  184.1  184.1  184.1  184.1  184.1  184.1  184.1
Averted Crop Losses       -       -       -  438.3  730.6 1022.7  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0  1481.0 1461.6  1481.0  1481.0
Averted Urban Losses      -       -       -   80.0  133.3  188.8  286.8  288.8  288.8  268.8  288.6  288.8  286.8   28.6.
Budgetary Savings         -       -   48.2   77.0  107.8  164.0  164.0   164.0  154.0  164.0  164.0  154.0  164.0   164.0
Land Use              -17.7 -141.8  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0 -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0  -177.0 -177.0  -177.0  -177.0
Extreme Floods            -       -  -30.8  -61.8  -88.4  -84.8  -81.2  -67.8   -54.0  -60.4  -48.8  -42.1  -38.0  -38.0
Crop Mix                  -       -       -       -   41.1   86.6   60.7  107.0  102.0   83.1    70.7   68.8   86.8   68.8
Total Benefits        -17.7  -141.6  -181.4  366.6   787.3  1208.1  1894.1  1764.0  1762.8  1737.3  1728.6 1729.3  1733.4  1735.4
Net Benefits         -325.6 -1632.3 -2608.0 -974.2  -136.4  473.6  1301.0  1689.9  1668.6  1563.2  1644.4  1646.2  1649.3  1651.3
- - - ----------  -------------------------------- - ------------------ ---------------_-----____--_____________________________----
6/20/1999 18:01
Switching Values at 12.0X
Appraisal    Switching    Percentage
Stream            Value         Value         Change
STOTAL            8199.7        6796.9         -29.3%
CBTOTAL           6796.9        8199.7          41.4%
Net Present Value at OCC   12.0% = 2402.8
Internal Rate of Return = 16.9%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return = 17.1X



- 83 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
LOWER GUAYAS FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.        Estudios de Factibilidad y Diseflo del Control de Inundaciones de la
Cuenca Baja del Guayas (Abril 1990):
Volumen 1    -   Informe Principal
Volumen 2    -   Anexo A, Topografia, Cartografla, Geotecnica e
Investigaciones de Campo.
Volumen 3    -   Anexo B, Hidrologia
Volumen 4    -   Anexo C, Hidraulica
Volumen 5    -   Anexo D, Morfologia
Volumen 6    -   Anexo E, Aspectos Agropecuarios
Volumen 7    -  Anexo F, Aspectos Sociales
Volumen 8    -   Anexo G, Impactos Ambientales
Volumen 9    -  Anexo H, Control de Inundaciones
Volumen 10   -   Anexo I, Drenaje
Volumen 11   -   Anexo J, Plan de Desarrollo Agropecuario
Volumen 12   -   Anexo K, Plan de Desarrollo Institucional (Tomo I)
-   Anexo K, Plan de Desarrollo Institucional (Tomo II)
Volumen 13   -   Anexo L, Analisis Econ6mico
Volumen 14   -   Anexo M, Plan Maestro
2.        Procedimientos para adquisiciones de Bienes, Prestacion de Servicios
y Ejecuci6n de Obras (Marzo 1990).
3.        Borrador del Manual de Operaci6n y Mantenimiento (Marzo 1990).
4.        Estudio del Impacto Ambiental (Octubre 1989).
Informe No. 1    -   Recopilaci6n y Necesidad de Informaci6n
Informe No. 2    -   Diagn6stico Situaci6n Actual
Informe No. 3    -   Pron6stico del Impacto Ambiental
Informe No. 4    -   Evaluaci6n de los Impactos Ambientales
5.        Borrador del Proceso de Legalizaci6n de Tenencia de la Tierra en
Areas Beneficiadas del Proyecto, Plan de Trabajo (Junio 1989).
6.        Borrador del Proceso de Ocupaci6n de las Tierras de Obras del
Proyecto, Plan de Trabajo (Junio 1989).
7.        Plan Operativo para los Estudios de Factibilidad y Disefto de Control
de Inundaciones en la Cuenca Baja .l Ouayas. Ampliaci6n de Acuerdo de
Cooperaci6n Tecnica Ecuador-Holanda (Enero 1989).



- 84 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
8.        Plan Operativo para los Estudios de Factibilidad y Diseflo de Control
de Inundaciones en la Cuenca Baja del Guayas. Acuerdo de Cooperacion T6cnica
Ecuador-Holanda (Abril 1987).
9.        Agricultural Development Working Paper.
10.       Detailed Projec*,Cost Tables.
11.       Financial and Economic Analysis Background Data.
12.       Detailed Project Maps.



iBiD   2225 t
h,     e     r r.a,.- 40                                                                                                                                                -  \;_cKd    
,VII.       lD                                      ,.' -.4S, -- -        -"               t4p. KDh                                                                                    E,                   v
-OAOroar po..tew                                                                                                                                                                         to's rJ/\r.;   t
p0 pOOOpOP*4                                                                               ACa                                                         FL           C    O            PROsJECT
DIVEr -ONSTRUCTURE
v v sr~~~~~e v 7                                                                                                                                                   0*            4'            A \so.0op r 
IF -;                                                                                                 PROJECT  OUNDA 
/ LOWER STUDY RGUDAYRA
---FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJCT COMP<1OUNENTS
BY-PAIS ROAD     C
F  CHURUTE NATURE RESERVE
EAIBILIT STUDYBOUDAR
/LL M   ROAD
JUNE 1990



