Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3276 EC
               (Lower Guayas Flood Control Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              COMISION DE ESTUDIOS PARA EL DESARROLLO
                    DE LA CUENCA DEL RIO GUAYAS
                        Dated March 8, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3276 EC
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMISION DE ESTUDIOS
PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA CUENCA DEL RIO GUAYAS (CEDEGE).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Ecuador (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-nine million dollars ($59,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that CEDEGE agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a contractual arrangement to be entered into between
the Borrower and CEDEGE, the proceeds of the loan provided under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to CEDEGE on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Contractual Arrangement; and
      WHEREAS CEDEGE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) CEDEGE declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, engineering, environmental and institutional
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, CEDEGE shall, not later than June 30,
1991, or such later date as the Bank shall establish, enter into the
Operating Agreements with (i) MAG, INIAP and PROTECA, for purposes
of governing their respective participation in the execution of the
corresponding sub-components of Part B of the Project; and (ii) MAG
(through DINAF) for purposes of governing their respective partici-
pation in the monitoring of the activities under Part C of the
Project. Each Operating Agreement (including the Operating Agreement
between CEDEGE and IERAC referred to in Section 6.01 (f) of the Loan
Agreement) shall provide for the administrative, financial and oper-
ational arrangements required for the respective participation of
the Operating Entities in the carrying out of Parts B and C of the
Project, provided that, in the case of the Operating Agreements with
IERAC and MAG (through DINAF), they shall include, inter alia, the
obligation of (i) CEDEGE to provide, in a timely manner, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required by any of such
Entities; and (ii) such Entities: (A) to have separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures in
respect of their respective participation in the Project; (B) to
have such records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (C) to
furnish to the Bank, through CEDEGE, within six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
      (c)   CEDEGE shall exercise its rights under each Operating
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of CEDEGE and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, CEDEGE shall not terminate, assign,
abrogate, amend or waive said Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (d)   CEDEGE shall carry out such actions related to the
execution of the Project as provided in the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. CEDEGE shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. CEDEGE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Contractual Arrangement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, CEDEGE shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Contractual Arrangement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) CEDEGE shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Contractual Arrangement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   CEDEGE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the per-
formance by CEDEGE of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Contractual Arrangement.
      Section 2.06. CEDEGE shall, not later than June 30, 1991,
establish and maintain a monitoring system for the Project,
satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 2.07. (a) CEDEGE undertakes to participate in the
review referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement and to
promptly put into effect the Bank's recommendations referred to in
paragraph (b) of such Section.
      (b)   CEDEGE shall, for the purposes of the review referred to
in Section 3.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement, prepare a report,
satisfactory to the Bank, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the progress of the Project until the date of such
review.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of CEDEGE
      Section 3.01. CEDEGE shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. CEDEGE shall at all times operate and maintain
the Project facilities, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
      Section 3.03. CEDEGE shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) CEDEGE shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition, including separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project.
      (b)   CEDEGE shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial state-
                  ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  4
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CEDEGE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify CEDEGE thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For CEDEGE:
            Calle Pedro Carbo 304, piso 8
            Aptdo. Postal 6722
            Guayaquil, Ecuador
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  CEDEGE                    3833
                  Guayaquil, Ecuador
Page  5
                                          Fax:
                                            322014
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CEDEGE, or by CEDEGE on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
Executive Director or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and CEDEGE shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                  COMISION DE ESTUDIOS PARA EL
                    DESARROLLO DE LA CUENCA DEL RIO
                    GUAYAS
                  By /s/ Gabriel Cabezas
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 and $2,000,000, respectively, or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ecuador may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, and works estimated to cost
Page  6
less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, adver-
tised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.    Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under con-tracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-lines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 and $250,000, res-
pectively, or more; (ii) the first two contracts for works estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $1,500,000 each; and (iii) the
first two contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $250,000 and more than the equivalent of $25,000 each, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for any such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be fur-
nished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished
to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditures.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist CEDEGE in carrying out the Project and in
the preparation of the reports referred to in Section 2.07 (b) of
the Project Agreement and in Section 9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions, CEDEGE shall employ consultants (which term may also
include consulting firms) whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" (the "Consultant Guidelines") published by
the Bank in August 1981, except that prior review by the Bank
pursuant to paragraphs 2.04, 2.09, 2.13, 2.21, 2.39, 2.41 and 2.44
of said Consultant Guidelines shall not apply to contracts (other
than the first three such contracts), for services costing the
equivalent of $30,000 or less, between CEDEGE and consultants
entered into for purposes of the Project.
2.    The contracts exempted from such prior review shall be subject
to ex post review by the Bank, and if pursuant to such review the
Bank determines that the employment of consultants under such con-
tracts is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Schedule or in the Consultant Guidelines and establishes the
Page  7
amount of expenditures in respect of such employment which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and CEDEGE, termi-
nate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to
such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan
shall be cancelled.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.    In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following princi-
ples of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods
and works referred to in Part A of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Bids for contract awards must be submitted in one single
envelope, and the name of each bidder and the total amount of
each bid, as well as any alternative proposals, if they have been
requested or permitted, shall be read aloud when opened.
2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local repre-
sentative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required to
have such a representative upon entering into contracts which they
have been awarded.
3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to CEDEGE without
recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or
entity.
4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by CEDEGE must be admissible without recertifi-
cation or other participation by any Ecuadorian bank or other
Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part.
B.    In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following princi-
ples of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods
and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on
all contracts.
2.    The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date
which shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last
advertisement of the invitation to bid.
3.    The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three
days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.    Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
C.    In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants referred to in Section II of this Schedule, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally regis-
tered as a condition of participation in the selection process, but
may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting, if
the Bank and the Borrower so agree.
2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a
joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of capable
domestic firms exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable free-
Page  8
dom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the joint
venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner
or extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not
required to associate itself with any specific named domestic firms.
3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition
to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum
capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, providing
services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian Consultants'
Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian
consultants.
