Page  1
                                                 November 11, 1991
Dr. Pablo Better
Ministro de Finanzas y Credito Publico
Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
Quito, Ecuador
            Re:   Loan No. 3276-EC (Lower Guayas Flood Control
                  Project) Amendment to Development Grant Agreement
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Development Grant Agreement between the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as
Administrator on behalf of the Minister for Development Cooperation
of the Netherlands (the Bank) and the Republic of Ecuador (the
Borrower) dated September 12, 1991.  We are pleased to inform you
that, pursuant to our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank
agrees to amend the Development Grant Agreement as follows so as to
allow for the establishment of a Special Account for the Grant:
1.    Section 1.01
      A.    Paragraph (f) of this Section is hereby amended by
inserting the word "and" immediately after the semicolon at the end
thereof.
      B.    Paragraph (g) of this Section is hereby amended by
substituting a period in place of the semicolon at the end thereof'.
     C.     Paragraphs (h) and (i) of- this Section are hereby
deleted.
2.    New Section 1.02
     A.     A new Section 1. 02 is hereby inserted at the end of
Article I of the Development Grant Agreement, which new Section
reads as follows:
     "Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings when used in this Agreement:
     (a)     the term "CEDEGE" means the Borrower's Comision de
Estudios Para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio Guayas, the entity
which shall carry out the Project as set forth in Section 3.01 (a)
of the IBRD Loan Agreement;
     (b)    the term "DFL" means Netherlands Guilders, the currency
of the Netherlands; and
     (c)    the term "Special DFL Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.".
3.    Section 2.02
     A.     Paragraph (a) of this Section is hereby amended by
substituting the words "Schedule 1" in place of the words "the
Schedule".
      B.    A new paragraph (c) is hereby inserted at the end of
this Section, which new paragraph reads as follows:
      "(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in DFL a special deposit account in Banco Central de
Page  2
Ecuador on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special DFL Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.".
4.    Section 2.05
      A.    This Section is hereby amended by substituting the words
"Section 2.02" in place of the words "Section 2.02 (a)".
5.    Section 3.01
      A.    This Section is hereby amended by inserting the words
all references to the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be
references to the Special DFL Account" immediately after the words
"this Development Grant Agreement".
6.    Schedule
     A.     The title of this Schedule is hereby amended to read
"SCHEDULE 1".
7.    New Schedule 2
     A.     A new Schedule is hereby inserted after what has become
Schedule 1 pursuant to point 6 above, which new Schedule shall read
as follows:
                            "SCHEDULE 2
                        Special DFL Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories 1 and
2  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to DFL 1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account
and deposited in the Special DFL Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special DFL Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special DFL Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special DFL Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bark shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Grant
Account and deposit in the Special DFL Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special DFL Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special DFL Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
Page  3
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                  Grant Account and deposit into the Special DFL
                  Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said
                  documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special DEL Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
     All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special DFL
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special DFL Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special
DFL Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that a
payment out of the Special DFL Account: (i) was made for expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph of this Schedule;
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnish to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special DFL Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special DFL
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that an
amount outstanding in the Special DFL Account will not be require to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special DFL
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account
Page  4
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions."
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This
amendment letter may be executed in two counterparts, each of which
shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one
fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment
letter will become effective upon receipt by the Bank of one fully
executed original of this amendment letter.  Because of their
interest in this matter, we are sending copies of this letter to the
Comision de Estudios Para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio Guayas
(CEDEGE) and to the Minister for Development Cooperation of the
Netherlands.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       / s / Ping-Cheung Loh
                             Director
                       Country Department IV
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
      /s/ Pablo R. Better
By:
   Authorized Representative
Quito, 25 de Noviembre de 1991
