Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP7521-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 96.2 MILLION (US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
ETHIOPIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
May 15, 2002
This document has a restricved distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: JULY 8 - JULY 7
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
Market mid-rate: US$1.00 = 8.02 (March 31, 2002)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADLI                Agricultural Development-Led Industrialization
AGOA                African Growth Opportunity Act
AIDS                Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BMW                 Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse
CAA                 Civil Aviation Authority
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBE                 Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CSRP                Civil Service Reform Program
EIA                 Ethiopian Investment Authority
EMCP                Expenditure Management and Control Program
EPA                 Ethiopian Privatization Agency
EPRDF               Ethiopia People's Revolutionary Democratic Front
ERSC                Economic Rehabilitation Support Credit
ESL                 Ethiopian Shipping Line
ETC                 Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation
FCSC                Federal Civil Service Commission
FIAS                Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FY                  Fiscal Year
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV                 Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HRMIS               Human Resource Management Information System
IDA                 International Development Agency
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IFMIS               Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
IPF                 Indicative Planning Figures
I-PRSP              Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
JCG                 Job Classification and Grading
MCB                 Ministry of Capacity Building
MEDaC               Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation
MEFF                Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework
MoF                 Ministry of Finance
MoFED               Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MTI                 Ministry of Trade and Industry
MTSE                Maritime Transport Shipping Enterprise
NBE                 National Bank of Ethiopia
NDP                 National Development Program
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
PEP                 Public Expenditure Plan
PER                 Public Expenditure Review
PIP                 Public Investment Program
PMO                 Prime Minister's Office
PRGF                Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
REER                Real Effective Exchange Rate
SDPIP               Service Delivery Performance Improvement Program
UN                  United Nations
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
WMS                 Welfare Monitoring System
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo
Country Director:     Ishac Diwan
Technical Manager:    Fred Kilby
Task Team Leader:     Miria Pigato



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
1.  INTRODUCTION .........................................3
H.   POLITICAL, SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT ..........................................3
A.   POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONTEXT .........................................3
B.   ECONOMIC CONTEXT .........................................5
C.   IDA'S SUPPORT AFTER 1lE WAR ..........................................7
III. ETHIOPIA'S STRATEGY FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION                     .8
A.   OVERVIEW AND KEY GOVERNMENT OBjE£rIvEs .................................................8
B.   THE PROPOSED ESAC ................................................9
C.   THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM AND AREAS OF IDA SUPPORT ..............................................9
D.   MAINTAINING POVERTY FOCUSED MACROECONOMIC POLICIES ................................................. 1 0
E.   PROMOTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ................................................ 13
F.   IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND SERVICE DELIVERY ............................................. 1 8
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .24
A.   CREDIT RATIONALE ANO COMPONENTS .............................                   24
B.   CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING ........................................... 25
C.   SUMMARY OF FIDUCIAFY ARRANGEMENTS ............................. 25
D.   REFORMS SUPPORTED ElY THE ESAC ............................. 25
E. IMPLEMENTATION ARRkNGEENTS .............................. 27
V. RECOMENDATION .27
Annex A:   Policy Matrix
Annex B:   Letter of Developnment Policy
Annex C:   Country at a Glance
Annex D:   Key Economic Indicators
Annex E:   Key Exposure Indicators, 1998-2004
Annex F:   Balance of Payments, 1998-2004
Annex G:   Social Indicators
Annex H:   Status of IDA and :(FC Operations
This operation was prepared by a taam consisting of Miria Pigato (AFTP2, Task Team Leader), Duvvuri Subbarao,
Christiane Kraus, Eyerusalem Fasika (AFTP2), Luis Tineo (PSAPP), Navin Girishankar (AFTI2), Gareth Locksley (CITPO),
Yung Rhee, Gizachew Abegaz, Marc Reichel and Andrew Singer (consultants). Peer reviewers were Anand Rajararn
(PRMPS), Jeffrey D. Lewis (PRMEP) and Ibrahim A. Elbadawi (DECRG). Fred Kilby, Sector Manager (AFTP2) and Ishac
Diwan, Country Director (AFC06), provided guidance. The report was desk topped by Tanisha McGill.



FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS (cont'd)
FIGURES
Figure 1:   Trends in Coffee Export Volume and Price
Figure 2:   REER and Terms of Trade Indices
TABLES
Table 1:    Ethiopia: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1995/96-2000/01
Table 2:    Ethiopia: Projected Macroeconomic Indicators, 2001/02-2003/04
Table 3:    Financing Requirements and Sources, 2001/02-2003/04 ($million)
BOXES
Box 1:      Economic Growth, Factor Accumulation and Productivity in Ethiopia, 1974-2001
Box 2:      Structural Reforms Supported by the ERSC
Box 3:      Ethiopia's Structural Agenda Supported by the PRGF
Box 4:      Triggers for Floating Completion Point under the Enhanced HIPC



FEDERAI, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPLA
ETHIOP[A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUIMMARY
Beneficiary:          THiE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Project Task ED:      PE-P074585-LEN
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
IDA Amount:           SDR 96.2 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms: 40 years maturity with a 10-year grace period
Disbursement:         The proposed Credit will be disbursed on effectiveness through the
National Bank of Ethiopia.
Description:          The proposed Credit supports Government's efforts in stabilizing the
economy and achieving a sustained path of growth. It builds on the
reform agenda described in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (I-PRSP) and initiated in the Economic Rehabilitation Support
Credit (ERSC), as well as on the Government Action Plan for the
current fiscal year. The ESAC is a one tranche, transition operation. It
is envisaged that it will be followed by Poverty Reduction Support
Credits (PRSCs) in later years to accompany the full PRSP which is
under preparation. The ESAC focuses on economy-wide reforms aimed
at improving the investment climate for the private sector, in support of
the Government's pro-poor growth strategy; deepening civil service
reforms and strengthening public expenditure management to improve
the quality of public services delivery. Future operations will
emphasize the deepening of these reforms, in the areas of further
private sector growth, decentralization and empowermenl, capacity
building, infrastructure and human development.
Benefits:             Within a context of peace and macroeconomic stability, the proposed
Credit will help to sustain the recovery of investment and growth and
reduce poverty. The reforms supported by the credit will lower
transaction costs for private investors and exporters, and improve the
overall business environment. Public sector management and
expenditure strengthening will increase public accountability and the
effectiveness with which essential services are delivered.
Risks:                As the peace process with Eritrea consolidates, political risks appear to
have considerably decreased in Ethiopia. However, Ethiopia remains
vulnerable to commodity price changes and droughts; and there are
institutional and fiduciary weaknesses that could impede the much-
needed improvement in public service delivery. To mitigate these
weaknesses, the Government is undertaking, in collaboration with IDA,
a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and a Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). The CFAA will assess the
strength of financial accountability processes in both the public and
1



private sectors and will design an action plan to improve financial
accountability. The CPAR will assess and discuss a program of
reforms in areas such as procurement legislation, capacity building and
monitoring. The ESAC contributes to the improvement of the fiduciary
accountability framework by supporting - inter alia - efforts to reduce
the backlog of accounts and audits and to automate personnel
management records. The Government is also discussing with IDA a
comprehensive five-year national capacity building program - which is
an essential support for the implementation of the decentralization and
private sector development programns. Finally, institutional reforms are
complex and take time. Progress in some areas - particularly the civil
service reform - is gradual and measuring the impact of reforms
initiated is difficult. Lack of immediate, tangible results may weaken
the resolve to keep the momentum going and raise questions about the
results of the program. However, the forthcoming PRSP will provide a
roadmap spanning over several years to assess Government's
commitment to the reform agenda.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO I EE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ETHIOPIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
01 SDR 96.2 (US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE. FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     I submit for your approval a proposed adjustment credit to the Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia for the equivalent of SDR 96.2 (US$120 million equivalent) to help finance
the proposed Ethiopia Struictural Adjustment Credit (ESAC). The borrower has requested the
credit to be a standard IDA, credit, for 40 years, including a 10-year grace period. The credit is
part of an Interim Support Strategy (ISS)l - endorsed by the IDA Board on December 5, 2000 - to
address Ethiopia's post-war recovery needs and help it return to a sustainable growth path. The
proposed ESAC is intended to cover the remaining $100 million of a $250 million balance of
payment support anticipated in the ISS - following the approval, in 2001, of a $150 million
Economic Rehabilitation Support Credit (ERSC)2. It would also partly cover -with $20 million-
the deterioration in the balanrce of payments due to the impact of the September 11, 2001 events.
2.     The proposed ESAC would support a medium-term reform program reflecting the
country's poverty reduction strategy. It builds on the program initiated with the ERSC and being
elaborated in the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). It would also contribute to the
implementation of the Government Action Plan for 2001/02 - which aims al improving
governance and public accountability and at increasing institutional and human capacity. The
proposed credit focuses on policy measures aimed at: (a) improving the investment climate to
accelerate economic growth and poverty reduction; (b) deepening civil service reforms and
implementing an effective decentralization program, to empower communities, facilitate the
process of democratization and improve the quality of public service delivery; and (c)
strengthening public expenditure management for a more accountable and efficient use of public
resources. The ESAC would provide Ethiopia with the opportunity to develop more fully its
poverty reduction strategy through a full PRSP, while supporting reforms that strengthen
financial management, in compliance with fiduciary safeguards required for programmatic
lending. It is expected that the proposed operation will be followed in later years by one or
several PRSCs, in support of the PRSP.
1[.  POLITICAL, SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A.   POLMCAL AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
3.     On December 12, 2000, Ethiopia signed a peace agreement that ended a two-year war
with Eritrea. A 25-km wide Temporary Security Zone, monitored by the United Nations, was
created in April 2001. Prospects for a long-lasting peace are holding. The United Nations has
deployed over 5,000 peacelceepers along the frontier. Both Ethiopia and Eritrea have accepted the
April 13, 2002 ruling of au international Border Commission on the location of the international
boundary between the two countries. Internally, the signing of the peace agreement spurred a
wave of political dissent, both inside the ruling coalition - led by the Ethiopia People's
' See IDA/R2000-198.
2 See IDA/R2001-0064.
3



Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) - and civil society at large. Student protests over
governance issues resulted in street riots in March-April 2001. Police action to crack down the
revolts, as well as the arbitrary detention of several students, journalists and opposition members
attracted international attention and condemnation. The discontent in civil society reflected the
battle, within the coalition, between hard-liners - critical of the peace accord and of the
liberalization policies embraced by the Prime Minister- and reformists.
4.    In order to provide a forum for discussion, the EPRDF organized a process of
consultations among party cadres through local and regional congresses, culminating - in
September 2001 - in the Fourth Organizational Congress. The wing of the party led by the Prime
Minister has emerged stronger from the infighting, endorsing a liberal and democratic agenda of
reforms. The Report on the Fourth Congress of the EPRDF, which was shared with IDA, sets out
the vision and strategy of the Government. It re-confirms the strategy articulated in the I-PRSP,
centering on rural development, but it gives more emphasis to the issues of improved governance,
decentralization and capacity building. The document also endorses a stronger process of
economic liberalization to facilitate the progressive integration of Ethiopia into the world
economy. In October 2001, the Prime Minister reorganized the Government to reflect the new
policy directions. New ministries for rural development, capacity building, infrastructure, federal
affairs and revenue were added.
The Challenge of Poverty Reduction
5.     Within a context of renewed political stability, the Government can now concentrate its
efforts on the primary task of poverty reduction. With an annual per capita income of $100
(compared with $480 in SSA) Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Two thirds of
the population live on less than $2 a day3. Most of the poor live in rural areas, where poverty is
accentuated by vulnerability to droughts, and by lack of access to social services as well as to
agricultural inputs and credit. There are regional disparities, and rural poverty is highest in
Tigray, the Amhara and Southern regions. Gender inequalities are also pronounced, and, on
average, women are poorer than men and have lower education and more precarious health.
6.     Ethiopia's ranking in the Human Development Index is low, 158 out of 162 countries in
2001. Life expectancy is 42 years, well below the sub-Saharan average (47 years) and has
decreased in recent years, a result of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Ethiopia has the third largest
number of people with AIDS (about 3 million) in the world and the largest population of AIDS
orphans (about 750,000). Infant mortality rates have been declining since the mid-1980s but still
exceed the regional average. Stunting (low height for age) indicators in Ethiopia are higher than
elsewhere in the region. Illiteracy rates are high, including for the young. In 2000, 46 percent of
the 15-24 age group was illiterate. However, there have been significant improvements in
primary school enrollment rates (they doubled between 1995 and 1999) suggesting that this trend
may be reversed in the future.
Progress in preparing the PRSP
7.     The I-PRSP, endorsed by the IMF and IDA4 Boards on March 19 and 20, 2001,
respectively, puts poverty reduction at the center of the government's development strategy and
reaffirms the commitment to achieve the International Development Goals by 2015. The
Government has just completed the first draft of the full PRSP, after undertaking an impressive
array of consultations, at the district, regional and national level. The PRSP process was guided
by an inter-ministerial steering committee and a technical committee. The technical committee is
leading the preparation of two studies, the first on the growth-poverty linkages, the second on the
3As per 1995 survey reported in World Development Indicators, 2001, World Bank.
4 See IDA/SecM2001-72.
4



status of poverty in Ethiopia using data from the 2000 Household Income and Expenditure
Survey (HIES); and it is working on the specification of a set of indicators to monitor progress
towards achieving poverty tirgets. A number of reports on the HIV/AIDS strategy, food security
issues and the effectiveness of agricultural extension are also being prepared. The system for
monitoring progress with the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy - to be based on
the existing Welfare Monitoring System (WMS)5 - will be broadened and deepened, to develop
welfare and poverty monitoring systems at the regional level. It is also anticipated that the
monitoring system would make appropriate use of qualitative information from different sources
inside and outside government.
B.     ECONOMIC CONTEXT
Stabilization brought impirovements
8.      Ethiopia has implemented a stabilization program and wide-ranging structural reforms
during the 1990s - with IMF and IDA        support.  The Government that took office in 1991
inherited an economy devastated by years of civil war and with a GDP per capita lower than in
the 1960s. Within an atmosphere of peace and stability, and with support from the international
community, the Government implemented a successful stabilization program. The exchange rate
was realigned and the ballance of payments improved. The fiscal deficit was substantially
reduced, the result of an increase in revenues and a marked cut back in defense expenditures.
Inflation declined from a A0 percent peak in 1991/92 to less than 4 percent in the late 1990s.
External competitiveness improved. Real GDP averaged about 6 percent during 1991/92-
1998/99. This was mostly the result of productivity increases in agriculture, obtained through the
implementation of a strong extension program and fertilizer increases, in accordance with the
agricultural development-led industrialization (ADLI) strategy. Incentives to invest improved as
a result of trade and domestic price liberalization, a revision of the investment and labor laws and
some financial sector deregulation. These structural reforms created a far more competitive
economy compared to the 1980s. During the 1990s, productivity growth improved significantly,
and it explained about 40 percent of GDP growth (see Box 1).
Box 1: Economic Growth, Factor Accumulation and Productivity in Ethiopia, 1974-1991 and 1992-2001
Betweenl974 and 1991, during the Derg period, the Ethiopian economy grew at an average rate of 2.4 percent. During
this period, total factor productivity growth was negative. GDP growth was explained by accumulation of human
capital and by a strong accumulation in capital. However, as in many socialist countries, much of the capital was
directed to low-efficiency sector:, that were partly responsible for the negative total factor productivity growth. In 1991
the new Government started a program of stabilization and structural reforms. Data suggcst that productivity growth
recovered, increasing from -1.;6 between 1974-1991 to 2.53 between 1992-2001. During the latter, TFP growth
explained 42 percent of the real GDP growth rate.
Source: Staff estimates.6
9.      The economic situation deteriorated with the intensification of the conflict with Eritrea -
which started in May 1998. In 1999/00, the fiscal deficit climbed to 11.4 percent of GDP, largely
the result of an increase irn military expenditures. In addition, Ethiopia was hit by a drought and
5 The WMS monitors the social impact of the Govemment's economic reform program and its contribution to poverty
reduction. The WMS is built around an annual review of social trends and welfare designed to: (i) present a national
and regional review of welfare indicators showing their spatial distribution and movements over time; (ii) identify poor
and vulnerable groups that reqjuire targeted assistance; (iii) assess the short and medium term effects of macro-
economic policies. The WMS is led by a Welfare Monitoring Unit which is responsible for (i) coordination of the
various elements of the system; (ii) creation and maintenance of the socio-economic database; (iii) analysis and policy
advice, and (iv) workshops and seminars at central and regional levels to disseminate and promote discussion of
information generated by the monitoring system.
6 Total factor productivity was estimated according to the methodology in Swati R. Ghosh and Aart Kraay, 2000,
"Measuring growth in total factor productivity," (PREM Note 42).
5



by a sharp fall in the terms of trade (see Table 1). Foreign exchange reserves declined to only 2
months of imports. Faced with widening fiscal and extemal imbalances, the authorities imposed a
10 percent import duty surcharge, a 100 percent advance deposit requirement and bank ceilings
for import permits. These restrictions were lifted at the beginning of 2001.
The Government resumed its reform efforts after the end of the war with Eritrea
10.     The signing of the peace accord with Eritrea in December 2000, marked the resumption
of reform efforts through the preparation of the I-PRSP. The I-PRSP included a medium term
economic strategy aimed at promoting growth through a number of reforms - in the monetary,
exchange rate management, and fiscal areas - and a competitive business environment. The
program is supported by a three-year arrangement under an IMF Poverty Reduction Growth
Facility (PRGF) and by IDA, through the ERSC and the proposed ESAC.
11.     In early November 2001, the boards of the IMF and of IDA endorsed the Decision Point
document under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative'. The document indicates that debt relief of $1275
million in Net Present Value (NPV) terms will be required to bring the NPV of debt to exports
ratio to 150 percent. Actual average debt relief flows to Ethiopia will be of the order of $90
million per year on current dollar terms, roughly equivalent to 20 percent of the annual net
foreign assistance (grants + loans) disbursed during 1998/2001.
12.     Macroeconomic progress during the first year of implementation of the reform          program
supported by the PRGF and the ERSC has been satisfactory: real GDP growth in 2000/01 reached
7.9 percent, and inflation turned negative - due to a bumper crop and large amounts of food aid
(see Table 1). According to a recent USAID report, the number of people requiring emergency
food aid is the lowest in seven years, and at 1.1 million is 63 percent lower than last year.
Table 1: Ethiopia: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1995/96-2000/01
Fiscal years                  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98 1998/99 1999/00 2000/01
(annualpercentage change)
Real GDP                        10.6     5.2     -1.2     6.3    5.4     7.9
Inflation rate (annual average)  0.9    -6.4     3.6     3.9     4.2    -7.2
Merchandise exports             -9.2    45.4     0.6    -19.6    0.4    -9.3
REER (1996/97=100), end of period  -8.2  1.2     -0.9    -1.0    -6.4    -1.2
Terns of trade (1996/97=100)    -24.1   10.5     18.1   -15.9   -33.9   -6.8
(in percent of GDP)
Fiscal deficit                  -5.6    -2.4     -4.4    -9.2   -11.4    4.8
Total expenditure               26.9    24.2     25.3    30.6    33.0   29.0
- defense                 2.0     2.0      4.9     8.7     13.1   6.2
- poverty-targeted                         9.8    10.6     8.4    10.9
Gross domestic investment       16.9     17.0    17.2    16.0    14.2    17.6
Gross domestic savings          7.0      7.9     7.7      1.2    -1.0    2.1
CAD, including official transfers  1.1  -3.0     -1.6    -7.9    -5.2   -4.2
CAD, excluding official transfers  -5.4  -6.5    -5.6   -11.2    -9.8   -10.4
Gross official reserves (in months of
imports)                        7.7      4.4     2.6     2.7     2.2     2.2
External debt/GDP**             151.0   79.9     78.5    82.4    85.3    88.3
Debt service ratio***           36.8    84.1     57.7    63.3    52.2   23.2
Source: WB database, lMF-Intemational Financial Statistics.
* Including grants; ** Before 1999/00, post debt relief; thereafter, pre-debt relief; *'* In percent of exports
of goods and non-factor services; before debt relief
CAD = Current Account Deficit.
7 See IDA/R2001-0022.
6



13.     The overall fiscal deficit (including grants) was 4.8 percent of GDP in 2000/01, a level
similar to pre-war levels. Defense expenditures were estimated to be 6.2 percent of GDP (lower
than the programmed 7.3 percent of GDP), and poverty-targeted outlays (health, education,
agriculture, natural resources and roads) reached 10.9 percent of GDP. The sharp decrease in
defense expenditures after the end of the conflict with Eritrea, as well as the availability of HIPC
interim assistance, have allowed an increase in poverty-related spending, which are critical for the
realization of the poverty reduction objectives.
14.     The trade balance deteriorated as a result of a sharp fall in export earnings (-9.3 percent
in 2000/01 over the previous year). This was due to a decline in both the price and volume of
coffee, (see Figure 1) which represents now only 40 percent of merchandise exports (down from
around 60-70 percent in pre'vious years). Between July 1998 and June 2001, coffee export prices
declined by almost 40 percent. The authorities introduced a number of measures to help the
coffee sector, which is the largest foreign currency earner and employs about 25 percent of the
labor force.8 The terms of trade fell by a further 6.8 percent in 2000/01, after a decline of 34
percent in 1999/00 (Figure 2). Ethiopia remains highly vulnerable to terms of trade fluctuations,
because of its export structure, concentrated on a few agricultural products.
Figure 1: Trends in Coffee Enport Volume and Price      Figure 2: REER and Terms of Trade Indices
c ts l i 05 i | iii iil-l -4.0c jw;o.,t
3.0 
2.0                           ''i  -
E 11l |lll 1 0                         0.r0g 
| _    CoffeeVolume C   eeR|]R _To
C.    IDA'S SUPPORT AFTER THE WAR
15.     The 2000 ISS anticipated that balance of payment financing of $250 million would be
needed from IDA to support the overall macroeconomic framework during 2000/01 and
2001/029. This was later split into two operations of which the first - a $150 million ERSC was
disbursed in July 2001. The ESAC would provide the remaining $100 million. An additional $20
million has been added to partially cover the expected deterioration in the balance of payments
that is attributed to the worsening in the global environment following the September 11, 2001
events (resulting in a decnrease in external demand, a fall in tourism revenues and in workers
remittances). The expected impact of the balance of payments for the year 2001/02 is estimated
at around $44 million - covered, besides the ESAC, by an augmentation of PRGF access (about
US$16 million, 10 percent of quota) and lower reserves.
a The authorities introduced a ccffee export price floor below which the 6 percent export tax would not be collected. As
a consequence export taxes have not been collected since May 2001; they also suspended the 5 percent withholding
income tax on proceeds from coffee exports; restrictions on the domestic sale of export quality coffee were eliminated,
and the transfer of coffee betwezn regions was facilitated. In addition, banks have been encouraged to re-finance loans
to wholesalers.
9 The ISS also included the following operations: (a) the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project ($170.6
million over three years), financing the demobilization and return of veterans to their communities, economic
reintegration assistance, medicil rehabilitation for disabled veterans, and HIV/AIDS education; (b) the Emergency
Recovery Program ($230 million over three years), financing the de-mining of the border areas, resettlement packages
for internally displaced persons and deportees, and the reconstruction of private housing and infrastructure; (c) the
Supplemental Fertilizer Import Credit ($44 million), aimed at providing an adequate supply of fertilizers.
7



16.      The ERSC provided initial support for the Government's effort to stabilize the economy,
reallocate public spending to poverty-targeted sectors and resume reform efforts in three areas:
(a) public sector management; (b) public expenditure policy and management; and (c) private
sector development and export competitiveness (see Box 2). Since the Board approval of the
ERSC in June 2001, the Government has made significant progress in the implementation of the
entire reform program. In certain areas, e.g. privatization, the program has reached further than
originally anticipated. In others, work has suffered from delays - mostly due to capacity
constraints - for example in the preparation of the civil servants pay reform.
Box 2: Structural Reforms Supported by the ERSC
.   Public sector management, including: adoption by Council of Ministers of draft Civil Service Law and a draft National
Policy on Service Delivery; launch of diagnostc survey of Job Classification and Grading (CG); completion of 1999 labor
market survey; development of criteria for integrating findings from JCG and the labor market survey in view of
formulating a medium-term pay and employment policy.
*   Public expenditure policy and management, including: establishment of a committee to facilitate the Government-donor
dialogue on public expenditure issues; agreement on an action plan to develop an improved financial management
information system; and
.   Private sector development and export competitiveness, including the adoption by the Council of Ministers of new
Voucher-based Duty exemption scheme, open to all exporters; an Amended Directive on Export Guarantee Scheme;
restricting the coverage of the export price monitoring by the NBE only to products where there are international prices are
available; shifting price information responsibility out of NBE to the Export Promotion Agency.
Implementation progress
*   The Amended Export Credit Guarantee directive became operational in June 2001; the Proclamation introducing the
Export duty Incentive Schemes and the Civil Service Law were approved by Parliament in July and December 2001
respectively; a new budget classification scheme, outlined in the version 2.1 manual, was adopted in the 2001/02 budget;
Govefmnent adopted a National Service Delivery Policy; piloting of software for records and filing system, and automation
of personnel records for 10 percent of federal civil servants was completed; and a national conference to revise the urban
land lease policy implementation was held in December 2001.
m. ETHIOPIA'S STRATEGY FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION
A. OVERVIEW AND KEY GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES
17.      The Government of Ethiopia remains firmly committed to the goals of equitable growth
and poverty reduction, as affirmed in the I-PRSP. Central to achieving these objectives is the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability; and the implementation of a strategy aimed at
stimulating a rise in the incomes in rural areas, where the majority of the poor live, and
supporting industrialization in urban areas. The rural development strategy aims at transforming
the subsistence farming into small-scale commercial agriculture - through an expansion of the
agricultural inputs and extension programs, improved access to market and credit, and policies to
upgrade human and physical infrastructure. Government's urban industrialization strategy -
which is to be handled by the municipalities-, complements the rural strategy. The Government
intends to focus only on activities where it can intervene to correct market failures, while
removing impediments to private sector activity and reducing the role of the state in the economy.
The I-PRSP outlines two other important pillars of the pro-poor growth strategy which were
supported by the ERSC: reforming the civil service to improve accountability and effectiveness;
and improving the quality of life of the poor through the decentralized provision of primary
health care, education, water and sanitation services.
18.      In October 2001, the Government presented to Parliament the work program                 for the
current fiscal year. The Action Plan for 2001/02 reflects the new strategic directions decided in
the fourth Congress of the EPDRF, which have been developed in the PRSP. These new strategic
directions have received strong support by IDA during a two days seminar between the
Government (led by the Prime Minister) and IDA (led by the Senior Vice-President and Chief
Economist). While continuing the reform          program    outlined in the I-PRSP, the Government
8



intends to focus additional efforts on three areas - accelerating the process of decentralization,
improving governance, and sIlepping up capacity building.
19.    Decentralization will be deepened by devolving exclusive responsibility for basic
services to the regions and down to woredas (districts) and kebeles. This will be achieved by
transferring staff from regional departments and the devolution of block grants by the regions to
the woredas. To be effective, this process will require that substantial resources be allocated to
build capacity, particularly at lower levels of government. The battle for good governance will
involve all aspects of the relationship between the state and society at large. First, the distinction
between executive and judiciary powers will be further clarified. Second, the Civil Service
Reform Program will be expanded to the lower levels of the administration.  Third, the
Government will accelerate tax reforms and strive to eliminate any possibility for rent seeking
opportunities. Capacity building will be an essential component of efforts to improve governance
in both the public and private sector. The government has prepared a comprehensive five-year
National Capacity Building Program to promote value creation in the private sector, deepen
democratic decentralization and improve decentralized service delivery. The newly established
Ministry of Capacity Building is discussing with IDA a multi-sector program of support.
B. THE PROPOSED ESAC
20.    The ESAC would signal IDA's support for the new policy directions expressed in the
Action Plan for 2001/02 - helping the Government translating these strategic directions into a
program aimed at raising the efficiency of both the private and public sector; as well as improving
public sector accountability and deepening decentralization reforms. It would be a single tranche,
transition operation. It is envisaged that one or several PRSCs would spring from the PRSP,
which is expected to be subrnitted to the IDA and IMF Boards in the fall of 2002. The CAS, now
in preparation, would be presented to the IDA Board with the PRSP. Within this context, the
ESAC performs three strategic functions: first, it sets out an overall framework in which reforms
in governance and public sector management as well in improving the investment climate work in
a coherent manner to further the objectives of growth and poverty reduction; second, it supports
institutional reforms that are necessary for the success of a multi-sectoral capacity building
operation - involving both lending and non-lending activities that IDA is preparing; and finally, it
helps initiate work in preparation for the PRSCs, including on gaps such as fiduciary safeguards.
21.    On the financing side, ESAC assistance is essential to provide a cushion against the
deterioration of the terms of trade. While the macroeconomic situation has improved, Ethiopia's
balance of payments remains fragile, because of the decline in export revenues and the stagnation
of external demand. Most importantly, Ethiopia faces the daunting challenge of financing
growth. While domestic investment has averaged 16 percent of GDP in recent years, compared
with levels of 28-30 percent in fast-growing countries, the savings shortfall is severe. Gross
domestic savings in Ethiopia were less than 1 percent of GDP during 1998/99-2000/01, resulting
in a shortfall of savings oi about 15 percent of GDP. Financing from IDA, as well as other
donors, is crucial to move from stabilization towards higher investment and growth. Finally, the
resources made available through the proposed ESAC are also intended to leverage critical
reforms, most of which have a fiscal impact, such as increased allocation to poverty-targeted
sectors. The additional r-sources will help finance the process of decentralization and the
improvement of service delivery for poverty reduction.
C. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM AND AREAS OF IDA SUPPORT
22.    The following sections describe the Government's medium-term reform program and the
specific measures that are adopted under the ESAC as well as the broad agreements reached on
policies that will be imple mented in the future. As already discussed, the ESAC focuses on
9



economy-wide reforms in support of the Government pro-poor growth strategy, as outlined in the
I-PRSP, the ERSC and in the Government Action Plan for 2001/02. The program aims at a)
maintaining poverty focused macroeconomic policies; b) promoting private sector development,
to accelerate investment and growth; and c) improving public sector management and service
delivery, to enhance public accountability and empower communities to improve the quality of
service delivery. Future policy reforms will deepen efforts initiated in the areas of further private
sector growth, decentralization and empowerment, infrastructure and human development. In this
way, the I-PRSP, the ERSC, this ESAC, and the subsequent PRSP and possible PRSCs represent
a series of steps which, assuming the continuation of a strong reform program, would build upon
each other to move towards an explicit set of poverty reduction outcomes over the next few years.
D. MAINTAINING POVERTY FOCUSED MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
23.      The Government has updated its macroeconomic targets during the second review of the
PRGF program (in November 2001). The review has taken into account recent macroeconomic
results - including the larger than expected decline in the terms of trade, events in the world
environment and the impact of the September 11, 2001 events. Export prices of coffee are
projected to fall further by 9.1 percent in 2001/02, and then to increase in subsequent years. The
slowdown in the world economy is likely to result in lower demand for Ethiopian exports, a
decrease in workers remittances and lower activity for the Ethiopian Airline and Shipping Lines.
24.      In light of recent events, GDP growth is projected to average less than 6 percent a year in
the next three years, down from the previous expectation of 7 percent. Achieving this objective
will depend on improving the business environment for private investment, accelerating
privatization efforts, increasing investment in infrastructure and further liberalizing the financial
sector. Measures to increase agricultural productivity will include input programs, access to
credit and marketing facilities and a major capacity building program. Monetary policy will
continue to be geared to keeping inflation to low single digits.
Box 3: Ethiopia's Structural Agenda Supported by the PRGF
The 2000/01-2002103 PRGF program is aimed at assisting Ethiopia in getting back to macroeconomic stability and sustainable
economic growth by furthering cross-border economic liberalization, sound fiscal and monetary management, and improvements in
financial sector regulation. The program includes measures related to improving monetary and exchange rate management;
implementing tax reforms and improving public expenditure management; and restructuring the financial sector. The second review of
the PRGF program was concluded on March 18, 2002. Most prior actions, structural performance criteria and benchmarks were met.
Ethiopia has established a tax reform implementation task force and a fully operational large taxpayer unit; it has submitted draft VAT
legislation to parliament; it has lifted restrictions on the payment of interest on current account deposits and it has moved the foreign
exchange operations to the interbank market However, delays occurred in the restructuring of the Development Bank of Ethiopia and
the bringing to the point of sale the construction and Business Bank of Ethiopia.
Remaining strutural actions, to be taken before 2003 include:
* Trade: designing a three-year plan for the reduction in the effective rate of protection; reduction of the un-weighted
average tariff rate from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent by 2003 and of the number of bands.
*    Financial Sector: strengthen the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE), including a revision of the Banking Law; adopt a
revised provisioning directive in line with international standards; bring to the point of sale the Construction and Business
Bank and implement a restructuring Plan of the Development Bank of Ethiopia; design a financial restructuring plan for the
Commercial Bank of Ethiopia; allow private banks to enter into management contracts with foreign institutions; and
implement the recommendations of the recent Safeguards Assessment review of the NBE.
.    Fiscal: strengthen the large taxpayer office; submit to Parliament a revised income tax law which includes enhanced
enforcement procedures and improved penalty regime; implement the tax identification number; develop and implement an
audit program to cover all taxes; continue preparation for the introduction of the VAT, expected by January 2003; reconcile
monetary and fiscal accounts; consolidate federal and regional accounts for the past year and the year, including all extra-
budgetary funds and accounts.
Source: IMF- Ethiopia, Second Review under the Three-Year Arrangement under the PRGF, March 4, 2002
25.      The medium-term       fiscal stance is consistent with a sustainable external account deficit
and low inflation. The overall fiscal budget including grants is expected to be 6.9 percent of GDP
in 2001/02 (see Table 2), about 2.1 percent higher than in the previous year. This reflects
10



additional poverty-targeted and capital outlays fully financed by concessional external assistance
and the enhanced HIPC assistance that were not included in the budget adopted in July 2001. To
reflect these developments, a supplementary budget was adopted by Parliament at end-November
2001. It also included an increase of about 7 percent in the wages of all civil servants. On the
revenue side, the fiscal strategy is based, on a tax policy and administration reform, aimed at
increasing tax revenues over the next three fiscal years. In the medium term the Government aims
at stabilizing external funding, so that the overall fiscal deficit is financed mainly by foreign
grants (including debt relief), allowing the Government to phase out domestic borrowing.
A strong increase in poverty-targeted spending
26.      On the expenditure side, the Government will continue to pursue a prudent stance,
reorienting resources away from military towards development related activities in order to attain
the social and poverty reduction targets identified in the I-PRSP. Conditions agreed for reaching
the HPC      completion point have reinforced this strategy (see Box 4). In 2001/02 defense
expenditures are expected to decline by 1 percentage of GDP relative to the previous year (to 5.2
percent); by contrast, the poverty-targeted expenditures will be increased by 4 percent of GDP, to
14.9 percent (including 0.6 percent from WPC relief). As indicated in the I-PRSP, the
Government intends to maintain minimum expenditure shares for poverty-targeted sectors, as
well as a balance between current and capital expenditures. Disbursements in poverty-targeted
sectors have closely followed commitmentsl . Analysis made in the 2001 Public Expenditure
Review" (PER) indicated that real per capita expenditures in education increased from 8.1 Birr in
1999/00 to 10.8 Birr in 2000/01. Trends in real per capita health expenditure are even more
pronounced, with an increase from 2.6 Birr to 4.0 Birr per capita in the two years.
Box 4. Triggeis for Floating Completion Point under the Enhanced HIPC
.   A full PRSP will have been prepared and implemented satisfactorily for at least one year as evidenced by the joint staff
assessment of the country's smnual progress report.
*   Continued maintenance of macroeconomic stability as evidenced by satisfactory implementation of the PRGF-supported
prograrn.
*    Strengthened public expenliture management by (i) reconciling monetary and fiscal accounts starting in fiscal year
2001/02; and (ii) consolidating federal and regional budgets for both the past year and the budget year-including all extra-
budgetary funds and accounls-at the beginning of each fiscal year, starting in 2002/03.
*   Introduced the value added tax by January 2003.
*   Financial sector reform: conipleting the financial restructuring of the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) and (i) allowing
the management of CBE lo operate on commercial principles; (ii) provisioning for non-performing loans and other
doubtful assets in line with international standard practices; and (iii) allowing and assisting private banks to enter into
management contracts with foreign institutions.
*   Agriculture: implemented s,tisfactorily an action plan agreed with IDA, to improve fertilizer input market competitiveness
and efficiency, and that includes monitorable indicators, with half-yearly assessment reports beginning in December 2002;
*   Social sectors: in education: (i) reduced primary level repetition rates from 9 percent in 1999/00 to 7 percent; and (ii) the
gross enrollment rate of girls in primary level increased from 40.7 percent in 1999/2000 to 50 percent; in health:
(i) increased DPT3 vaccinalion coverage from 40 percent in 2000/01 to 50 percent; and (ii) increased the utilization rate of
health outreach facilities (dlefined as the number of new outpatients during the year divided by total population) from
27 percent in 2000/01 to 30 percent; and HIV/AIDS: increased the distribution of condoms throughout the country by
6 million annually, starting from 50 million in 2000.
Source: Ethiopia: HIPC -Decision Point Document, October 16, 2001
27.      The Government aijms at containing the external current account deficit to 7.1 percent of
GDP in 2001/02 and to 6.2 percent of GDP in 2002/03, while raising gross reserves to 2.9 and 3.8
months of imports in the two years respectively. The balance of payments will benefit from the
recent Paris Club rescheduling agreement, and the approval of the enhanced HIPC initiative
decision point in November 2001. In the medium-term, import levels are forecast to remain high,
tO For example, during 1996/97-1999/2000 actual recurrent spending as a proportion of budgeted spending was 96
percent in both health and education.
Ethiopia-Focusing public expenditures on poverty reduction, December 2001, World Bank, ReportNo. 23351-ET
11



reflecting the increase in public and private investment. Private savings will also increase,
reflecting improvements in the financial sector and increases in personal incomes.
Table 2: Ethiopia: Projected Macroeconomic Indicators, 2001/02-2003/04
Fiscal years                     2001/02      2002/03     2003/04
(annualpercentage change)
Real GDP                                               5.8          6.0        6.0
Inflation rate (annual average)                        3.0          3.0        3.0
Merchandise Exports                                    -8.9        10.1        12.6
Terns of trade (1996/97=100)                          -6.6          3.6        4.1
(in percent of GDP)
Fiscal deficit'                                       -6.9         -5.9         4.1
Total expenditure                                     31.1         29.8        28.1
- defense                                      5.2          4.5         3.8
- poverty-targeted                             14.9         14.9        14.6
Gross domestic investment                              18.6        19.3        20.0
Gross domestic savings                                 2.4          4.3        6.3
CAD, including official transfers                      -7.1        -6.2        -4.6
CAD, excluding official transfers                     -11.5        -10.2       -8.4
Gross official reserves (in months of imports)         2.9          3.8        4.1
Extemal debt/GDP**                                    91.6         90.0        83.8
Debt service ratio***                                 22.7         20.6        18.8
Source: WB database, IMF-Intemational Financial Statistics.
* Including grants; ** pre-debt relief; "' In percent of exports of goods and non-factor services, before
debt relief CAD = Current Account Deficit
28.       Financing requirements. Near term           financing requirements for the balance of payments
are shown in Table 3. The total financing need is expected to average $974 million per year
between 2001/02-2003/04. Annual disbursement of official long-term loans amounts to $493
million a year and grants to about $300 million a year. Foreign direct investment would
contribute to the financing requirements with 5 percent on average per year. EMF credit and debt
relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative, would close the remaining financing gap12.
Table 3: Financing Requirements and Sources, 2001/02 - 2003/04
Fiscal years                                  2001/02*     2002/03*    2003/4*
(a millions)
Financing Requirements                                                            1047         1025        851
Current account deficit, excluding official transfers/grants                    771          729         666
Loan amortization"                                                              105          96          101
Reserves increase of Monetary Authority                                         158          183         68
Other financing requirements"'                                                   13          17          16
Financing Sources                                                                 1,047       1,025        851
Foreign direct investment (net)                                                  40          60          70
Loan disbursement (incl. IDA emergency program and ESAC)                        611          522         347
IMF credit (net)                                                                 22          13          15
Official transfers/grants                                                       296          288         304
Debt relief (PC, Naples terms)"**"                                               40          37          24
Remaining gap (HIPC)'****                                                        39          105         91
*Estimates; ** Includes debt service to Russia on ruble before up-front discount through 199912000; thereafter after up-front discount;
"'Ethiopian Airlines and other public enterprises; ****Includes 1997 Paris Club rescheduling agreement (with Russia) under Naples terms,
covering maturities up to end-1998; ***"Actual delivered relief projection.
12 IDA disbursements are being discussed in the context of the upcoming Country Assistance Strategy.
12



29.    Risks. Sustaining economic growth in Ethiopia is difficult. Output and exports remain
dependent on agriculture, which leaves Ethiopia vulnerable to droughts, plant diseases and
commodity price fluctuations. Changes in the price of coffee, or oil, are of particular concern.
However, these risks should be mitigated by the implementation of the reform program supported
by the ESAC, which is expected to foster private sector development and, in the medium-term,
export diversification. Furthermore, the availability of finance from development partners, as well
as debt relief, will provide sufficient cushion against external shocks.
Program supported by the ES.4C
30.    The ESAC supports maintaining poverty focused macroeconomic policies, and the
continuation of a stable macroeconomic framework under the three-year PRGF arrangement-
approved on March 22, 2001- and the reallocation of public expenditure from defense to poverty-
targeted sectors. The second annual review of the PRGF was discussed at the IME Board on
March 18, 2002. The budget for 2001/02, is consistent with the objectives of the medium- term
macroeconomic framework, including the reallocation of public spending to the social sectors.
E.    PROMOTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
31.    Since 1992, Ethiopia. has implemented a program of structural reforms to promote the
development of the private sector and improve the business environment. The exchange rate was
realigned and the economy was exposed to external competition through trade liberalization. A
privatization program was initiated in the mid-1990s and is ongoing. Regulatory reforms have
included the elimination of e_xport subsidies and taxes (except on coffee), the removal of controls
on production and marketing, and the deregulation of road transport. The Ethiopian Investment
Authority was introduced in 1994 and the Investment Code was revised twice. A financial sector
reform, which started in the early 1990s, is being accelerated.
32.    IDA lending and policy dialogue have addressed many of the constraints to private sector
development in Ethiopia. 'The ERSC supported a number of measures to improve export
competitiveness and reduce the role of the State in the economy. The report "Developing exports
to promote growth", recently discussed with the Government, has provided the analytical
underpinning for many of thde policy measures proposed in the ESAC. To facilitate the dialogue
with the private sector, the authorities, in collaboration with IDA, have launched a comprehensive
survey of enterprises. The survey would provide firm-level information to analyze the
characteristics and performance of firms, as well as the policy environment in which they operate.
Findings from the survey will help shaping up the private sector reform agenda in the PRSP and
in the CAS.
Main issues
33.    Although Ethiopia has pursued a comprehensive agenda of structural reforms since the
early 1990s, private investments (currently less than 9 percent of GDP) remain low. Per capita
real exports are among the lowest in the world. Traditional exports (particularly coffee) have
suffered a setback in recent years - not only because of a decline in prices, but also due to sector
specific constraints. Livestock, as well as hides and skins and leather exports have suffered from
the consequences of parasitic diseases. The business environment is perceived as being restrictive
and non transparent. Bureaucratic controls over production and trade adversely affect the private
sector's efficiency. Foreign, investment is permitted in a limited set of activities and is subject to
minimum capital requirements. Investors and exporters alike complain about the absence of an
efficient market for land leases13 and banks do not accept land as collateral. State participation in
13 In Ethiopia, the Constitution provides the State with ownership rights of all land and natural resources. Conditions
for lease holding permits, duration and tertnination of leases and redistribution of land are specified in Ihe Urban Land
13



the economy has been slow in making room for an emerging private sector; and private
participation in infrastructure continues to face significant obstacles.
34.     High transaction costs, resulting from  regulatory constraints, are still discouraging
investment and exports. For example, transportation and insurance costs are among the highest in
the world (11 percent of total trade in 1999, compared with an average of 3-5 percent in Asian
countries) - the result of geography and poor infrastructure as well as lack of competition. The
protection of the Government-owned shipping line and airline results in additional costs to traders
and in poor service quality. The telecom penetration rate is 5 telephones per 1000 people, about
half the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. And despite a number of efforts to reform the financial
sector, private entrepreneurs find it very difficult to have access to bank credit and capital.
Ethiopia's private sector reform agenda
35.     The I-PRSP describes the Government's strategy for promoting the development of the
private sector and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. Many of these reforms have
been supported by the ERSC. Others, supported by the PRGF, are in progress. They include a tax
reform- aimed at improving horizontal equity of taxation among medium-and large-scale firms
and at increasing revenue; a further reduction of nominal tariffs; and a financial sector reform
- aimed at strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework, increasing competition and
bank soundness. The reform draws on the authorities medium-term financial sector strategy and
on the recommendations of a recent IMF-World Bank report 4. The Government is discussing
with IDA and other donors its rural development strategy, including a stronger private sector
participation in the agricultural inputs market (particularly fertilizer). FIAS is advising the
Government on ways to restructure the Ethiopia Investment Authority and on the revision of the
incentive framework for investments.
36.     The ESAC would support the Government's private sector reform program in three main
areas: (i) improving the business environment; (b) reducing transaction costs; and (iii) increasing
export competitiveness. Future IDA operations - which are being discussed in the forthcoming
CAS - will tackle remaining issues, e.g. private participation in infrastructure, the opening up of
the fertilizer market to the private sector, and the modernization of private sector legislation.
Improving the business environment
37.     The Government has an ambitious agenda for improving the business environment,
which includes enhancing domestic competition, liberalizing the regulatory regime for foreign
investment, improving the functioning of the land lease market and reducing the role of the State
into the economy:
*   Competition. The Action Plan for 2001/02 emphasizes the need to reduce
opportunities for rent-seeking, and to eliminate anti-competitive practices.
Ethiopia lacks a basic regulatory and institutional framework to provide a level
playing field and to ensure an efficient functioning of domestic markets and
consumer protection. The Govermnent intends to progressively build such a
framework as well as the administrative structures for domestic competition.
Lease Holding (Proclamation No. 80/1993) and in the Federal Rural Land Administration (Proclamation No. 89/1997).
The administration of land legislation is implemented at the regional level.
14 Drawing on the conclusions of the report, the authorities are considering a number of reforms to strengthen the
financial sector. In addition to those already listed in Box 3, they include: (a) adopting regulations for the provisioning
of non-performing loans and other doubtful assets in line with international best practices; (b) allowing a bankers'
association to be formally established; (c) strengthening the NBE.
14



*   Regulatory regime for foreign investments. The Ethiopia Investment Authority
(EIA) is revising the framework for FDI, to improve the attractiveness of
Ethiopia to foreign investors. In particular, minimum capital requirements will be
eliminated for 100 percent export-oriented activities and reduced for other types
of investments; and restricted areas will be reduced. The new Law will promote
export-oriented, non-equity based foreign collaboration; and streamline
bureaucratic proceelures with regards to investment permission and its renewal,
technology agreements and work permits.
*  Land lease markers. In December 2001, the Addis Ababa City Government
sponsored a conference to discuss the implementation of land policies and
regulations. Findings from the conference have been informing the process of
revision of existing legislation. The proposed revised Federal Urban Land Lease
Proclamation, would secure the lease rights, improve the functioning of the land
lease market, and facilitate the use of land as collateral.
*  Privatization. Ethiopia's privatization program began in 1995, about a year after
Proclamation No. 87/94 had established the Ethiopian Privatization Agency
(EPA). Between 1996/97 and 2000/01, the Government has brought to the point
of sale 166 state owned enterprises. However, the enterprises sold were
significantly less Ihan those put on sale'5. In 1998/99, privatization revenues
reached 1.7 percent of GDP, but declined to 0.8 percent of GDP in 2000/01. The
privatization process is well organized, and conducted in an open and
competitive framework. EPA plans to complete the privatization program of the
111 enterprises - which started at the beginning of 2000/01, by the end of
2002/03.
Program supported by the ESAC
38.    The Council of Ministers has approved three new draft laws: (i) a Trade Practice
Proclamation covering anti-competitive practices, unfair trade practices and consumer protection;
(ii) a draft amended Federal Urban Land Lease Proclamation, revised to: secure lease holding and
transfer rights; remove constraints on the secondary lease market; and establish the use of
leasehold rights as collateral; and (iii) a draft amended Investment Code revised to: remove the
minimum investment recquirements for 100 percent export oriented activities; transfer the
administration of duty free capital good imports for 100 percent export-oriented investments from
EIA to the Customs administration; and promote export-oriented non-equity based foreign
collaboration.
Reducing transaction costs
39.    In the near future, the Government strategy for reducing transaction costs for investors
and exporters aims at improving transport and telecom services while reducing their costs.
*  Reducing protecthon for the shipping line. As in many countries, the national
shipping line, the Ethiopian Shipping Lines (ESL) enjoys monopoly rights.
Current arrangements are that no commercial bank may open a Letter of Credit
for an import from one of the 30 countries currently served by ESL vessels,
unless the shipping space is booked with ESL. Operators need to receive a waiver
from ESL for using another shipping line, even for countries not covered by the
ESL. This arrangement curbs buyer choice, and, according to users, results in
reduced quality of service and higher costs. Current arrangements between the
15 Only about 100 enterprises were sold. Enterprises were not sold because of lack of demand, or because of worsening
prospects in some sectors (e.g. coffee sector). In the textile sector the Government has experimented - successfully-
with foreign management contracts and leases (for the firms that could not been sold).
15



ESL and the Maritime Transport Shipping Enterprise (MTSE), the state-owned
forwarder and transit enterprise, have the effect of extending monopoly rights to
MTSE. While the Government wishes to maintain some protection for the
national shipping line, the principle has been established that the current
monopoly rights are a transitional measure. As a first step to reduce protection, it
has been decided to limit the adverse effects of the arrangement on shipping
service users. Thus, the prices charged by ESL, the service quality, waivers
given to operators and overall performance will be monitored on a regular basis.
*   Telecom reform. The government is considering strategic options for the future of
the telecom sector, and it intends to open up the Ethiopian Telecommunications
Corporation (ETC) to a strategic partner. While a strategic partner will bring
management skills and technological 'know how', the challenge of ensuring the
participation of Ethiopia in the information revolution remains formidable.
There are various options for extending access, particularly in rural areas and the
Government is evaluating them. A modem and efficient regulatory framework is
also necessary to support further market expansion. These strategic issues are
discussed in a 'Communications Strategy Paper' outlining the Govermnent's
vision and strategy.
*  Air cargo. The possibility of chartering cargos is important for exporters to deal
with the occurrence of seasonal peaks, particularly in carrying flowers and other
perishables to Europe. Ethiopian Airlines has only one dedicated cargo plane
suitable for such purpose. The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) allows individual
cargo requests on a discretionary, case-by-case basis. The result is that neither
exporters nor air cargo carriers have a clear understanding of the rules of
operation. Thus, the Government has decided that the CAA will regularize and
codify the rights and responsibilities of cargo charter flight operators.
Program supported by the ESAC
*   Adoption by the Ministry of Trade and Industry of a Directive: (i) mandating
that a single bill of lading be issued by ESL for each consignment naming the
actual importer as consignee; and (ii) creation of a system under said ministry for
the monitoring, on a regular basis, of prices, service quality, practices and overall
performance of ESL, including reviews of countries subject to ESL's monopoly
rights"6.
*   The Ministry of Infrastructure has submitted to the Council of Ministers a
Communications Policy, discussing the vision and strategy to reach universal
telecom access, options for the participation of strategic partners in ETC and the
timetable for liberalization of the market and additional private participation in
the sector.
*   The Civil Aviation Authority has issued a Circular which defines the specific
conditions under which air cargo charter flights may operate to and from
Ethiopia.
Increasing export competitiveness
40.    In view of the recent decline in export earnings, the Government intends to take a number
of measures to boost export performance. Urgent actions have already been taken to help the
16 Currently, the monopoly rights granted to ESL extend to imports from a list of 30 countries. But the list includes
several countries where current import traffic is marginal and/or where ESL rarely calls. This situation unnecessarily
adds cost and delays onto import transactions. Thus, the Committee would regularly monitor and review the list of
countries for which ESL has monopoly rights.
16



sector dealing with the effect of a prolonged decline in export prices. In the 2001/02 Action Plan,
the Government signaled its intention to move from the present coffee auction system to a
Commodity Exchange, thal: would serve as a trading platform for a range of agricultural
commodities, including coffee. This is an opportunity to review the entire regulatory framework
and marketing arrangements. Measures will also be taken to promote exports of hides and skins.
The Government intends to review the overall functioning of the integrated sector - from hides
and skins to the tanneries and the leather industry, with a view to eventually moving towards the
replacement of the export ban on raw hides and skins with a tariff.
41.   In August 2001 the Government obtained certification under the African Growth
Opportunity Act (AGOA). AGOA represents the single most important opportunity for Ethiopia
to start a significant export take-off on the basis of garments - which, under the Act, can be
exported to the United States quota and tariff free. But the initiative is short lived. To benefit
from the AGOA, and attract foreign investors, the Government intends to introduce a liberal
import and FDI regime. This involves issuing the required directives to implement Proclamation
249/2001 - approved in July 2001 - which introduces three essential export duty incentive
schemes for allowing exporters to import inputs at world prices. To improve export financing, the
National Bank of Ethiopia intends to improve cuffent regulations on suppliers' credit, and to
reduce the 2 percent service charge currently levied on franco-valuta imports.
Program supported by the E'SAC
*  Customs Authority has issued a Directive which implements the Bonded
Manufacturing Warehouse Scheme; in parallel, the Ministry of Trade and
Industry has is;ued a Directive implementing the Export Duty Incentive
Schemes.
*  The NBE has amended the Suppliers Credit Directive to remove the debt/
equity ratio requirement for foreign credits and loans for exports.
*  The NBE has almended the Directive to reduce the 2 percent service charges
imposed on frarico-valuta imports.
*  Terms of reference have been prepared for a study to consider and review all
issues pertaining to coffee marketing with a view of setting up an efficient
coffee commodity exchange; and for designing a self contained regulatory
framework for the introduction of a commodity exchange.
*  Terrns of refercnce have been prepared for a study of the market for raw
hides and skins. This study to consider the overall impact of transforming the
export ban into a tariff; a Steering Committee has been set up to lead the
study, including representatives from farmers, traders, processors, and the
tanneries.
Program for 2002/03 and lbeyond
42.    Following Parliament's approval of the Trade Practices Proclamation, the Government
will create an administrative authority to oversee the functioning of the law. Equally, after the
approval of the revised Federal Urban Land Lease Proclamation, the Government will implement
ancillary legislation and review relevant legislation to ensure consistency with the revised law.
Future steps in the area of FDI would include the simplification of procedures to obtain work
permits and visas.
43.    The privatization program of Ill state owned enterprises, which had begun in 2000/01,
will be completed by 2002/03. As to the telecom sector, the ETC will be prepared to introduce a
strategic partner. The Government will adopt and implement the recommendations of the
Communications Policy; and at the same time it will enhance the frequency management capacity
17



of ETA. It will also consider the recommendations of the ESL strategy study, including the
recommendations to achieve full commercial viability. More competition will be introduced in
the ground handling operations of the airports: after separating the CAA into a regulatory and an
operations body, the latter will enter into the ground handling market, in competition with
Ethiopian Airlines. The performance of the Export Duty Incentive Schemes will be reviewed.
Continuing the efforts to improve export financing, the NBE will assess the effectiveness of the
revised Directive on Suppliers' s Credit and it will assess the operational performance of the
revised Export Credit Guarantee Scheme. Finally, the two studies on the coffee exchange and on
hides and skins will be carried out and the recommendations reviewed with all concerned parties
prior to implementation.
F.   IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND SERVICE DELIVERY
44.    Building a fair, efficient and ethical civil service has been a Government priority since
the launch, in 1996, of the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP). The program was built on five
pillars: (i) Expenditure Control and Management, (ii) Human Resource Management, (iii) Service
Delivery and Quality of Service, (iv) Top Management Systems, and (v) Ethics. It aimed at
establishing the legal framework and enabling the environment for a modem civil service;
improving service delivery; and enhancing the transparency of personnel management systems.
Implementation of the CRSP suffered from delays during 1997-2000 because of the effects of the
war, poor coordination, and limited managerial capacity. However, with the return of peace and
stability, reform efforts - also supported by the ERSC - were intensified. Progress included the
approval, by the Council of Ministers, of a civil service law (approved by Parliament in
December 2001) and a code of ethics, a national charter of citizens' rights and responsibilities, a
financial management proclamation and a national service delivery policy. In addition,
procedures and manuals for budget preparation and execution and procurement were prepared.
Main issues
45.    While important, CSRP initiatives have had, so far, only a modest impact in relieving the
institutional and capacity constraints within the Ethiopian civil service. The design and
sequencing of CSRP activities was initially focused on the federal level of government - resulting
in a modest impact on the institutional and service delivery performance at the local level. The
strengthening of core budgeting and administrative systems was not linked to a restructuring of
roles and salaries. Moreover, the reforms were not accompanied by capital investments in
infrastructure, restructuring of institutional and legal frameworks, and capacity building. The
importance of these aspects for improving service delivery has been underlined in recent Ida's
work on decentralization (a Regionalization study, a Woreda study and annual Public
Expenditure Reviews).
46.    Among the various components of the CSRP, the Expenditure Management and Control
Program (EMCP) was supported by the ERSC, and partly re-defined in the context of the HIPC
Enhanced Initiative, with the preparation of an action plan to track poverty-related expenditure.
The public expenditure management system has both strengths and weaknesses.17 For example,
spending agencies must keep each line item of expenditure within approved estimates. Transfers
between public bodies, or from recurrent to capital expenditure, as well as supplementary
expenditure requires legislative approval. Budget outturns in aggregate tend to be very close to
the outlays. On the negative side, linkages between planning, policy and budgetary allocations
remain weak. Adherence to the financial calendar - which specifies the timing of budget
formulation, execution and monitoring- is yet to begin, and the Regions find out very late the
'7 An evaluation of Ethiopia's budgetary systems in the context of the enhanced HIPC initiative was conducted in
November 2001 and included in the 2001 PER "Focusing expenditures on Poverty Reduction", Report No. 23351-ET
(Appendix 1, Vol. II).
18



amount they will get as part of the federal subsidy. Last year the backlog in reporting was two
years for the federal accounts and three years for the consolidated federal/regional accounts and
audits. Significant efforts have been undertaken in recent months to reduce the backlog of
accounts and audits at all levels'8.
Ethiopia's public sector maniagement program
47.     The Government has recently refocused the CSRP emphasizing improved service
delivery, as well as democratic decentralization. It has embarked on a major reorganization of
ministries and mandates, developing a wide-ranging National Capacity Building Program
(NCBP), as well as introducing various initiatives to support devolution such as block grants to
woredas. Efforts to strengtheni public sector governance are being supported - inter alia- by IDA
under the preparation facilities for the proposed Capacity Building for Decentralized Delivery
Project. Within this context, the ESAC supports the Government's efforts to improve service
delivery through: (i) strengthening the legal and strategic framework for civil service reform, (ii)
improving expenditure management and prioritization, (iii) enhancing incentives to perform, and
(iv) promoting fiscal monitoriing and accountability.
Strengthening the civil serviice strategic and legal framework
48.     The responsibility for the overhaul of the strategic framework of the CSRP has been
given to the newly establislied Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB). Summary guidelines,
manuals, and policies developed under the CSRP have been compiled and are being disseminated
at the federal and regional levels. The MCB is reviewing the structure of the original CSRP with
a view towards consolidating and reorganizing its core elements, and developing an
implementation modality that would ensure an effective and efficient roll-out across regions.
49.     Central to the Government's new strategic framework for CSRP is the recently approved
Civil Service Proclamation. The Proclamation establishes the legal basis for a modern, more
decentralized civil service, and opens the way for accompanying legislation, policies, and reforms
in areas such as ethics, personnel management, financial management, and service delivery
standards. The Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) has made progress in developing
training materials for the enforcement of the law and subsidiary directives such as those
governing grievance, and recourse. A recently drafted grievance procedures system fits within the
legal provisions of the proclamation.
Program supported by the E'AC
* The Council of Ministers has approved the civil service grievance system and
procedures.
Improving expenditure maicagement and prioritization
50.    Government's current efforts to strengthen the EMCP involve three main directions: (i)
moving from incremental budgeting to a system of medium-term expenditure planning based on
three-year estimates, (ii) transitioning from the traditional dual budget to one that integrates the
planning of capital and recurrent expenditures; and (iii) tracking of public expenditures.
18 A recent European Commission-sponsored study to review the quality of financial controls in Ethiopia has concluded
that they are strong, and there is no evidence of overspending. The major weaknesses of the system are: i) the budget
process is constrained by lack of resources and time; ii) the reporting process is delayed due to lack of qualified staff at
the local government level; iii) the role played by Intemal Audit is confused and ineffective; and iv) the extemal audit
departnent is understaffed and, as a result, is not capable of fulfilling all of its duties.
19



51.    From  incremental budgeting to medium-term planning. The Government financial
regulations require systematic medium-term planning of expenditures. A federal Macroeconomic
and Fiscal Framework (MEFF) is to be prepared each year, on the basis of which funds available
for federal recurrent and capital expenditure and for the regional subsidy are to be calculated.
The MEFF is expected to provide the basis for the setting of ceilings-Indicative Planning
Figures (IPFs)-for the capital expenditures of federal public bodies, which are consolidated into
a three-year rolling Public Investment Program (PIP). In turn, the PIP is intended to be a stepping
stone towards a Public Expenditure Plan (PEP), which would program federal recurrent as well as
capital expenditure. A financial calendar, developed as part of the budget reform, spells out the
responsibilities of different bodies as well as the annual timing of each stage of the exercise. So
far, preparation of MEFFs and the PIP have remained a technical exercise and the Government
has had difficulties in adhering to the financial calendar. By contrast, reforms in the area of
budget formulation have moved ahead. Recent steps include the adoption of a new classification
system and a chart of accounts - described in Version 2.1 of the Budget Reform Design Manual-
in the federal Government's budget for 2001/02. This will ensure - inter alia - common coding
across recurrent and capital budgets, and it would assign unique revenue codes to each (donor or
domestic) source of funding. The new classification will be rolled over to the regions in the next
2-3 years.
52.    The ESAC supports the preparation and adoption by the Council of Ministers of a new
MEFF and IPFs for the period 2002/04. Political support and government compliance with the
annual budgeting cycle as well as the timely issuance of IPFs for medium-term planning are
critical to the evolution of a robust public expenditure management system. In particular, by
knowing early enough the amount of their resource envelope, the Regions will be able to have a
better match between expenditure allocation and the communities - thus enhancing the poverty
sensitivity of public expenditures.
53.    Development of an integrated budget. The adoption of a MEFF and of IPF, as well
adherence to the financial calendar, would facilitate the shift from the PIP to the PEP - which
requires the integration of capital and recurrent spending as a basis for medium-term planning.
Until recently, the former Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation prepared the
capital budget (and was mainly responsible for the PIP) and the former Ministry of Finance
prepared the recurrent budget. Thus, efforts to move from the PIP to a PEP were complicated by
separate planning and finance ministries, and similarly, planning and finance bureaus at the
regional level. Responding to this concern, in October 2001 the Government consolidated the
two ministries into the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED).
54.    Tracking of public expenditures. The recent introduction of a new chart of accounts
facilitates better tracking of expenditures across functional and economic classifications and also
links them to the source of funding. The new system - once is rolled out to the regions, starting
in 2002/03 - will allow better tracking of public expenditures across the decentralized system.
The overall composition of public expenditure will continue to be tracked both at the federal and
regional levels, in the context of the annual PERs, with the collaboration of Ethiopia's
development partners. The 2001 PER has marked the first attempt to review public expenditure
at the regional level. The 2002 PER will focus on (i) spending in the social sectors; and (ii)
regional issues, particularly sub-regional transfers in the context of the ongoing process of
deepening decentralization. The expected reinforcement of the Welfare Monitoring System -
supported by IDA in the context of the PRSP - would enhance the assessment of the impact of
public spending on the poor and will enable the monitoring of public expenditure from a quality
point of view. It is expected that current reforms will result, in the medium-term, in a significant
improvement in the process of monitoring and evaluation of public spending.
20



55.    In connection with the enhanced HIPC initiative, the Government has agreed with IDA
and the IMF that the system for tracking the use of savings arising from HIPC interim assistance
would entail the following19: (i) the transfer of savings to a separate holding account at the
federal level, and from that account to separate holding accounts at the regional levels, from
which the funds are transfenred to woredas or implementing agencies, in support of sectoral
development programs; (ii) regional Governments and zonal and woreda administrations must
confirm the receipt of the transfer (within one month) and the purposes for which it is used; (iii)
the HIPC savings will be closely monitored as part of the overall monitoring of Sectoral
Development Programs; (iv) regional governments will require their auditors to carry out random
audits on the use of the funds, and the audits will then be published.
Program supported by the ES,C
*  The Council of Ministers has approved and notified to Parliament the Macro-
Economic and Fiscal Framework and the 2002-04 Indicative Planning Figures.
* The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development has initiated technical
assistance to select regions on carrying forward their multi-year planning and
budgeting.
*  A joint budget call has been issued with a common calendar for the submission
of the recurrent and capital budgets for 2002/03.
Enhancing incentives to perlorm
56.    Critical to the improvement in service delivery are the incentives for individual civil
servants to perform their duties and carry out their responsibilities in a client-driven manner.
Equally important are the incentives of ministries or regional bureaus to enhance agency-level
output performance, and thereby impact sectoral outcomes. There are two key initiatives to
improve both individual as well as agency-level incentives to perform-the preparation of a
medium-term wage policy, and the development of a Service Delivery Performance Improvement
Program for public bodies.
57.    Pay and Employment Reform. In the 2001/02 budget, the Government introduced an
across-the-board salary increase, for all civil servants. The increase was a one-time exercise that
did not explicitly address structural issues in the existing pay and grading system. In parallel, it is
reviewing the position and grading of various job classes, as well as the structure of civil servants
wages. Such a review would provide a basis for the development of a medium-term pay and
employment reform-designed to rationalize existing hierarchies and ensure more competitive
compensation to civil servants relative to the private sector-that is affordable and consistent
with the performance goals of the Government.
58.    A number of labor market surveys were conducted in the past to ascertain the
competitiveness of civil service wages vis-a-vis private sector counterparts. A second round of
surveys has been initiated taking 1999 as a benchmark, with the inclusion of new groups of
workers. A Job Classification and Grading (JCG) exercise seeks to revise the job classification
and grading system within the civil service to allow for greater flexibility in personnel and wage
management policies. The findings are currently being disseminated and discussed with civil
servants and professional associations. Recommendations from the JCG, as well as from the
labor market surveys will be used to prepare new job grading. Subsequently, the Government
intends to develop a range of medium-term wage and grading reform scenarios. The scenarios-
which will include medium-term salary targets for various classes of workers-would be costed
19 For 2001/02, the year in which HlPC interim assistance has started, the use of interim assistance consistent with the
broad allocation between poverty-taigeted sectors has been detailed in the supplementary budget.
21



within the available resource envelope projected in the MEFF and PEP for 2002/03-06. It is
envisaged that a proposed pay and grading reform will be submitted to Cabinet for approval as
part of the 2003/04 budget. At the same time, manuals for carrying out labor market surveys,
JCG exercises, and wage reform scenarios will be prepared for implementation at the regional
level.
59.     Service Delivery Performance Improvement Program     (SDPIP). Line agencies can be
given an incentive to implement restructuring and performance improvement programs through
capacity building resources upon meeting performance targets. The Government has prepared a
SDPIP, which would include (i) reviews of legislative mandate, role, functions, and
accountability relationships, as well as (ii) the development of an implementation plan for
restructuring and performance improvement. Such an approach-applied in each line agency or
regional bureau-would better integrate the goals of the CSRP, and provide a basis for
implementing reforms on an agency-by-agency basis at the federal and regional levels.
Program supported by the ESAC
*   The job classification and grading exercise, including new job groupings and
grades has been completed.
*   Labor market surveys against 1999 benchmarks and for new grades have been
launched; and
*   The SDPIP has been developed and implementation has started in key agencies
at the federal level and selected regional bureaus.
Improving fiscal monitoring and accountability
60.     The Government's EMCP has placed strong emphasis on budget execution, including
improving the design and timeliness of accounts preparation and reporting. The importance of
regular and reliable reporting as the basis for fiduciary accountability, particularly within regions,
is critical to the success of the decentralization reform. Equal emphasis is being put on better
monitoring of personnel management practices, at both the federal and regional levels.
61.     Improving the quality offiscal data. A critical step towards improving the quality of
fiscal data is the Government's ongoing effort to replace its single entry cash management system
with a double entry book-keeping modified cash accounting system. A manual (Manual 3 of the
accounts reform) has been prepared. The new accounting system, which has been adopted for the
2002/03 budget, will also be reflected in an upgrade of the Budget, Disbursements and Accounts
(BDA) system. The upgrade and roll-out of BDA provides an important transitional step for the
eventual implementation of the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)20,
which is intended to operate on a double entry accounting system21. The development of a Wide
Area Network to provide a platform for the roll-out of IFMIS is in progress. The IFMIS will
enable an accurate and effective flow of financial information across government agencies,
thereby providing the basis for efficient financial controls and management.
20 The IFMIS is a key initiative expected, through the generation of accurate, accessible, and timely government-wide
financial information and reports, to support public sector management and the quality of service delivery. It is to be
implemented in 145 public sector institutions in Addis Ababa, and also nine regional councils. A three-phase approach
has been adopted for implementation: i) core budgeting and accounting system; ii) tax revenue system, debt
management, payroll and procurement systems; and iii) asset management, and inventory management systems. The
pilot phase, including the development of the accounting application will be in the Federal Government. Subsequently
there will be a roll-out to the regions.
21 Technical assistance from the European Union has financed the design of the IFMIS system architecture. Bidding
documents have been prepared for the review of a package solution, which would then undergo customization and
piloting.
22



62.    The Government is giving high priority to clearing the existing backlog in the preparation
of federal and regional accounts and audits. Delays are inevitable due to the nature of the federal
system. Woredas report to the zonal administrations, which in turn report to the regions. The final
accounts are reported to the 1ederal government. Even if the accounting system at all levels of
government was fully computerized-currently only four regions have a computerized system
and all other reporting is done manually-it would take some time for the elimination of the
regional backlog. The preparation of the audits will closely follow that of the accounts.
63.   Improving transparency of personnel practices.  Increasing autonomy in personnel
management implies better mionitoring and inspection by the FCSC and civil service bureaus in
the regions. As part of the larger effort, the FCSC plans to develop a government-wide Human
Resource Management Information System to ensure access to real-time information on
personnel management within federal civil service. As an initial step, the FCSC has piloted a
Records and File System, in order to manage personnel data for all federal civil servants. By
December 2001, personnel data for 10 percent of civil servants were automated in a centralized
manner by the Commission. Automation of personnel records should be completed well before
the end of the calendar year; while the data conversion would be completed in a centralized
manner with training for end-users in line ministries. The completion of automation would
include a reconciliation exerciise with the existing payroll records in MoFED.
Program supported by the ESAC
*  Closure and consolidation of accounts at the federal level for 1999/00; closure
and consolidation of the federal and regional accounts up to 1998/99 and
initiation of financial audits for 1998/99.
*  Roll-out plan for Budget, Disbursements, Accounts system has been prepared,
incorporating the new budget structure in the regions and transition to IFMIS.
*  The Government has reviewed options for using wireless technology for the
development of a Vide-Area Network.
*  Automation of 50 percent of all personnel records at the federal level has been
achieved, with action plan for reconciliation with payroll data.
Program for 2002/03 and beyond
64.   In the years ahead, the Government will continue implementing the CSRP reform.
Training for civil servants on the legal and procedural aspects of the civil service law and related
directives will be introduced at both the federal and regional levels. The Government plans to
adhere to the financial calendar for the overall annual planning and budgetary cycle leading to the
2003/04 budget. It will also review the implementation of the financial calendar for the 2002/03
budget, and report to Parliament with commitment for timely notification of the 2003/04
subsidies and two-year subsidy projections to regions. To continue the integration of budgeting
and planning, recurrent and capital expenditures will be jointly classified by a common account
code in a move towards cost center budgeting. It will start the implementation of the medium-
term pay and grading reform. for federal civil servants, costed within macro-fiscal targets to be
incorporated in the 2003/04 PEP. At the same time the SDPIP will be implemented in key federal
agencies, and corresponding bureaus in regions. Furthermore, the Government intends to
eliminate the backlog of accounts and audits for all expenditures and will take timely corrective
actions on the basis of audit reports; it will complete the roll-out of the BDA system,
incorporating double entry, al: federal and regional levels; undertake customization and piloting of
IFMIS package at federal level; finalize the automation of all existing personnel records; upgrade
the existing records and filing system to develop a Human Resource Management Information
System; and then, roll-out the upgraded system to line agencies with training of end-users. The
23



Government will continue strengthening the fiduciary framework by implementing the agreed
recommendations of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), initiated in 2001/02.
65.    Expected results. Significant benefits are expected from the implementation of the
CSRP. First, a more efficient civil service, the result of an improvement in managerial practices
and incentives, including a better pay for both federal and regional civil servants, leading to a
greater retention of qualified personnel. Second, greater citizen participation in monitoring
performance of ministries, departments, and agencies. Third, increased availability of personnel
data and other information across federal and regional institutions. Finally, better services to the
public, which will be monitored through surveys. Overall, the reforms will increase public
accountability and the effectiveness of public service delivery. The EMCP program would yield a
functional multi-year planning and budgeting exercise, as well as a better balance between current
and capital expenditures, at both the federal and regional levels. A reduction in the existing
backlog of accounts, reporting and auditing and an improved financial management system will
significantly improve the accountability framework.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   CREDIT RATIONALE AND COMPONENTS
66.    The proposed ESAC supports the Government's efforts in stabilizing the economy and
sustaining economic growth. The proposed Credit would allow the Government to provide a
cushion against the deterioration of the terms of trade, due to a decline in export revenues and the
stagnation of external demand. Financing from the ESAC, as well as from other donors, is
crucial to move from stabilization towards higher savings and investment; and it would help
building institutional capacity needed to deliver essential public services. The ESAC builds on
the reform agenda described in the I-PRSP and initiated in the ERSC, as well as on the
Government Action Plan for 2001/02.
Link to the Country Assistance Strategy and the PRSP
67.    The last full CAS for Ethiopia was approved in 1997. Following the Cessation of
Hostilities Agreement in May 2000, IDA prepared the Interim Support Strategy. The strategy,
endorsed by the IDA Board on December 5, 2000 is aimed at addressing the country's immediate
post war recovery needs during the coming 12-24 months. A new CAS for Ethiopia is being
prepared and is expected to be presented to the IDA Board in 2002/03, together with the PRSP.
Coordination with the IMF and other Donors
68.    Effective donor coordination is an important goal of IDA's assistance strategy in
Ethiopia. The staffs of IDA and the IMF have worked closely with the authorities in updating the
macroeconomic framework and the program of structural reforms. A Joint IMF-IDA report on the
reform of the financial sector has just been finalized. The staffs of IDA and the IMEF have
presented to the respective Boards a joint staff assessment of the I-PRSP in March 2001; and the
HIPC Decision Point document in November 2001. Together with IDA and the IMF, several
development partners are actively involved with the Government in the preparation of the PRSP.
Since the signing of the peace agreement, a number of donors have stepped up their technical and
financial assistance to support the implementation of the Government's medium-term reform
24



program22. The European Union, the UJNDP, DflD and other development donors are financing
some of the studies and the technical assistance required by the ESAC. IDA will organize a donor
consultative group meeting in October 2002.
B.    CREDIT AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
69.    The Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia would borrow an
amount of SDR 96.2 million ($120 million equivalent). The credit would be released in one
tranche upon effectiveness.
C.    SUMMARY OF FIDUCIARY ARRANGEMENTS
70.    Disbursements: Disbursement arrangements will follow the Bank's standard simplified
procedures for structural adjustment credits. The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed against
satisfactory implementation of the reform actions before Board presentation. Disbursements are
not linked to specific import; or expenditures. Upon effectiveness, IDA will deposit the proceeds
into a deposit account at the NBE at the request of the Borrower. A deposit account will be
opened at the NBE before effectiveness. If deposit account proceeds should be used for ineligible
purposes as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to
either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the
amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent un-disbursed amount of the
Credit. The administration of the credit will be the responsibility of the MoFED.
71.    Audits: If requested by IDA, the borrower will arrange for the audit of the deposit
account. The account would be audited by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA,
based on International Standards on Auditing applied on a consistent basis. The said audit report
would be submitted to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of the Borrower fiscal year. Since the National Bank of Ethiopia will be responsible for the
management of the overall borrower resources, the Borrower will submit the annual auditors'
report on the accounts of the National Bank of Ethiopia.
72.    Reports: The Borrower will furnish to IDA   quarterly reports on receipts and
disbursements from the deposit account.
D.    REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE ESAC
73.    The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia has embarked on a medium-term reform
program. The main elements of the reform program are set out in the Policy Matrix (Annex A).
74.    PRSP and the Macroeconomic Framework. In their review of the Joint Staff
Assessment of Ethiopia's I-PRSP, the Executive Directors of the IDA and of the IMF have
concluded that the I-PRSP provides a sound basis for the development of a PRSP and for IDA
concessional assistance. The full PRSP is under preparation. Ethiopia's macroeconomic
framework is supported by a three-year PRGF arrangement.
75.    The Government of Ethiopia has completed the following reform actions prior to the
presentation of the proposed Credit to the Board:
22 For example, during the current fiscal year, the African Development approved a Structural Adjustment Loan II of
US$ 76 million. The EU already disbursed Euro 29 million (Structural Adjustment Loan 11) and is expected to disburse
Euro 25 million under the Poverty Reduction Budget Support before the end of the fiscal year.
25



*  approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft Trade Practice Proclamation
covering anti-competitive practices, unfair trade practices and consumer
protection;
*  approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft amended Federal Urban Land
Lease Proclamation, revised to: (i) secure lease holding and transfer rights; (ii)
remove constraints on the secondary lease market; and (iii) establish the use of
leasehold rights as collateral;
*  approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft amended Investment Code revised
to: (i) remove the minimum investment requirements for 100 percent export
oriented activities; (ii) transfer the administration of duty free capital good
imports for 100 percent export-oriented investments from EIA to the Customs
administration; and (iii) promote export-oriented non-equity based foreign
collaboration;
*  adoption by the Ministry of Trade and Industry of a Directive: (i) mandating that
a single bill of lading be issued by ESL for each consignment naming the actual
importer as consignee; and (ii) creation of a system under said ministry for the
monitoring, on a regular basis, of prices, service quality, practices and overall
performance of ESL, including reviews of countries subject to ESL's monopoly
rights;
*  approval by the Council of Ministers of the civil service grievance system and
procedures;
*  approval by the Council of Ministers and subsequent communication to the
parliament of the macro-economic and fiscal framework and the 2002/04
indicative planning figures;
*  issuance by MoFED of a joint budget call with a common calendar for the
submission of the 2002/03 capital and recurrent budgets;
*  completion of the job classification and grading exercise, including new job
groupings and grades;
*  closure of accounts at the federal level, consolidation of the federal accounts for
1999/00; (ii) closure of accounts at the regional level and consolidation of the
regional accounts for 1998/99 and initiation of the financial audits thereof;
*  automation of 50 percent of all personnel records at the  federal level and
preparation of an action plan for the reconciliation of such records with the
payroll data.
Benefits
76.    The implementation of the reformn program supported by the ESAC is expected to yield a
number of benefits for Ethiopia. First, it will lower transaction costs for private investors and
exporters, thus increasing the productivity of the private sector. Second, it will improve the
business environment and facilitate the integration of Ethiopia with world markets. Third, it will
attract new foreign investors. Finally, public sector management and expenditure strengthening
will increase the efficiency of the public sector, and reduce opportunities for rent seeking and
corruption. This will improve the delivery of public services as well as the effectiveness of aid.
Risks
77.    Last year, the ERSC President's Report singled out the resumption of hostilities and
political opposition within the coalition Government as the main risks facing the reform program.
Almost a year later, the situation has significantly improved. The peace process continues and
both Ethiopia and Eritrea have accepted the April 13, 2002 ruling of an international Border
Commission on the location of the boundary between the two countries. The victory of the
reformist wing of the EPRDF over party hard-liners that wanted a roll-back of economic reforms
26



has been consolidated. While political risks have decreased, Ethiopia remains vulnerable to
commodity price changes und droughts; moreover, there are a number of institutional and
fiduciary weaknesses that could impede the much-needed improvement in public service delivery.
78.    To mitigate these risks, the Government is undertaking, in collaboration with IDA, a
CFAA and a CPAR. The C FAA will assess the strength of financial accountability processes in
both the public and private sectors and will design an action plan to improve financial
accountability. The CPAR will assess and discuss a program of reformns in areas such as
procurement legislation, capacity building and monitoring. The ESAC contributes to the
improvement of the fiduciary accountability framework by supporting - inter alia - efforts to
reduce the backlog of accounts and audits and to automate personnel management records. The
government is also discussing with IDA a comprehensive five-year national capacity building
program - which is an essential support for the implementation of the decentralization and private
sector development programns. Finally, institutional reforms are complex and take time. Progress
in some areas - particularly ihe civil service reform - will be gradual and measuring the impact of
the reforms will be difficult. Lack of immediate, tangible results may weaken the resolve to keep
the momentum going and raiise questions about the results of the program. The forthcoming PRSP
will provide a roadmap to assess Government's commitment to the reform agenda.
Safeguard Policies
79.    The ESAC is expected to have no direct social or environmental impact. For purposes of
the Bank's operational policies it does not require an assessment of safeguards policies. Given its
broad policy-based nature, 0D 8.60 on Adjustment Lending Policy apply to this credit.
E.   IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
80.    The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development will have responsibility for the
overall management of the reform program. The MoFED coordinates a working group, which
includes, inter alia, the Minister and representatives from the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the
Ministry of Infrastructure, the Federal Civil Service Reform Commission, the Prime Minister's
Office and the National Bank of Ethiopia. The group has been working closely with IDA and
IMF staff in preparing the reform program and will continue to monitor its implementation. IDA
and other donors will provide technical assistance for the implementation effort as needed.
V. RECOMMENDATION
81.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfenshon
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 15, 2002
27



28



ANNEXES
Annex A:   Policy Matrix
Annex B:   Letter of Development Policy
Annex C:   Country at a Glance
Annex D:   Key Economic Indicators
Annex E:   Key Exposure Indicators, 1998-2004
Annex F:   Balance of Payments, 1998-2004
Annex G:   Social Indicators
Annex H:   Status of IDA and IFC Operations



ANNEX A - PoLicY MATRIX
Development           |          Progress to date                    Actions before Board               Future Steps: 2002/03 and                 Outcomes
Objectives/Issues                                                           Presentation                             Beyond
Maintaining Poverty Focused Macroeconomic Policies
Maintain macroeconomic         *   Real GDP growth in 2000/01 was 7.9  Satisfactory performance under agreed  Satisfactory performance under agreed  Macroeconomic stability and
stability and growth               percent and inflation was negative;  macroeconomic framework             macroeconomic framework              growth
cuffent account deficit (before
transfers) increased, due to
unfavorable terms of trade
* Balance of payment remains
vulnerable due to continuous decline
in export coffee prices
Increase public spending to    Poverty -targeted expenses increased from  Draft Budget for 2002/03 to reflect  Subsequent Budgets to reflect increased  Improved social indicators
poverty targeted sectors       8.4 percent of GDP in 1999/00 to 10.9  agreed increased allocation to poverty -  allocation to poverty -targeted sectors
(education, health, agriculture,  percent of GDP in 2000/01. Expected  targeted sectors
natural resources, and roads)  allocation to increase to 14.9 percent of
GDP in 2001/02
Implement poverty alleviation  *   Completed Interim Poverty Reduction  Prepare full draft PRSP             Submit to IDA and IMF a full PRSP    .    Broadly owned poverty
strategies                          Strategy Paper (2001)                                                                                             reduction strategy
*    Completed consultations for PRSP                                                                              *   Improved information
*    Undertaken a poverty analysis on the                                                                              flows on poverty
basis of the 1999/00 Household                                                                                    outcomes and strategies
Survey and initiated work on poverty                                                                              for reducing poverty
and growth
Promoting Private Sector Development
Improve the business environment                                      _
Strengthen the regulatory and  Prepared a preliminary ftrst draft of the  Approval by the Council of Ministers  Subject to Parliament's approval of the  *  Reduction of anti-
institutional framework for    Trade Practice Law                     of a draft Trade Practice             Trade Practice Proclamation, create an    competitive and rent-
domestic competition, consumer                                         Proclamation, to address:            administrative authority to oversee the   seeking activities
protection and against unfair                                         .    anti-competitive practices      ifunctioning of the Trade Practice     *   Fair, transparent, and
trade practices                                                       .    unfair trade practices           Proclamation                              efficient functioning of
a    consumer proteetion                                                        domestic market
-_ I                                                                                                                                    A~~~~~~~ 
Improve the functioning of the     Land legislation include the Urban  Approval by the Council of Ministers  Subject to approval by Parliament of the  competition           m
land market                        Land Lease Holding (Proclamation   of a draft amended Federal Urban      Federal Urban Land Lease Proclamation:    potential domestic and
No. 80/1993) and the Federal Rural  Land Lease Proclamation revised to:  implement ancillary legislation;          foreign investors



ANNEX A - POLICY MATRIX
Development                      Progress to date                   Actions before Board               Future Steps: 2002/03 and                Outcomes
Objectives/Issues                                                          Presentation                            Beyond
Diagnosis                         Land Administration (Proclamation  (i) secure lease holdings and transfer  review relevant legislation to ensure  *  Increased tenure
*  Investors face difficulties   No. 89/1997). Regions deal with land  rights; (ii) remove constraints on the  consistency with revised Federal Urban  security; improved lease
with regard to the process    administration issues              secondary lease market and (iii)     Land Lease Proclamation                   market
of lease acquisition, price  *  A national conference to revise the  estabtish the use of leasehold rights as
and structure of lease and    implementation of urban land lease  collateral
use of land leases as         policies was held on December 2001
collateral
Improve FDI regime to attract  * Establishment of the Ethiopian      Approval by the Council of Ministers  Simplify procedures to obtain work   *   Higher export-oriented
100 percent exporting foreign    Investment Authority (EIA) in 1994  of a draft amended Investment Code    permits and visas                       foreign investment and
investors                      * Reviews of the Investment Code in    revised to:                                                                   collaboration
1996 and 1998                        *  Remove the minimum investment
Diagnosis:                                                                requirements for 100 percent
* The Investment Code                                                    export-oriented activiies
allows FDI in a limited set                                       *  Transfer the administration of
of activities and does not                                           duty-free capital good imports for
cover non equity foreign                                             100 percent export-oriented
technical collaborations                                             activiies from EIA to the
Customs Administration
*  Promote export-oriented non-
equity based foreign
collaboration
Reduce direct participation of  Government has undertaken large scale  During July 2001 and April 2002, bring  The Ethiopian Privatization Agency to  Reduction of the role of the
the State in the economy by   privatization program since 1995. During  to the point of sale (i.e. publicly invite  complete the privatization program of  state in the economy,
putting on sale a large number of  2000/01, 29 enterprises were brought to the  bids) 37 enterprises       Ill state owned enterprises which had  improved competition
enterprises                   point of sale                                                               begun in 2000//01, by end of 2002103
Reduce Transaction Costs
Address regulatory constraints in  ESL has commissioned a major strategy  Adoption by the Ministry of Trade  Consider the recommendations of the  Reduction of transaction
the shipping and forwarding   study, to prepare for eventual removal of  and Industry (MTI) of a directive:  ESL strategy study, including options to  costs, increased quality of
markets.                      protection                             *    Mandatng that a single bill of  achieve full commercial viability    service; improved user choice
lading be issued by ESL for each
Diagnosis                                                                 consignment, naming the actual
*   Current rule requires                                                 importer as consignee
shipping space for imports                                       *   Creating a system, under the
to be booked through the                                             MTI, for the monitoring, on a
Ethiopian Shipping Line                                              regular basis, of prices, service
(ESL)                                                                quality, practices and overall
*    Protection of ESL adds to                                            performance of ESL, induding
costs, and reduces service                                           reviews of countries subject to



ANNEX A - POLICY MATRIX
Development                      Progress to date                   Actions before Board              Future Steps: 2002/03 and                 Outcomes
Objectives/Issues                                                          Presentation                            Beyond
choice and quality                                                   ESL's monopoly rights                                                _
Improve availability of air cargo  *  New runway just completed, which  CAA to issue a Circular which defines  After separation of CAA into regulatory  Increased cargo space
space, to support growth in        will accommodate wide-body jets  the specific conditions under which air  and operations bodies, the latter to enter  availability and improved
exports of perishables             with full loads                   cargo charter flights may operate to and  ground handling market in competition  quality of service to exporters
*    Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) may  from Ethiopia                      with EAL
Improve quality of service to      authorize charters that do not belong
exporters by extending            to the Ethiopian Airlines (EAL). Some
ientjn ainxr rnmnrgesnrtP r   .11- .A. ,-.A^8
market
Significant expansion of access  *  Separation of postal and telecom  *  Submit to Council of Ministers a  *  Preparation of ETC for strategic  Higher access to telecom
to telecommunications services    services                               Communications Policy including:    partnership                       services
and increase fiscal contribution  .  Separation of regulatory and operation  i) sector vision and strategy to  *  Adoption and implementation of
of the sector                     functions of telecom by establishment  reach universal access              recommendations of the
of Ethiopian Telecommunications        ii) options for the participation of  Communications Policy
Diagnosis                         Authority (ETA) and Ethiopia           strategic partners in ETC        *  Enhance the frequency management
*   Very low penetration of      Telecommunications Corporation         iii) timetable for liberalization of  capacity of ETA
telecom services due to        (ETC)                                  market and additional private
extensive monopoly rights of  .  Launch of GSM service by ETC         participation in the sector
the ETC, limited fiscal    *   Recent improvements in penetration
contribution
Increase export competitiveness
Ensure free trade status regime  *  The Proclamation to Establish Export  *  Customs Authority to issue a  *  Review of implementation of the  Improved export performance
for 100 percent exporters          Duty Incentive Scheme was approved     Directive which implements the       Export Duty Incentive Schemes
in July 2001 (Proclamation 249/2001)   Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse
Diagnosis:                                                                Scheme
*   Ineffective duty-free                                            *   In parallel, Ministry of Trade and
import schemes contribute                                            Industry to issue Directive
to low interest from                                                 implementing the Export Duty
investors in Ethiopia's                                              Incentive Schemes
export-oriented industries
Improve finance for exports    *  Suppliers Credit Directive amended in  .  National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) to  .  Assess the effectiveness of the  Improved sources of finance
1998                                   amend the Suppliers Credit           Revised Suppliers Credit Directive  for exports
*  Export Credit Guarantee Scheme         Directive to remove the debt/ equity  *  Assess the operational performance
amended in 2001                        ratio requirement for foreign credits  of the Revised Export Credit
and loans for exports                Guarantee Scheme
NBE to amend Directive to reduce
the 2 percent service charges
imposed on Franco-Valuta imports                                    I
Improve coffee exports        .    Program to introduce Warehouse    Prepare terms of reference (TOR) for a  Carry out study and review        Improved marketing and



o D
ANNEx A - POLICY MATRIX                                                                       .            m
Development                      Progress to date                   Actions before Board              Future Steps: 2002/03 and                Outcomes
Objectives/Issues                                      .                   Presentation                            Beyond
Receipts has started - to facilitate the  study to consider and review all issues  recommendations with all concerned  exporting of coffee
Diagnosis                          development of the Commodity      pertaining to coffee marketing with a  parties prior to imnplementation
*   Coffee exports have           Exchange System                    view of setting up an efficient coffee
collapsed because of sharp  *  Actions taken to curb serious problem  commodity exchange.
fall in prices                of coffee auction bidders not honoring  Design a self contained regulatory
bids                               framework for the introduction of a
*    System of Special Auction Accounts  commodity exchange
introduced, and working successfully
Improve marketing             *    Privatization of tanneries        *    Prepare TOR for study of market  Carry out study and review          Greater marketing flexibility
arrangements for hides and skins  *  Increased tanning capacity           for raw hides and skins. This study  recommendations with all concemed  for producers of hides and
*    Livestock Marketing Authority is      to consider overall impact of    parties prior to implementation      skins
Diagnosis                          preparing program to broadcast prices  transforming the export ban into a
*   Ongoing review of how         of hides and skins on a regular basis   tariff
best to maximize retums                                          *   Set up Steering Committee to lead
from hides and skins                                                 the study, including representatives
from farmers, traders, processors
and the tanneries
Improving Public Sector Management and Service Delivery
Strengthening the civil service strategic and legal framework
Strengthen the legal framework  *  A Civii Service Law was approved by  Approval by the Coundl of Ministers  Civil service training on the legal and  Enforcement of modem civil
for the civil service (CS)        Parliament in December 2001 and     of the civil service grievance system  procedural aspects of the civil service  service rules and regulations
published in the Negarit Gazetta    and procedures                      law and related directives          in line with principles of
transparency, merit,
performance, and recognition
of rights and responsibilities
Improving expenditure m      nagement and prioritization
Introduce medium-term planning  *  A new budget manual (version 2. 1,  *  Approval by the Council of      *   The financial calendar is adhered to  .  Budget planning and
and budgeting at the federal and  February, 2000) that outlines changes   Ministers and subsequent            for the overall annual planning and  formulation are forward
regional levels                    in the processes and structure of the  communication to Parliament of      budgetary cycle leading to 2003/04   looking, based on a
Federal Govemment's budget has         the Macro-Economic and Fiscal        budget                               medium-term
been introduced. A new budget          Framework (MEFF) and the        *    Review of implementation of the      perspective
classification scheme, outlined in the  2002-04 Indicative Planning         financial calendar for 2002103  *    Reduction in budget
manual, has been adopted in the        Figures                              budget, and report to Parliament by  uncertainty leading to
2001/02 budget. A similar manual is                                         end of November 2002 with            better resource planning
planned for use by regional states  *  Ministry of Finance and Economic     commitment for timely notification   at all levels of
Development initiates technical      of 2003/04 subsidies and two-year    government
*    A financial calendar has been outlined  assistance to select regions on     subsidy projections to regions
in the govemment's Budget Manual,      carrying forward their multi-year



ANNEX A - POLICY MATRIX
Development                      Progress to date                   Actions before Board              Future Steps: 2002/03 and                Outcomes
Objectives/Issues                                                          Presentation                           Beyond
Version 2.1                            planning and budgeting
Integrate budgeting and planning  MEDaC and MoF have been merged into a  Issuance by the Ministry of Finance  Recurrent and capital spending are jointly  Improved budgeting and
of recurrent and capital      single ministry-the Ministry of Finance  and Economic Development of a joint  classified by a common account code in a  planning
expenditures                  and Economic Development               budget call with a common calendar   move towards cost center budgeting
for the submission of the recurrent
and capital budgets for 2002/03
Enhancing incentives to perform
Revise pay and grading system  *  Implementation of across-the-board  *  The completion of job            Implementation of medium-term pay and  .  More efficient,
to motivate staff and improve     salary increase for all civil servants  classification and grading      grading reform for federal civil servants,  productive and
productivity and retention rates  within 2001/02 budget year             exercise, including new job      costed within macro-fiscal targets to be  responsive civil service
of skilled staff                                                         groupings and grades             incorporated in the 2003/04 Public       institutions
*   Draft diagnostic survey of Job                                          Expenditure Plan
Classification and Grading (JCG)   *   Launch labor market surveys                                               Higher retention rates,
completed and new job groupings        against 1999 benchmarks and for                                           particularly for
completed and being reviewed           new grades                                                                managerial and
technical staff
Introduce performance         *   Government has adopted a Service   Develop and initiate implementation of  Implementation of SDPIP in federal  Greater compliance and
management across agencies and    Delivery Performance Improvement   SDPIP in key agencies at the federal  agencies, and corresponding bureaus in  improvements in operational
local govemment                   Program (SDPIP) to promote 'good  level and select regional bureaus     regions                              performance
practice' approaches to public sector
management
*   Ministry of Capacity Building is
I     preparing framework for SDPIP    I
Improving fiscal monitoring and accountability
Improve monitoring of financial  a  The Department of Accounts prepared  *  Closure and consolidation of  *   Elimination of backlog of accounts   I Improved quality of
management practices through      a plan for improving the accounting    accounts at the federal level for    and audits for all expenditures      fiscal data and
timeliness of accounts            system and reduction of accounts and   1999/00; closure and             .   Timely corrective actions are taken  compliance with
preparation and auditing          audit backlog                          consolidation of the federal and     on the basis of audit reports        financial regulations
*    The new accounting system is adopted  regional accounts up to 1998/99  *   Complete roll-out of BDA system,
in the 2002103 budget, incorporating   and initiation of financial audits  incorporating double entry, at   *    Sound financial
double entry and modified cash system  for 1998/99                          federal and regional levels          management practices
(as specified in the Budget Design  .  Preparation of roll-out plan for  *  Undertake customization and          and output performance  o
Manual)                                Budget, Disbursements, Accounts      piloting of IFMIS package at
.    The design study for the integrated   (BDA) system, incorporating the       federal level                                              en u
financial management system (IFMS)     new budget structure in the regions  .  Implementation of agreed            o_E



ANNEX A - POLICY MATRIXx
Development                      Progress to date                  Actions before Board              Future Steps: 2002/03 and               Outcomes            ° 
Objectives/Issues                                                         Presentation                           Beyond
and bidding documents prepared to      and transition to IFMIS             recommendations from the CFAA
procure a package solution        .    Review of options for using         and the CPAR
The Government is collaborating with      wireless technology for
IDA in the preparation of a Country    development of s Wide Area
Financial Accountability Assessment    Network
(CFAA) and a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR)
Improve transparency of       *   Piloting of software for records and  .  Automation of 50 percent of all  *  Automation of aD personnel    *   Accurate and timely
personnel practices in a          filing system, and automation of       personnel records at the federal    records                             personnel data reflecting
decentralized civil service       personnel records for 10 percent of    level, with action plan for    *    Upgrade of existing records and     all relevant personnel
system                            federal civil servants completed in   reconciliation with payroll data     filing system to develop Human      actions undertaken by
December 2001                                                              Resource Management Information     line agencies
System
*   Roll-out of upgraded system to line  *  Real-time monitoring of
agencies with training of end-users  personnel management
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _in   lin e   agencies



Annex B
Page 1 of 8
April 19, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
Intermational Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    I am writing to recluest, on behalf of the Government of the Federal Democratic Republic
of Ethiopia, an Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit (ESAC) of US$120 million equivalent,
from the International Development Association (IDA) in support of our poverty reduction and
economic reform strategy. This letter sets out our reform program, which is aimed at accelerating
economic growth and reducing poverty within a framework of macroeconomic stability. We are
committed to implementing a comprehensive reform program encompassing tax administration,
monetary and exchange rnanagement, financial sector development, improving the investment
climate, deepening civil service reforms and implementing effective decentralization. I am
attaching a policy matrix which we have prepared in collaboration with the IDA team and which
sets out the contents of this letter in summary form.
Background and recent developments
2.     Since the signing of the peace accord with Eritrea in December 2000, we have refocused
our efforts on the primary task of poverty reduction. With an annual per capita income of $100,
Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Life expectancy is 42 years, and has
decreased in recent years, a result of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Ethiopia has the third largest
number of people with AIDS (about 3 million) in the world and the largest population of AIDS
orphans (about 750,000). Infant mortality rates have been declining since the mid-1980s but still
exceed the regional average. Our Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) - which
was endorsed by the IMF and IDA Boards in March 2001 - puts poverty reduction at the center of
our development strategy and reaffirms the commitment to achieve the Intemational
Development Goals by 2015. We have now prepared the first draft of the full PRSP, after having
completed a comprehensive process of consultations. We have also completed a number of
analytical efforts on the growth-poverty linkage, H1V/AIDS strategy, as well as a report on the
status of poverty in Ethiopia using data from the 2000 Household Income and Expenditure
Survey.
3.     Macroeconomic results during the first year since the end of the conflict with Eritrea,
have been satisfactory: in 2000/01 real GDP growth reached 7.9 percent and inflation was
negative - due to a bumper crop and large amounts of food aid. The overall fiscal deficit
r    J<6tf9kV&~P,C4J4. A     2,   y4 ?,    . e. 2aaae 50.         fd4 ,91,4v/a  ,F. llvaV ew a-o



Annex B
Page 2 of 8
(including grants and the emergency programs) was 4.8 percent of GDP, back to its pre-war
levels. Defense expenditures were estimated to be 6.2 percent of GDP (lower than the
programmed 7.3 percent of GDP), and poverty-targeted outlays (health, education, agriculture,
and roads) reached 10.9 percent of GDP. The sharp decrease in defense expenditures, as well as
the availability of interim assistance from the HIPC initiative, have allowed an increase in
poverty-related expenditures, which are key to the realization of our poverty reduction program.
4.     While the macroeconomic situation has improved, Ethiopia's balance of payments
remains fragile, because of unfavorable terms of trade and the likely stagnation of external
demand in the near future. In 2000/01, the trade balance deteriorated by 9.3 percent over the
previous year, the result of a decline in both the price and volume of coffee. Between July 1998
and June 2001, coffee export prices declined by almost 40 percent. Financing from IDA, and
from other donors, is essential to provide a cushion against the continuous deterioration of the
terms of trade, as well as to allow a move from stabilization towards higher savings and growth.
The resources made available through the proposed ESAC are also intended to leverage critical
reforms, most of which have a fiscal impact, such as increased allocation to poverty-targeted
sectors; and to finance the process of decentralization and the improvement of service delivery for
poverty reduction.
THE GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA REFORM PROGRAM
5.    In October 2001, following months of intense political debate, we presented to the House
of People's Representatives the Action Plan for 2001/02, reflecting our new strategic directions.
Within the framework outlined in the I-PRSP, we intend to intensify our reform efforts on three
areas - decentralization, governance, and capacity building. Decentralization will be deepened by
devolving responsibility for basic services to the Regions and down to woredas (districts) and
kebeles, mainly through the devolution of block grants by the regions to the woredas. Many
actions will be taken to improve governance. For example, the Civil Service Reform Program
(CSRP) - which so far has been confined to the federal level - will be expanded to the lower
levels of the administration. And we will accelerate tax reforms and strive to eliminate all
opportunities for rent seeking. Capacity building will be an essential component of efforts to
improve governance in both the public and private sector. We have prepared a comprehensive
five-year National Capacity Building Program to promote value creation in the private sector,
deepen democratic decentralization and improve service delivery. New ministries for rural
development, capacity building, infrastructure, federal affairs and revenue have been created.
The ministries of Finance and of Economic Development and Cooperation have been re-
organized into a single ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED).
6.     Within this context, we have focused our reform efforts - in preparation of the ESAC- on
three areas: 1) maintaining poverty focused macroeconomic policies; 2) promoting private sector
development, to accelerate investment and growth; and 3) improving public sector management
and service delivery.
1. MAINTAINING POVERTY FOCUSED MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
7.     We have updated our macroeconomic program, in concert with the IMF and IDA, taking
into account recent macroeconomic results - including the larger than expected decline in the
terms of trade, the slowdown in the world economy and the impact of the September 11, 2001
events - which are likely to result in lower demand for Ethiopian exports, a decrease in workers
remittances and lower activity for the Ethiopian Airline and Ethiopian Shipping Line.



Annex B
Page 3 of 8
8.     We expect GDP growth to average less than 6 percent a year- in the next three years-
down from the previous expectation of 7 percent. We aim at reaching an external current account
deficit of 7.1 percent of GDP in 2001/02 and 6.2 percent of GDP in 2002/03, while raising gross
reserves to 2.9 and 3.8 monlhs of imports in the two years respectively. The overall fiscal budget
including grants is expected to be 6.9 percent of GDP in 2001/02, about 2.1 percent higher than in
the previous year. This reflects additional poverty-targeted and capital outlays fully financed by
concessional external assistmice and the enhanced HIPC assistance that were not included in the
budget adopted in July 2001. We intend to continue reorienting resources away from military
towards development related activities in order to attain the social and poverty reduction targets
identified in the I-PRSP. In 2001/02 defense expenditures are expected to decline by 1
percentage of GDP relative to the previous year (to 5.2 percent); by contrast, the poverty-targeted
expenditures will be increased by 4 percent of GDP, to 14.9 percent (including 0.6 percent from
HIPC relief). Subsequent Budgets will reflect increased allocations to poverty -targeted sectors.
As indicated in the I-PRSP, we will maintain the agreed expenditure shares for poverty-targeted
sectors, as well as a balance between current and capital expenditures.
2. PITOMOTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
9.     Since 1992, we have implemented a comprehensive program of structural reforms to
promote the development of the private sector and improve the business environment. However,
private investments as a percent of GDP remains low. Per capita real exports are among the
lowest in the world. Traditional exports (particularly coffee) have suffered a setback in recent
years - particularly because of a decline in prices. A number of bureaucratic hurdles adversely
affect the private sector's efficiency.  Foreign investment is subject to minimum capital
requirements. Investors and exporters alike complain about the absence of an efficient market for
land leases. Transport costs are high - mostly the result of geography and poor infrastructure, but
also of regulatory impediments - and the penetration of telephones and new information
technologies is very limited.  And despite efforts to reform the financial sector, private
entrepreneurs find it difficult to have access to bank credit and capital, partly because of
difficulties in using,land as a collateral.
10.    A number of reforms to increase the competitiveness of the economy have been
supported by the Economic Rehabilitation Support Credit (ERSC) and a three-year Poverty
Reduction Growth Facility IlPRGF) arrangement with the EMF, and are in progress. lThey include
a tax reform- aimed at improving horizontal equity of taxation among medium-and large-scale
firms and at increasing revenue, a further reduction of nominal tariffs; and a financial sector
reform - aimed at strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework, increasing
competition and bank sounclness. In preparation of the ESAC we have taken a number of actions
in the following areas: (i) improving the business environment; (ii) reducing transaction costs;
and (iii) increasing export competitiveness.
Improving the business environment
11.    The Govermnent has an ambitious agenda for improving the business environment,
which includes enhancing domestic competition, liberalizing the regulatory regime for foreign
investment, improving the functioning of the land lease market and reducing the role of the State
into the economy. Actions recently taken in the context of the preparation of the ESAC include
the approval by the Council of Ministers of three new draft laws: (i) a Trade Practices
Proclamation, to address anti-competitive practices, consumer protection and unfair trade
practices; (ii) a draft amended Federal Urban Land Lease Proclamation, revised to: secure lease



Annex B
Page 4 of 8
holding and transfer rights; remove constraints on the secondary lease market; and establish the
use of leasehold rights as collateral;
(iii) a draft amended Investment Code revised to remove the minimum investment requirement
for 100 percent export-oriented activities, transfer the administration of duty-free capital good
imports for 100 percent export-oriented investments from the Ethiopian Investment authority
(EIA) to the Customs Administration, and promote export-oriented non-equity based foreign
collaboration. The Government will continue the privatization program, with a total of 37
enterprises brought to the point of sale during July 2001 to April 2002.
Reducing transaction costs
12.    Reducing transaction costs for investors and exporters is a key priority of our reform
program. In the area of shipping, while we intend to continue the protection of our Ethiopian
Shipping Lines (ESL), we wish to ensure that service users benefit from market rates and quality
of service. On the telecom sector, we are considering strategic options for the future, and we
intend to open up the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation to a strategic partner. In the
area of air cargo we will set the rules for air cargo charter flights, to deal with the occurring of
seasonal peaks, particularly in carrying flowers and other perishables to Europe.
13.    Actions recently taken in preparing the ESAC include: 1) Adoption by the Ministry of
Trade and Industry (MTI) of a directive: (a) mandating that a single bill of lading to be issued by
ESL for each consignment, naming the actual importer as consignee (or his designated agent); and
(b) creating a system, under the MTI, for the monitoring, on a regular basis, of prices, service
quality and performance of ESL, including regular review of countries covered by ESL's
monopoly rights; 2) submission to the Council of Ministers of a Communications Policy,
discussing the vision and strategy to reach universal telecom access, options for the participation
of strategic partners in ETC and the timetable for liberalization of market and additional private
participation in the sector; 3) the Civil Aviation Authority has issued a Circular which defines the
specific conditions under which air cargo charter flights may operate to and from Ethiopia.
Increasing export competitiveness
14.   Improving export competitiveness is key to our objective of increasing Ethiopia's
participation in the world economy. In August 2001 Ethiopia was certified under the African
Growth Opportunity Act (AGOA). To benefit from the AGOA, we will continue to improve the
incentive regime for imports - by issuing the required directives to implement Proclamation
249/2001 - approved in July 2001 - which introduces essential export duty incentive schemes to
allow exporters access to inputs at world prices; and we are introducing a number of measures to
improve export financing. We are also taking actions to boost export performance. They concern
the coffee sector, to deal with the effect of a prolonged decline in export prices; and the
functioning of the hides and skins sector - from the farmers to the tanneries and the leather
industry, with a view to eventually moving towards the replacement of the export ban on raw
hides and skins with a tariff.
15.    Actions recently taken in the context of the ESAC include: 1) Customs Authority has
issued a Directive which implements the Bonded Manufacturing Warehouse (BMW) Scheme; in
parallel, the Ministry of Trade and Industry has issued a Directive implementing the Export Duty
Incentive Schemes (Proclamation 249/2001); 2) the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) has
amended the Suppliers Credit Directive to remove the debt' equity ratio requirement for foreign
credits and loans for exports; 3) the NBE has amended the Directive to reduce the 2 percent
service charges imposed on Franco-Valuta trade; 4) Terms of reference have been prepared for a



Annex B
Page 5 of 8
study to consider and review all issues pertaining to coffee marketing with a view of setting up an
efficient coffee commodity exchange; and of designing a self contained regulatory framework for
the introduction of a commodity exchange; 5) Terms of Reference have been prepared for a study
on the market for raw hides and skins. The study will consider the overall impact of transforming
the export ban into a tariff. A Steering Committee has been set up to lead the study, including
representatives from farmers, traders, processors, and the tanneries.
Program for 2002/03 and beyond
16.    Following approval of the Trade Practice Proclamation by the House of People's
Representatives, we intend ito create an administrative authority to oversee the functioning of the
law. Equally, after the approval of the revised Federal Urban Land Lease Proclamation, we will
implement ancillary legislation and review relevant legislation to ensure consistency with the
revised law. In the years ahead we plan to simplify procedures to obtain work permits and visas.
The privatization program of 111 state owned enterprises, which had begun in 2000/01 will be
completed by bringing to the point of sale the remaining enterprises by end of 2002/03. As to the
telecom sector, the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation will be prepared for strategic
partnership. After discussing the proposed Communications Policy, we will adopt and implement
its recommendations; and we will step up the frequency management capacity of the Ethiopian
Telecom Authority. We will also consider the recommendations of the ESL strategy study
(prepared in 2000), including options to achieve full commercial viability. More competition will
also be introduced in the ground handling operations of the airports: after separating the CAA
into a regulatory and an operations body, the latter is expected to enter ground handling market in
competition with EAL. NVe will review the implementation of the Export Duty Incentive
Schemes. Continuing the efforts to improve export financing, the NBE will assess the
effectiveness of the revised directive on Suppliers' s Credit and it will assess the operational
performance of the Revised Export Credit Guarantee Scheme. Finally, the two studies on the
coffee exchange and on hides and skins will be carried out and the recommendations will be
implemented after reviewing them with all concemed parties.
3. IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND SERVICE DELIVERY
17.    Building a fair, efficient and ethical civil service has been one of our key priorities since
the launch, in 1996, of the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP). The prograrn aimed at
establishing the legal framework and enabling the environment for a modem civil service;
improving service delivery; and enhancing the transparency of personnel management systems.
Implementation of the CSRP' suffered from delays during 1997-2000 because of the effects of the
war with Eritrea, poor cooriination, and limited managerial capacity. With the return of peace
and stability, reform efforts have been intensified. Progress has included the approval, by the
House of People's Representatives, of a civil service law and code of ethics, a national charter of
citizens' rights and responsibilities, a financial management proclamation and a national service
delivery policy.  Procedures and manuals for budget preparation and execution and for
procurement have been prepared.  And we have also partly redefined the Expenditure
Management and Control Program (EMCP) in the context of the HIPC Enhanced Initiative, with
the preparation of an action plan to track poverty-related expenditure.
18.    While important, we recognize that CSRP initiatives have had, so far, only a modest
impact in relieving the institutional and capacity constraints within the Ethiopian civil service.
CSRP activities have focused mainly on the federal level of government - resulting in a modest
impact on the institutional and service delivery performance at the local level; they have not been
linked to a restructuring of roles and salaries; and were not accompanied by capital investments in
infrastructure, and building capacity for service delivery. Thus, we have refocused the CSRP to



Annex B
Page 6 of 8
achieve an effective decentralization program to improve service delivery. We have embarked on
a major reorganization of ministries and mandates, developing a wide-ranging National Capacity
Building Program (NCBP), as well as introducing various initiatives to support a democratic
devolution of resources and authority. Within this context, our efforts are focused on improving
service delivery through: (i) strengthening the legal and strategic framework for civil service
reform, (ii) improving expenditure management and prioritization, (iii) enhancing incentives to
perform, and (iv) promoting fiscal monitoring and accountability.
Strengthening the civil service strategic and legalframework
19.   The responsibility for the overhaul of the strategic framework of the CSRP has been
given to the newly established Ministry of Capacity Building (MCB). Summary guidelines,
manuals, and policies developed under the CSRP have been compiled and are being disseminated
at the federal and regional levels. The MCB is reviewing the structure of the original CSRP with
a view towards consolidating and reorganizing its core elements, and developing an
implementation modality that would ensure an effective and efficient roll-out across regions.
Central to the new strategic framework for CSRP is the civil service proclamation, which
establishes the legal basis for a modem, more decentralized civil service, and opens the way for
accompanying legislation, policies, and reforms in areas such as ethics, personnel management,
financial management, and service delivery standards. The Federal Civil Service Commission
(FCSC) has made progress in developing training materials for the enforcement of the law and
subsidiary directives such as those governing grievance, and recourse.
20.    Within this context, recent actions taken in the preparation of the ESAC include the
approval by the Council of Ministers of a civil service grievance system and procedures.
Improving expenditure management andprioritization
21.    A federal Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework (MEFF) is to be prepared each year, on
the basis of which funds available for federal recurrent and capital expenditure and for the
regional subsidy are to be calculated. The MEFF is expected to provide the basis for the setting
of Indicative Planning Figures (IPFs)-for the capital expenditures of federal public bodies, which
are consolidated into a three-year rolling Public Investment Program (PIP). A financial calendar,
developed as part of the budget reform, spells out the responsibilities of different bodies as well
as the annual timing of each stage of the exercise. To improve budget formulation, a new
classification system and chart of accounts - have been adopted in the federal Government's
budget for 2001/02. The new classification will be rolled over to the regions in the next 2-3
years.
22.    Recent actions taken in the context of the ESAC include: 1) the Council of Ministers has
approved and communicated to the House of People's Representatives the MEFF and the 2002-
04 Indicative Planning Figures; 2) the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development has
initiated technical assistance to select regions on carrying forward their multi-year planning and
budgeting; 3) a joint budget call has been issued with a common calendar for the submission of
the recurrent and capital budgets for 2002/03.
Enhancing incentives to perform
23.    We recognize the importance of incentives for individual civil servants to perform their
duties and carry out their responsibilities in a client-driven manner, as well as incentives of
ministries or regional bureaus to improve agency-level output performance. Thus, we intend to
review structural issues related to the pay and grading system, as a basis for the development of a



Annex B
Page 7 of 8
medium-term pay and employment reform. The reform would be designed to ensure a
competitive compensation to civil servants relative to the private sector-that is affordable, in line
with the perfornance goals of the Government. A number of labor market surveys were
conducted in the past to ascertain the competitiveness of civil service wages vis-a-vis private
sector counterparts. A second round of surveys has been initiated taking 1999 as a benchmark,
with the inclusion of new groups of workers. A Job Classification and Grading (JCG) exercise
seeks to revise the job classification and grading system within the civil service to allow for
greater flexibility in personnel and wage management policies. The findings are currently being
disseminated and discussed with civil servants and professional associations. Subsequently, we
intend to develop a range of rnedium-term wage and grading reform scenarios, consistent with the
resource envelope projected in the MEFF and Public Expenditure Plan (PEP) for 2002/03-06. At
the same time we are looking at ways to improve the performance of line agencies through
capacity building resources upon meeting performance targets and we have prepared a Service
Delivery Performance Improvement Program (SDPIP).
24.    Recent actions taken in the context of the ESAC include: 1) The job classification and
grading exercise has been completed, including new job groupings and grades; 2) labor market
surveys have been launched, against 1999 benchmarks and for new grades; and 3) the SDPIP has
been developed and is being implemented in key agencies at the federal level and selected
regional bureaus.
Improving fiscal monitoring and accountability
25.    We have placed a strong emphasis on budget execution, including improving the design
and timeliness of accounts preparation and reporting. More emphasis is also put on better
monitoring of personnel management practices, particularly at the federal and regional levels.
26.    To improve the quality of fiscal data we are replacing the single entry cash management
system with a double entry bookkeeping modified cash accounting system. A manual has been
prepared. The new accounting system, which has been adopted for the 2002/03 budget, will also
be reflected in an upgrade of the Budget, Disbursements and Accounts (BDA) system. The
upgrade and roll-out of BDA represents an important step for the eventual implementation of the
Integrated Financial Managernent Information System (IFMIS), which is intended to operate on a
double entry system. At the same time we are focusing on the issue of clearing the existing
backlog in the preparation of federal and regional accounts and audits. As part of the larger
effort, the FCSC plans to develop a government-wide Human Resource Management Information
System (HRMIS) to ensure access to real-time information on personnel management within
federal civil service. As a first step, the FCSC has piloted a Records and File System (RFS).
Automation of personnel records is proceeding. Its completion would include a reconciliation
exercise with the existing payroll records in MOFED.
27.    Recent actions taken in the context of the ESAC include: 1) Achievement of the closure
and consolidation of accounts at the federal level for 1999/00; as well as the closure and
consolidation of the federal amd regional accounts up to 1998/99 and the initiation of financial
audits for 1998/99. In addition, the roll-out plan for the Budget, Disbursements, Accounts (BDA)
system has been prepared, incorporating the new budget structure in the regions and transition to
IFMIS; 3) options for using wireless technology for development of Wide-Area Network have
been reviewed; and 4) the automation of 50 percent of all personnel records at the federal level,
with action plan for reconciliation with payroll data, has been completed.



Annex B
Page8 of8
Program for 2002/03 and beyond
28.   In the years ahead, we will continue implementing the CSRP reform. Training for civil
servants on the legal and procedural aspects of the civil service law and related directives will be
introduced at both the federal and regional levels. We plan to adhere to the financial calendar for
the overall annual planning and budgetary cycle leading to 2003/04 budget. However, we will
also review the implementation of the new financial calendar for 2002/03 budget, and report to
the House of People's Representatives, with commitment for timely notification of 2003/04
subsidies and two-year subsidy projections to regions. To continue the integration of budgeting
and planning, recurrent and capital expenditures will be jointly classified by a common account
code in a move towards cost center budgeting. We will start the implementation of the medium-
term pay and grading reform for federal civil servants, costed within macro-fiscal targets to be
incorporated in the 2003/04 Public Expenditure Plan. At the same time the SDPIP will be
implemented in key federal agencies, and corresponding bureaus in regions. Furthermore, we
intend to eliminate backlog of accounts and audits for all expenditures; take timely corrective
actions on the basis of audit reports; complete the roll-out of the BDA system, incorporating
double entry, at federal and regional levels; undertake customization and piloting of IFMIS
package at federal level; finalize the automation of all existing personnel records; upgrade the
existing records and filing system to develop HRMIS; and roll-out the upgraded system to line
agencies with training of end-users. Finally, we will continue strengthening the fiduciary
framework and we intend to implement the agreed recommendations of the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR),
undertaken in 2001/02 in collaboration with IDA.
CONCLUSIONS
29.    I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to the implementation
of our growth and poverty reduction strategy - described in the draft full PRSP - and to the
reform program outlined above. We are fully committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability,
improving the investment climate for a private sector-led growth, deepening civil service reforms,
strengthening public expenditure management and implementing an effective decentralization
program. We believe that through the implementation of this program we will be able to achieve
sustainable development with significant poverty reduction and broad-based growth. We hope
that IDA will continue to support our program of poverty reduction with follow up operations
based on the PRSP.
30.    On behalf of the Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, I wish to
thank the IDA for the assistance already provided and I trust that this request for additional
assistance through the proposed ESAC will receive your favorable consideration.
Yours sincerely,
H.E. to                 inister of Finance and Economic Development
Federal    ocratic Republic of Ethiopia



Annex C
Page I of 2
Country at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Ethopla     Africa   Income      Development diasiondn
2000
Population, mid-year (millons)                         64.3       659     2459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capia (Alas mehod, US$)                         100       480      420
GNi (Atlas method, USS bfi/ons)                         6.7       313     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (X)                                          2.6       2.6       1.9     GNI
Labor force (%J                                         2.3       2.6       2.4     GN                              Gross
perprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 199400)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (9 ofpopuladton below national povery line)     47
Urban population ( oftotat populTaon)                    18        34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         42        47        59
Infant mortaity fOer 1,000 /te births)                 104         92       77
Child malnutridon X(9 of children un der 5)             47                    *          Access to improved water sourte
Access to an Improved water source (96 ofpoulautaon)     24        55        76
IllHteracy (9 ofpopulathn age 151)                       62        38        38
Gross primary enrollmern (9 ofschool-aWe populatfon)     43        78        96            -EthIopia
male                                                  55         85       102            -     Low-income group
Female                                                31         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980      1990      1999      2000
Economic rados'
GOP (US$ bfi/ons)                              ..       8.6       6.5       6.4
Gross domestic InvestmnterlGDP                  ..     11.8      16.0      14 2
Eports of goods en  seices/GOP                  ..      7.8      14.1      15.4                     Trade
GrossdomesUcasvingstGl3P                        ..      74        1.2      -1.0
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..     10.5       8.2       9.0
Current account batancelGDP                     .      -2.8      -7 9      -5.2     DomesUc          ,      .     i    e
inteTest payments/GDP                           .       0.6       0.        0.8     saIvetment
Total debtWGDP                                  .     100.4      82.4      85.3     savng
Total debt servicelexports                    7.6      34.9      63.3      52.2
Presert value of debt/GDP                      5.         .       4.5
Present value of debtexporls                   ..            ..  373.6
Indebtedness
1980-93  199040       1999      2000   200144
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  t.t      4.7       6.3       5.4       6.4                Ethirpa
GDPpercaptta                        -t:3       24       3.7       2.8       39                    Low4noomeg,oup
Exportsofgoodsandservices            2.A      9.5     -11.9       7.7       2.2                         -        
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990      1999      2000      Growth ot Investment and GOP 1%)
(t6 f GDPJ)
Agrirulture                                    ..      49.3      52.3      52.3
Industry                                       ..      12.7      11.1      111      20
Manufacturing                                 ..      7.8        70        7.0     j     _
Services                                        .      38.0      36.5      36.5      o
Private consumptIon                            ..      74.3      BOA       77.9      o                            n
General government consumption                  ..     18.5      18.4      23.1
Impots of goods and servlCes                    ..     12.4      29.0      30.7                     GD1          GDP
198040    19o40o       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Impofl I%)
(average annua/ growth)
AgrIculture                                   02        2.1       3.8       2.2 
Industry                                      0.4       6.1       11.3      3.0      63
Manufacturing                               -0.9      6.6       14.8       4.2     63
Sermes                                        3.1       7.1       7.6       9.5       o_
Private consumption                           0.2       3.0       6.8      -0.6      o      
General government consumprion                4.5       E.8      37.7      29.3     -20     eS    Sr   sr               go
Gross domestic Investment                     2.1       e.8      -0.6      -6.3                -E0l mIat
Impons of goods and services                  1.5       6.4      13.3       4.6
The diamonds show four key Indicators In tYi country (h bold) compared with Rs income-group average. Itf date are missing, the diarond will
be Incomplete.
- Current account balanoe hndude offidal tran sfers.



Annex C
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflatin (%)
DomestUc prices
(% change)                                                                      15
Consumer prices                              4.5     5.2       3.9       4.2    1..
ImplilctGDP deflator                                 3.5       2.1       1.4     s
Govemment finance                                                                o
(% of GDP, lndudes curent grants)                                                5
Current revenue                                     17.7       17.8     18.2    -10
Fiscal deflcit                                                -9 2     -11.4           -   GDP deflator  O    CPI
Fiscal deflcit                                     -12.0     -12.9     -14.8
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         459      368       485      486      s
Coffee                                             196       281       262     1 eoo
Leather and leather                                 64        32        35    1t200
Manufactures                                                                   1.00D
Total Imports (cff)                         692      881      1,558    1,611     too
Food                                                73       100       116      SW
Fuel and energy                                    109       111       250      400
Capital goods                                      340       643       755       o
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..      77        77       64           94   95   ss   97   w   99   rl
Import price Index (1995=100)                         91        92      116                UExports      mimports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                             85        83       55
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ miions)                               1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsand services                  569      672       915      984      2.
Imports of goods and services               782     1O069     1.873    1.960   o_ _
Resource balance                           -213     -397      -958     -976
Net income                                    7      -67       -52      -60     *2
Net current transfers                        80      220       605      708         *           -"         I     i
Current account balance                    -126     -244      -510     -335
Flnancing iems (net)                         86      196       470      366
Changes In net reserves                      40       48        40      225
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ mnilions)       262       55       434        0
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)             2.1     2.1        7.5      8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS rmilions)                                                                   Conmosion of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        824     8,830     5331     5449
IBRD                                       56       27         0        0                   F- 11E 79
IDA                                       249      824      1,739    1,779                       ;      s 17779
Totaldebt service                            45      236       155       139        E 27
IBRD                                       10        9         0        0
IDA                                         2       10        32       34                                    C .77
Composition of net resource flowa
OffIdal grants                            125      604
OfIclal credRtors                          67      279       154       120
Private creditors                          26      -57       -12       -8
Foreign dirdct Investmentt
Portrolloequty                              0        0                                             -DD 4519
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0       79       100        0      A - IBRD                  E - ilateras
DIsbursements                              28       74       148      105      B-IDA    D-Othermultletw  F -Private
Prlncipalrepayments                         4       11        19       21      C-IMF                     G-Shonterm
Nettfovs                                   24       63       129       84
Interest payments                           8        8        12       13
Net transfers                              16       55       117       71
Including grants
- Excluding grants
Source: World Bank Database.



Annex D
Page 1 of 2
Key Economic Indicators
Actual                   Estimate           Projected
Indicator                                 1998     1999      2000      2001     2002      2003      2004
National accounts (as % of GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                       100       100      100       100       100       100       100
Agriculture                                 52        52        52        52       52        52        52
Industry                                    11        I1I1I I                                I I       I
Services                                    37        37        37       37        37        37        37
Total Consumption                             92        99      101        98        98        96        94
Gross domestic fixed investment               17        16       14        17        20        20       20
Government investment                        7         8         5         9        11       11        10
Private investment                           10        8         9         8        9         9        10
Exports (GNFS)b                               16        14       15        15        13        13        13
Imports (GNFS)                                25        29       31        31        30        28        27
Grossdomesticsavings                           8         1        -1        2         2         4         6
Grossnationalsavings'                         12         5        9        13        12        13        15
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      6535      6469     6388      6359      6685      7177      7901
(US$ million at current prices)
GNPpercapita(US$,Atlasmethod)                100       100       110      110       100       100       110
Real annual growth rates
Gross domestic product at market prices    -1.2       6.3      5.4       7.9       5.8       6.0       6.0
Gross Domestic Income                       0.9       5.7      3.9       7.8       4.8       6.1       7.5
Real annual per capita growth rates
Gross domestic product at market prices    -3.6       3.7      3.0       5.4       3.5       3.6       3.5
Total consumption                          -0.6       8.5      3.1       1.3       0.2       3.0       3.3
Private consumption                        -4.5       3.3      -2.9      8.8      -3.5       4.9       5.0
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                            1037       915      984       957       895       966      1063
Merchandise FOB                           602       485      486       441       402       442      497
Imports (GNFS)b                            1653     1873      1960      1945      1978     2045      2141
Merchandise FOB                          1357      1558     1611      1558      1598      1658      1742
Resource balance                           -616      -958      -976     -987     -1083     -1080     -1078
Net current transfers                       552       605       708      779       662       685       753
Current account balance                    -333      -510      -335     -264      -475      -441      -362
Financing items (net)                                  470       110      251       611       611       439
Change in reservesd                         -134        40      225         13     -136      -170       -77
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                 -9.4     -14.8     -15.3     -15.5     -16.2     -15.0    -13.6
Real annual growth rates ( YR81 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                   -9.7     -2.6      23.6      -1.6       7.7       7.1      6.9
Manufactures                                ..        ..        ..        ..        ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)                   9.9      18.4       6.3      -1.8       5.5       5.2      2.9



Annex D
Page 2 of 2
Key Economic Indicators
Actual                   Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1998      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003     2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)
Current revenues                            18.1     17.8      18.2      19.2     19.7      19.8      20.2
Current expenditures                        15.8     20.8      26.4      19.5     19.8      18.8      17.6
Capital expenditure                         9.5       9.8       6.6       9.5     11.3      10.9      10.5
Foreign financing                           4.6       7.1       5.0       8.9      12.9     11.5       8.2
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                     41.5      40.5      43.1      46.4     47.5      47.8      46.8
Growth of M2 (%)                            12.7      5.9      14.0       9.5     11.1       9.9       9.1
Price indices( YR81 =100)
Merchandise export price index             108.4     89.7      72.7      67.0     65.9      68.1      70.8
Merchandise import price index             94.3      91.5      89.0      87.6     85.2      84.0     119.6
Merchandise terms oftrade index            115.0     98.0      81.7      76.5     77.4      81.0      59.2
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f              38.4      38.0      35.6      35.2       ..
Consumer price index (% change)             3.6       3.9       4.2      -7.2      3.0       3.0       3.0
GDP deflator (% change)                     9.4       2.1       1.4      -5.6      2.5       3.2       4.1
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital gants.
d Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central govemment
f "LCU" denotes "loal currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
Source: Govemment of Ethiopia and staff estimates.



Annex E
Page I of I
Key Exposure Indicators
Actual             Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                                  1998      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003       2004
Totaldebtoutstandingand                      5130      5331      5449      5615      6122      6459       6621
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Net disbursements (US$m)'                      93       134        88       204       144         49       -44
Totaldebtservice(TDS)                         118       155       139       274       271       262        260
(US$m)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                                     4.9       5.8       5.5       5.9       6.8        6.7       6.2
TDO/GDP                                     78.5      82.4      85.3      88.3      91.6      9(.0       83.8
TDS/XGS                                     57.7      63.3      52.2      23.2      22.7      20.6       18.8
Concessional/TDO                            85.1      86.5      87.8      88.3      89.1      89.8      90.4
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        (.0       0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public                70.6      65.9      74.0      42.0      46.7      48.5       50.8
DS (%)0
IBRD DS/XGS                                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                              0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (/)                    ..       ..        ..        ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                             1632      1739      1779      2026      2224      2350      2409
EFC (US$m)
Loans                                        0.0       0.0       0.0
Equity and quasi-equity'                     0.0       0.0       0.0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                       0.0       0.0       0.0
a. Includes public and publidy guaranteood debt private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital. Before 1999/2000, post debt relief, thereafter, pre-debt relief.
b. "XGS' denotes exports of goods and cervices, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRI), IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantee
e Includes equity and quasi-equity type: of both loan and equity instruments.
Source: Government of Ethiopia and staf f estimates.



Annex F
Page I of I
Balance of Payments, 1998-2014
Actual                Estimate               Projected
Indicator                                                  1998      1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004
Balance of Payments (US$ mnlion)
Trade balance                                                -755    -1,074   -1,125    -1,117   -1,197   -1,216    -1,245
Export of goods                                             602      4U4      486      441       402      442      498
Coffee                                                   420      281       262      175      155       178      203
Other                                                    182      203       224      266      247       264      294
Import ofgoods                                            1,357     1,558    1,611    1,558    1,598     1,658    1,742
Fuel                                                     143       111      250      292      247      236       245
Nonfuel                                                 1,213    1.447    1.361     1,266    1,351    1,422    1,497
Nonfactorservices(net)                                        139       114      149      129      114       137      167
Exportsofnonfactorservices                                  435      430      498       516      494      524       565
Importsofnonfactorservices                                  296      315      349      387       380      387      399
Income (net)                                                  -66       -52      -60      -Sl       -50      -42      -33
Of which - gross official interest payme,nls                -89      -82      -76       -70      -71      -72      -71
Private trasfers (net)                                        317       289      410      379      362       393      445
Current account balance, exci. official trae.sfers            -365     -723     -626     -659      -771     -729     -666
Official tansfers (net)                                     261      213      291       395      296      288       304
Current account balance, incl. official transfers             -104     -510     -335     -264      -475     -442     -362
Capital account balance (incl. errors and cnissions)          -403       37      -31      212       516      349      244
Foreigndirectinvestment(net)                                  7      136        51       52       40       60        70
Other investment (net)                                     -350     -281      -30       207      476      289       174
Official long-term loans                                -333     -263       -10      194      489      306       191
Disbursementa'                                         151      212      182       320      594      402      292
Amoetizaion '                                          485      474      191       126      105       96       101
Other public sector long-tenm (net)'                     -17       -18      -20      -14      -13       -17      -16
Other (net)                                                0         0      130       26        0         0        0
Errors and omissions                                        -60      182      -183      -73        0        0         0
Overall balance                                               -507     -473     -366      -52        40      -93     -118
Financing                                                     507       473      366       52       -40       93      li8
Centralbankl(net;increase-)                                    146      -15       44       39      -136     -170      -52
Reserves (increase-)                                         171      -23       63        12     -158     -183      -68
Liabilities(increase+)                                       -25        8       -19       27       22       13        15
Fund credit (net)                                           -6       14       -12       10       22       13        15
Disbursement                                               6        14        0       23       36        27       27
Repayments                                                 0         0      -12      -13      -14       -14      -12
Commercial banks(net;increaae-)                               -136       36      181       -26        0        0        0
Changes in arrears                                              52      122       40      -810        0        0        0
Debt relief(Paris Club 2 & 3, Naples terris)*                  445      330      101       849       40       37        18
Financing gap                                                    0        0        a         0       56      226       152
Exceptional financing'                                           0        0        0         O       13      120       55
Remaining gap                                                    0        0        0         0       39      106       97
Traditional debt relief                                                                               0        0         6
Remaining gap                                                                                0       39      106       91
Residual after HIPC                                                                                   0        0        0
W/ Includes debt rervice to Russia on rubtale-deriomninated debt before up-front discount throueh 1999/2000, thereafter after
up-front discount
bi Projections now include loans previously at own as eaceptional financing.
c/ Ethiopian Airlines and other publc enterprises.
d/lncludes 1997 Paris Club resceduling agreementt (ncludirg Russia) underNaples tem% covering mautntesnthrotgh end-1998
el noe Wodd Bank Economic Structural Adjustment Credi and increase in access by 10 percent of quota under the
IMFs Poverty Redaction and Growth Facility
Source Government of Ethiopia and staffestinatox



Annex G
Page 1 of I
Social Indicators
Latest single year           Same regionrincome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75     198045      1994-00            Africa      Income
POPULATiON
Total population, mid-year (millions)           33.0        43.4        64.3            658.6        2,458.7
Growth rate (% annual average for period)     2.6          2.8         2.6              2.6           1,9
Urban population (% of population)              9.5         11.7        17.6             34.4          31.9
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                              .                    5.3           3 7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                          ..                    46.6
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                             ..         120          100              480           420
Consumerprice index (1995=100)                   17          50          106              133           142
Food price index (1995=100)                       ..         52          101
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                 8 6         7.1
Highest quintile (5o of income orconstrmption)              41.3        47.7
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                              ..           ..         1.3              2.4           1.2
Education (% of GNI)                                       3.0         3.4              4.1           3.3
Social security and welfare (56 of GDP)                    1 4         0.3
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                          ..          29           32
Male                                         ..          33          40
Female'                                       .          25          25
Access to an Improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                          ..           ..         24                55            76
Urban                                        ..                      77               82             88
Rural                                         ..          .          13               41             70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                         .            .          53               57            64
DPT                                                        6..          4                59            70
Child malnutrition (56 under 5 years)             ..          ..          47
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                          42          44           42               47            59
Male 1                                        .           ..         41               46             58
Female 1                                      ..          ..         43                48            60
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)             151         143          104               92            77
Under 5(perthousand ive births)               239         213          166              159           116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                 482         491         567              499            288
Female (per 1,000 population) '             411         401         523              453            258
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)              ..           ..         705
Most recent data from the Govemment of Ethiopia.



Annex H
Page 1 of 1
Status of IDA and IFC Operations
(as of April 1, 2002, US$ million)
Closed Projects  63
Active Projects                                                                                           Diflerence
Between
Expectedend
Actual
Last PSR Supervision         Orlignal Amount In               Disbursements
Rating                   USS Mililons
Project ID  Project Name                Develooment Implement Flsecal IBRD   IDA GRANT Cancel Undlsh.    Orig.   Ffm
Oblectves    gdon     Year                                             Revd
P000733   AG RESEARC & TRAIN           HS               S      1998           60                   371    221
CONSERV.& SUSTAIN. ISE OF
P035147   MEDIC. PLANTS                S               S       2001                  1.9            1.6   -0.2
CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL
P052315   PLANTS                       S                S      2001           2 6                   24    -01
Demobilization and Reintigration
P073196   Project                      S                S      2001         1706                  1092      23
EDUCATION SECTOR
P000732   INVESTMENT                   S                U      1998          100                   33,5   20 3
EMERGENCY RECOVEFIY AND
P067084   REHAB PROJECT                S               S       2001          230                  181 7     86
P000736   ETENERGYII                   S                S      1998          200                   911    535
ETHIOPIA MULTISECTORAL
P069886   HIVIAIDS PROJECT             S                U      2001          59 7                   '17    1 2
P069083   GLOBAL DISTANCE LERNING     S                S      2001           4.9                   4 9    0 8
P000756   HEALTH SECTOR                S                U      1999          100                   58 3   43 3
P000753   NAT FERTILIZER PROJ          S                S      1995          164           0,1     38.7    28
P000752   NATIONALSEEDS PROJECT        S                S      1995           22           42       41    104
P000734   ROAD REHABILITATION          S                S      1993           96                   15.1   21 7   10 9
P000755   ROAD SEC DEV. PROC           S                S      1998         309 2                 169 8  166.5   51.5
P000771   Social Rehab(ESRDF I)        S                S      1996          120           11.5    216    473     8.4
P000764   WATER SUPPLY DEV&FREH        S                S      1996          35.7                   9.6   141
WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT
P050342   INITIATIVES PROJE CT         S                S      2001            5                    44     0 5
Overall
result                                                        Result       1679 7    1.9  15 7    830 2  513 3   70 9
Status of IFC Operations
(US$ millions)
Held                               Disbursed
FY Approval                       Company     Loan    Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan     Equity   Quasi    Partic
Approvab Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999          Sheba Tannery                                    5        3.57     0        0
Total Pending Commitment:                                      5        3.57     0        0



IMAGING
Report No.: P        7521   ET
Type:      PR



