Report No. PID10890
Project Name                     ETHIOPIA-Ethiopia Structural Adjustment...
Credit
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Other Economic Policy
Project ID                       ETPE74585
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: P.O. Box 1905,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Ato Mekonnen Manyazewal
Tel: 251 1 550107
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 23, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         February 19, 2002
Projected Board Date             June 6, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world, with an annual per
capita income of $100 (compared with $480 in SSA). One-third of the
population (64 million) lives on less than $1 a day and two thirds on less
than $2 a day. Ethiopia's ranking in the Human Development Index is low,
158 out of 162 countries in 2001. Life expectancy is 42 years, well below
the sub-Saharan average (47 years) and has decreased in recent years, a
result of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Ethiopia has the third largest number of
people with AIDS (about 3 million) in the world and the largest population
of AIDS orphans (about 750,000). Ethiopia has implemented a successful
stabilization program and wide-ranging structural reforms during the 1990s
- with IMF and IDA support. The economic situation deteriorated in late
1990s, with the intensification of the conflict with Eritrea - which
started in May 1998. In 1999/00, the fiscal deficit climbed to 11.4
percent of GDP, largely the result of an increase in military
expenditures. In addition, Ethiopia was hit by a drought and by a sharp
fall in the terms of trade. The signing of the peace accord with Eritrea
in December 2000 marked the resumption of reform efforts through the
preparation of an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP) - which
re-affirmed the Government's commitment towards poverty reduction. The
I-PRSP included a medium term economic strategy aimed at promoting growth
through a number of reforms - in the monetary, exchange rate management
and fiscal areas - and a competitive business environment. IDA's support
after the war was given through an interim Support Strategy (ISS) covering
12-24 months and including a number of operations addressing
demobilization and reconstruction as well as a $250 million balance of
payments support. A first operation of $150 million, the Economic
Rehabilitation Support Credit (ERSC) was disbursed in July 2001. The ERSC
provided initial support for the government's effort to stabilize the
economy, reallocate public spending to poverty-targeted sectors and resume



its poverty reduction efforts in three areas: (a) public sector
management; (b) public expenditure policy and management; and (c) private
sector development and export competitiveness. Since the Board approval of
the ERSC in June 2001, the Government has made significant progress in the
implementation of the entire reform program. The ESAC would provide the
remaining $100 million. An additional $20 million has been added to
partially cover the expected deterioration in the balance of payments that
is attributed to the worsening in the global environment following the
September 11 events.
2. Objectives
The proposed ESAC would be a single tranche, transition operation. Future
policy-based operations would spring from the CAS and the PRSP, which will
be completed by beginning of FY03. The ESAC would support the
implementation of the FY02 Action Plan, while further developing the
program of reforms developed under the ERSC and the I-PRSP. These are
summarized under three areas: 1) strengthening markets and institutions,
to improve the business climate and accelerate investment and growth; 2)
deepening civil sector reform and implement decentralization effectively,
to empower communities and improve the quality of service delivery; 3)
strengthening Public Expenditure Management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed Credit supports Government's efforts in stabilizing the
economy and maintaining a sustained path of growth.The ESAC is part of an
Interim Support Strategy (ISS) - endorsed by the IDA Board on December
2000 - to support Ethiopia's post-war recovery needs and help it return to
a sustainable growth path.
4. Description
The ESAC focuses on economy-wide reforms in support of the Government
pro-poor growth strategy, as outlined in the I-PRSP, the ERSC and in the
Government Action Plan for 2001/02. The program aims at :a) maintaining
macroeconomic stability and increasing growth; The Government has updated
its macroeconomic targets taking into account last year's macroeconomic
results - including the larger than expected decline in the terms of
trade, recent events in the world environment and the impact of the
September 11, 2001. Export prices of coffee are projected to fall further
by 15 percent in 2001/02, and then to increase in subsequent years. The
slowdown in the world economy is likely to result in lower demand for
exports and lower workers remittances. GDP is projected to average less
than 6 percent a year. Achieving this objective will largely depend on an
increase in Government investment, as well as on improving the business
environment for private investment, accelerating privatization efforts,
increasing infrastructure and further liberalizing the financial sector.
Monetary policy will continue to be geared to keeping inflation to low
single digits. The overall fiscal budget including grants is expected to
be 6.9 percent of GDP in 2001/02 - reflecting additional poverty-targeted
and capital outlays fully financed by concessional external assistance and
the enhanced HIPC assistance. The Government will continue to pursue a
prudent fiscal stance, reorienting defense expenditure to poverty-targeted
spending -which (including interim HIPC assistance) will increase from
14.9 percent of GDP in 2001/02 to 15.8 percent of GDP in 2002/03. The
external current account deficit will be contained to to 7.1 percent of
GDP in 2001/02.b) strengthening markets and institutions, to improve the
-2 -



business climate and accelerate investment and growth. The ESAC program
would include measures to improve the international competitiveness of the
economy providing a liberal import, FDI and foreign exchange & credit
regimes to allow exporters to take advantage of new market opportunities
such as the African Growth and Opportunity; and measures to promote
agricultural exports. Moreover, the program would include the
strengthening of the regulatory and institutional framework for
competition; preparing a draft    Communications Policy and a revision of
the Urban Land Lease Law; improving the functioning of the shipping and
air cargo markets; and reducing State participation in the economy by
bringing to the point of sale 37 enterprises during July 2001 to April
2002;c) deepening civil service and decentralization reforms, to enhance
public accountability and empower communities to improve the quality of
service delivery; this component will include: the implementation of civil
service legislation; the preparation of the civil service and pay reform;
automation of personnel management systems; enhancing accountability of
government institutions and empowering local governments to carry out
service delivery;d) strengthening public expenditure management, to
improve the quality of public services delivery. This will be achieved
through the adoption of the Macro-Economic and Fiscal Framework and the
Public Investment Program (PIP); adherence to the Financial Calendar; the
integration of recurrent and capital budget and the issuance of a joint
budget call; the adoption of a new accounting system, and the reduction of
the backlog of audits from over two years to one year for federal
spending; finally, the adoption of the Integrated Financial Information
Management System in selected agencies.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                             0
IDA                                120
Total Project Cost                 120
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development will have responsibility
for the overall management of the reform program. The Minister of Finance
and Economic Development coordinates a working group, which includes,
inter alia, the Minister and representatives from the Ministry of Trade,
the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Federal Civil Service Reform
Commission, the Prime Minister's Office and the National Bank of Ethiopia.
The group has been working closely with IDA and IMF staff in preparing the
reform program and will continue to monitor its implementation. A number
of technical committees, as detailed in the Policy Matrix have been
established to implement and monitor various aspects of the program and to
facilitate Government-donors dialogue. IDA and other donors will provide
technical assistance for the implementation effort as needed.
7. Sustainability
On the financing side, ESAC assistance is essential to provide a cushion
against the deterioration of the terms of trade. While the macroeconomic
situation has improved, Ethiopia's balance of payments remains fragile,
because of the decline in export revenues and the likely stagnation of
external demand in the near future. Financing from IDA, as well as other
donors, is crucial to move from stabilization towards rapid growth and
higher savings and investment. Finally, the resources made available
- 3 -



through the proposed ESAC are also intended to leverage critical reforms,
most of which have a fiscal impact, such as increased allocation to
poverty-targeted sectors. The additional resources will help finance the
process of decentralization and the improvement of service delivery for
poverty reduction.In the absence of the additional financing sought
through the proposed credit, Ethiopia's ability to proceed with the
planned reform agenda would be jeopardized.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons from similar operations in the Region and in the country
include the importance of i) Government ownership and strong constituency
in support of reform; ii) institutional capacity to implement and monitor
reforms.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed credit is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. The Credit has been placed in category C,
which does not require an environmental assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Miria A. Pigato
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2287
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 4 -



