Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3666 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 27, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3666 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 2002, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 19, 
2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's 
Page  2
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in  one 
single tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
‘“Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
Page  3
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Birr” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
“EIA” means The Ethiopian Investment Authority, established and operating 
pursuant to Proclamation No 37/1996  dated June 18, 1996;
(d)
“ESL” means the Ethiopian Shipping Lines, established and operating pursuant 
to Council of Ministers Regulation No 196/1994, dated July 8, 1994;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower's fiscal year beginning July 8 and 
ending July 7 of the next following year;
(f)
“MoFED” means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development;
(g)
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Borrower’s central bank;
(h)
“Proclamation, Directives, Regulations, and Circulars” mean various laws of the 
Borrower adopted respectively by the Borrower’s Parliament, Ministries, Regions and Public 
Agencies; and
(i)
“House of People’s Representatives” means one of the Borrower’s houses of 
parliament.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
96,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in NBE, a deposit account in 
Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
Page  5
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and 
November 15 commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2042. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
Page  6
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America  is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The minister responsible for Finance and Economic Development of the 
Borrower is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of finance and Economic Development
Ministry of finance and Economic Development
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
 21147
251-1-551355
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
Page  8
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By
/s/ Kassahun Ayele
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Page  9
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
Page  10
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party); and
6.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement
1.
Private Sector Development 
In accordance with paragraphs 11 and 13 of its Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower 
has furnished to the Association the evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association of the following:
(a)
Improvement of the business environment
(i)
approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft Trade Practice Proclamation 
covering anti-competitive practices, unfair trade practices and consumer protection;
(ii)
approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft amended Federal Urban Land 
Lease Proclamation, revised to: (A) secure lease holding and transfer rights; (B) remove 
constraints on the secondary lease market; and (C) establish the use of leasehold rights as 
collateral; and
(iii)
approval by the Council of Ministers of a draft amended Investment Code 
revised to: (A) remove the minimum investment requirements for 100% export oriented 
activities; (B) transfer the administration of duty free capital good imports for 100% 
export-oriented investments from EIA to the Customs administration; and (C) promote 
export-oriented non-equity based foreign collaboration.
(b) Reduction of transaction costs
Adoption by the Ministry of Trade  and Industry of a Directive: (i) mandating 
that a single bill of lading be issued by ESL for each consignment naming the actual 
importer as consignee; and (ii) creating of a system under said ministry for the 
Page  11
monitoring, on a regular basis, of prices, service quality, practices and overall 
performance of ESL, including reviews of countries subject to ESL’s monopoly rights.
2.
Public Sector Management and Service Delivery
In accordance with paragraphs 20, 22 and 24 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association of the following:
(a)
Expenditure management and prioritization
(i)
approval by the Council of Ministers of the civil service grievance 
system and procedures;
(ii)
approval by the Council of Ministers and  subsequent communication to 
the parliament of the macro-economic and fiscal framework and the 2002/04 
indicative planning figures; and
(iii)
issuance by MoFED of a joint budget call with a common calendar for 
the submission of 2002/03 capital and recurrent budgets.
(b)
Performance-enhancing incentives
Completion of the job classification and grading exercise, including new job 
groupings and grades.
(c)
Fiscal Monitoring and Accountability
In accordance with paragraphs 26 and 27 of its Letter of Development Policy, 
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association of the following:
(i)     (A)
closure of accounts at the federal level, consolidation of the 
federal accounts for 1999/00; and
(B)
closure of accounts at the regional level and consolidation of the 
regional accounts for 1998/99 and initiation of the financial 
audits thereof.
(ii)
automation of 50% of all personnel records at the federal level and 
preparation of an action plan for the reconciliation of such records with the 
payroll data.
Page  12
