Document of
The World Bank                 5     ?'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2835-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 18, 1980
Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia) duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =  SL Rs 15.60
SL Re 1           =  US$0.0641
SL Rs 1,000,000   =  US$64,100
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LISTS OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
AMA  -  Automatic Message Accounting
ANI  -  Automatic Number Identification
DEL  -  Direct Exchange Line
IDA  -  International Development Association
ITU  -  International Telecommunication Union
OTS  -  Overseas Telecommunications Service
PTD  -  Posts and Telecommunications Department
SPC  -  Stored Program Control
STD  -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
TAX  -  Trunk Automatic Exchange
UHF  -  Ultra High Frequency
UNDP - United Nations Development Program
VHF  -  Very High Frequency



SRI LANKA                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR ...............................                    1
Background and Organization                                    ..........        I
Access to Service .................        .............................         1
Telephone Service Usage .......3**....*s*.**.***.*.........  ...                3
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service.                       .. ..         3
Demand for Service ..................... .....  ...........                     4
Sector Goals ..*.o ......................................                       5
Sector Constraints  ......... . . . ......... ....         ................     7
The Bank's Role .........................                                       8
II.  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ............... ...   .......... .....               8
The Program        .............                                  ..   ...      8
Works Outside the IDA Project  ....9......                         ... so....   9
The Project ........           .     * *         ............ o...0.....        9
Project Costs  ...............................................    10
Contingencies .... ................. *oo.o.o.o.oo ..................           11
Sources of Financing and Items for IDA Financing                  ............    12
Procurement * * ..... *o.o,o.o ...... o           .  .... ..o.o.o. ..  ... . oo   13
Project Implementation ......                                      .......   13
Disbursements  ..............   I          ................................    13
Performance Indicators   .......... .... o ... .......  ...... ....*....    13
III.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ...............                              ...  ......    14
Telecommunications and Development  ...........              ...............   14
Distribution of Benefits *o.****....e.. o   ... *.*.....               ..o.   14
Tariffs   *****e.-*.. *6 *ae*o *..**.**.. ...*                        *        15
Least Cost Solution ....................    16
Return on Investment   ......  ..   ..* ... ... ........ . . ....... .   16
Risks                        ...... o.....                        oo.. . .. . . .o..o.    17
Environmental and Health Aspects ........................o..    17
This report is prepared by Messrs. D.F.D. Joshi and M. Sergo based on the
findings of a Bank appraisal mission comprising Messrs. S. Sathar (Engineer)
and M. Sergo (Financial Analyst) which visited Sri Lanka in November 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   THE  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY  ................                 ..       ...................        18
The  Organization                     ............................................             18
Telecommunications  Department  ...............................                                18
Fundamental  Planning  Unit  ...................................                               20
Staff ........................................................                                 20
Training  and  Consultancy  ....................................                               21
Accounting                  ..................................................                 22
Audit              .......................................................                     23
Billing  and  Collection  ......................................                               23
V.   FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  ..........................................                                 24
Background                  ..................................................                 24
Past  Financial  Performance  ..................................                               24
Present  Financial  Position  ..................................                               25
Valuation  of Assets  .........................................                                26
Financing  Plan                   ..............................................               26
Projected  Financial  Performance  .............................                               27
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .............................................                                  28
LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
1.   International Telephone  Statistics  ..............                     ..      ...........      31
2. Dispersion of Population and Telephone Lines Between Urban
and  Non-urban  Areas  ........................................                              32
3. Telephone Usage - Dispersion of Lines Between Businesses and
Residences  .................................................                                 33
4.   Telephone  Subscribers  by User  Category  ....                       ...................        34
5.   Dispersion  of Working  Lines  Based  on Revenue  .................                              35
6.   Existing  Telecommunications  Facilities  .......................                                36
7.   Growth  of Local  Telephone  Network  -  1971-90  ......... ..........                           37
8.   Summary  of  Program  Costs  and  Sources  of  Financing   .......                 .......       38
9.   Investment  Program -  1980-84  .................................                                39
10.   Ongoing  Works  and  Estimated  Expenditures  during  1980-84                          ......    40
11.   Other  Works  in  the  1980-84  Program  ...........................                             41
12.   Summary  of  Facilities  to be  Installed  Under  the  IDA Project  ..                           42
13.   Physical  Installation Under  the  Project                         ....      .............       43
14.   Contingency  Provisions  in  the  Project  Cost  Estimates   .                        .......    53
15.   Implementation  Schedule  (Chart  21161)  ........................                               54
16.   Schedule  of Disbursements  ....................................                                 55
17.   Performance  Indicators  .......................................                                 56
18.   Principal  Telecommunications  Tariffs  .........................                                57
19.   Rate  of Return  on  1980-84  Investment  Program  .................                             59
20.   Organization Chart  (Chart  21162)  .............................                                 61
21.   Suggested  Commercial  Accounting  Routines                        .    ....................     62
22.   Income  Statement  .............................................                                 63
23.   Balance  Sheet  ................................................                                 64
24.   Funds  Flow  Statement  .........................................                                65
25.   Notes  and Assumptions  on  Financial  Statements  ................                               66
26.   Related  Documents  and  Data Available  in Project  File  ......  *..                            69
MAP Microwave Radio Systems and Trunk Automatic Exchanges (IBRD 14824)



I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
1.01      The island nation of Sri Lanka has an area of about 25,300 sq mi
and an estimated population of 14.5 million (average population density:
about 560 per sq mi) of which about 77% live in rural areas. The average
per capita income is low--about US$200 in 1978--and has grown by only about
1% per year in the last two decades. Variation in topography, soil and pre-
cipitation, and a climate suitable for year-round cultivation, make agri-
culture a dominant economic activity in the country, ranging from small
holders to organized large-scale farming. Agriculture accounts for about
33% of the GDP, 50% of the total employment (95% in rural areas) and 80%
of the export earnings. Much of the activities in the manufacturing and
processing industries, and transport and service sectors are also directly
dependent on agriculture. Major towns and urban centers are interconnected
by a network of roads but these are inadequate to carry the burdens of a
growing economy. This, together with a generally underdeveloped infrastruc-
ture including telecommunications, impedes business, commerce, social services
and efficient administration of government services.
1.02      The domestic and international public telecommuniations services
in Sri Lanka are the charge of the Posts and Telecommunications Department
(PTD) 1/ under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. PTD also manages
the postal and other realted services, and regulates radio frequencies. A
few government agencies--defense and security services, railways, civil
aviation and some local administrations--operate their own private radio or
terrestrial networks under license from PTD. For many aspects relating to
its administration and operations, PTD is currently dependent on other
government departments whose policies may not be consistent with sound public
utility practices. All PTD's revenues are paid into the Government's Con-
solidated Revenue Fund; hence, PTD is dependent on government advances for
its recurrent and capital expenditures. PTD's proposals for additional staff
require approval of the Ministry of Public Administration. Land acquisition
and civil works are controlled by the Ministry of Lands and Land Development
and Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction respectively. In
absence of domestic manufacture, PTD is fully dependent on imports for all
its telecommunications equipment requirements.
Access to Service
1.03      The availability of telecommunications services in Sri Lanka is
about the average of other countries in Asia but poor compared to developed
countries in general (Annex 1). As of December 31, 1979, the average telephone
density in Sri Lanka was about 0.56 telephones or 0.37 direct exchange lines
1/   Wherever used in this report and as the context requires, PTD refers to
the existing Posts and Telecommunications Department and/or its successor,
the Telecommunications Department, when established (paragraph 4.04).



- 2 -
(DELs) per 100 population. 1/ The dispersion of DELs between the urban 2/
and rural areas is shown in Annex 2.  About 83% of the country's DELs are
concentrated in 131 urban areas which have about 23% of the total population
giving an average urban telephone density of 1.28 DELs per 100 population.
The remaining 17% of DELs are in about 1,740 other communities and villages
giving a highly inadequate telephone density in rural areas of only 0.08 DELs
per 100 population.  The Colombo metropolitan area with about 4.4% of the
country's population has about 64% of the total country's telephones; even
then, its telephone density of 5.2 is low compared to Manila (7.6), Singapore
(19.6) and Kuala Lumpur (21.0) though somewhat higher than Bombay (4.6),
Bangkok (4.8) and Karachi (3.0).
1.04      For the purposes of local government administration, population
centers have been classified as municipal councils (9), urban councils (36),
town councils (86) and village councils (542). All these centers have access
to some telephone service--420 through mostly small telephone exchanges and
the remaining 253 through long distance public call offices. About 1,100
long distance public call offices serve other rural communities below the
level of village councils. Telegraph facilities are available at all popu-
lation centers of the level of village councils and above. However, except
for a few teleprinters in important towns, telegraph service is operated
through morse or phonogram; the latter, apart from inaccuracies in trans-
mission impairs the telephone servce by utilizing scarce telephone circuits
for long periods without producing any revenue. There is no domestic telex
service but about 300 important business and government agencies have access
to international telex.
1.05      In order to obtain a telephone connection, a potential subscriber
must register with the PTD to be placed on the waiting list for the particu-
lar exchange serving his area. Subject to availability of exchange equipment
and cable capacity, and technical feasibility for the particular telephone,
connections are given in order of the date of application. Waiting lists
are maintained only in areas where service is now available. The total
number of pending applications registered on the waiting lists at the end of
1979 was about 23,250 (Colombo: 9,000; rest of the country: 14,250).
Depending on individual exchange areas, the waiting period for a new tele-
phone connection can be up to four years in Colombo and longer in the rest of
the country.
1/   Current ratio of telephones to direct exchange lines ia bout 1.5.  Due
to shortage of exchange capacity and external plant, PTD has installed
telephone extensions even when a subscriber's actual requirement is for
additional exchange lines. Hence, telephone density based on direct
exchange lines (DELs) better represents the telephone penetration.
2/   For purposes of this report, areas with municipalities, urban councils
or town councils are classified as urban areas (paragraph 1.04). All
other areas are classified as rural areas.



-3
Telephone Service Usage
1.06      The distribution of telephone lines between government, business
and residential users for a few representative exchanges in the country is
given in Annex 3. The dispersion of lines between different business users
is given in Annex 4. About 44% of all telephone lines are located in busi-
ness establishments and 31% in government offices. However, actual business
usage is even higher than these figures indicate because many telephones used
primarily for business are known to be located in residential quarters
adjacent to business premises, partly as a result of the residential tele-
phone rental being only 40% of business telephone rental. Sample assessment
has shown that about 40-50% of telephones rented as "residential" are used
primarily for business purposes.
1.07      The traffic generated by government and business connections over
a 24-hour period accounts for about 85% of the total. The actual impact of
business-related usage is greater since most of the traffic generated by the
business and government connections and by the residential connections used
for business purposes is concentrated in a few peak calling hours and it
is this peak hour calling rate which determines the traffic and engineering
design of the system and hence its costs.  The importance of large business
and government users is also illustrated by the fact that about 6% of the
connections, with average monthly bills of over SL Rs 700 each, generate
about 37% of the total revenue as shown in Annex 5 and summarized below:
Average Monthly Revenue per Line (SL Rs)_
Cumulative    Over    Over    Over    Over    Over    Over
Percent of   1,000      700     500      300      100      50
Connections    2.8      6.0    19.0    42.3    74.3    98.1
Revenue        28.5    37.2    47.2    68.0    74.1    79.8
1.08      The pattern of trunk traffic reflects the predominance of Colombo
as the center of the national economy. About 75% of the total long distance
traffic generated in the national network originates from or terminates in
Colombo. In small exchanges, about 50% of the total traffic generated is
for the administrative headquarter of the revenue district which is also
usually the commercial and trade center for the area.
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service
1.09      Due to inadequate investment and lack of proper planning in the
sector in the past, the telecommunications network exhibits a number of
deficiencies. The available telecommunications facilities (Annex 6) are
meager, generally poor in quality and, in many cases, highly fault-prone.
Consequently, the quality of all domestic services is generally poor.
Though 98% of the local switching equipment is automatic, only about 16%
located in 12 (out of 257) automatic exchanges is modern. The rest com-
prises antiquated worn-out automatic equipment or manual boards for all of



which spare parts are a problem. Shortage of telephone lines vis-a-vis the
expressed demand has increased the calling rate on available telephones
which are kept busy for long periods. Repeated attempts to call these busy
telephones further increase the traffic in the exchanges, exacerbating the
already severe traffic congestion in the network due to common plant short-
age. This, combined with technical faults in the worn-out switching equip-
ment and in the poorly constructed distribution network--open-wire in most
towns--leads to many call failures. Many long distance and international
calls are shown to fail due to the deficient local networks.
1.10      Except for a few radio and coaxial cable systems, mostly in the
southcentral and southwest, the national long distance network primarily com-
prises open-wire trunk lines and carrier systems subject to frequent long
interruptions. Copper wire thefts further exacerbate the problem. Thirteen
towns have subscriber trunk dialing (STD) facilities among themselves; the
rest of the country is served by manual trunk service. Delays on operator-
controlled calls average four to six hours and result in many subscriber can-
cellations of booked calls. Test calls have shown that STD service is also
poor due to network congestion resulting from shortage of long distance cir-
cuits and repeat call attempts when trying to call into local networks which
are tied up with heavy local usage. Consequent diversion of traffic from STD
to manual trunk service adds to the overload on trunk switchboards. The poor
quality of domestic long distance service reduces the demand for new tele-
phones in rural areas where telephones are mainly used for long distance
commercial and administrative calls. Telegrams are transmitted mainly via
morse or phonogram but many telegrams are also sent by post due to shortage or
non-availability of telegraph circuits. Absence of automated telegraph
switching and concentration of all manual transit operations in Colombo also
contribute heavily towards the delays on telegrams. International calls are
operator-controlled and connected primarily over satellite circuits except for
calls to southern India which are currently connected over an old UHF radio
system due to be replaced by a high capacity microwave radio system in 1980.
Subject to the availability of domestic links, the international services are
satisfactory.
Demand for Service
1.11      Given the very low level of past investment in the sector and the
large areas of the country now without service, it is difficult to accurately
forecast the future demand for telephones in Sri Lanka. PTD has not made
any systematic attempt to forecast future demand. Neither (toes the current
expressed demand reflect the real demand at existing prices because:
(a) demand is not registered in areas currently without telephone service;
(b) many potential customers are discouraged from applying by the current
long waiting lists and waiting periods; and (c) in rural areas, where tele-
phones are primarily used for long distance calls, potential customers are
discouraged by the current poor quality of long distance telephone service.
1.12      Experience in other countries in similar stages of development
suggests that, once the quality of service is improved and the waiting period



for new connections is reduced, there will be a large increase in demand.
PTD had assessed the annual growth in demand at about 9% which is conservative
but acceptable. Even at this conservative growth rate, and after adding about
36,700 new DELs during the project period, it is estimated that there will
still be an unsatisfied demand in areas with service of about 28,000 against
about 90,300 DELs at the end of 1984.
Sector Goals
1.13      PTD's broad sector goals in the next 10 to 15 years are to improve
the quality of service to existing subscribers, provide increased access to
service in areas currently served and extend communications to the more
important rural areas now unserved. PTD plans to move towards these objec-
tives under the proposed project by:
(a)  upgrading the existing local networks by replacing the
more heavily worn automatic switching equipment and local
manual exchanges by modern automatic equipment, and the
open-wire lines in the critical parts of the local dis-
tribution networks by cables;
(b)  upgrading the long distance network by replacing the
open-wire lines on major arterial routes by stable high
capacity radio systems;
(c)  significantly expanding the existing local telephone
networks in Colombo and other major towns;
(d)  appreciably improving the access to service in rural
areas by increasing the capacity of existing local
exchanges and installing new exchanges and long distance
public call offices in major population centers now
without service;
(e)  expanding the long distance network to cater to the addi-
tional traffic generated by new subscribers and providing
STD service between important centers of government
administration, business and commerce;
(f)  improving the domestic telegraph service through conversion
from morse or phonogram to teleprinters at all important
centers, extending telegraph service to all communities
with rural post offices, and introducing automatic telegraph
switching at all traffic distribution centers;
(g)  providing domestic telex service to major centers in the
country; and
(h)  institutional improvements over a wide spectrum of managerial,
financial and operational activities.



1.14      For implementation of the above objectives, PTD has drawn up a
1980-84 development program (including the proposed project) which is
appreciably larger than any program undertaken in the past in terms of both
investment and physical installations as indicated below:
Percent
1976-79       1980-84       Increase
Average annual investment
(US$ Millions)                     8.2          21.3           160
Average number of DELs
connected annually               2,641          4,660           76
The higher increase in average annual investment compared to increase in DELs
is due to heavy investments on replacements and extensive long distance and
rural telecommunications facilities under the proposed project.
1.15      The increase in exchange capacity, DELs and other parameters from
1971 to 1979 and the forecast growth from 1980 to 1990 are shown in Annex 7.
Selected parameters reflecting estimated changes in access to service over
the project period are indicated below:
At End of Year      Percent
1979      1984      Increase
Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)
Sri Lanka                                 53,600    90,400         68
Colombo Metropolitan Area                 26,300    39,600         51
Rest of Sri Lanka                         27,300    50,800         86
Telephones per 100 Population
Sri Lanka                                   0.56       0.86        54
Colombo Metropolitan Area                   6.18       8.53        38
Rest of Sri Lanka                           0.30       0.50        67
Telephone Availability l' (Percent)
Sri Lanka                                     70         76         9
Colombo Metropolitan Area                     76         80         5
Rest of Sri Lanka                             65         74        14
Unsatisfied Demand
Sri Lanka                                 23,250    27,900         20
Colombo Metropolitan Area                  8,300    10,000         20
Rest of Sri Lanka                         14,950    17,900         20
1/   Telephone availability is defined as the ratio of DELs to expressed
demand.  (Expressed demand is the sum of DELs plus unsatisfied demand).



-7-
Sector Constraints
1.16      The major constraints impeding development of the sector have been
inadequate investment in the past, continued reliance of obsolete equipment
designs and manual operations, and institutional deficiencies.
1.17      Financial.  After meeting its operating expenses, PTD is able to
generate adequate local funds needed for its expansion program. After the
proposed increase in international telephone and telex tariffs (paragraph
3.09) and as STD and telex services with their high revenue potential are
expanded, PTD could, at the end of the project period, generate local funds
surplus to its needs. However, under the present institutional arrangement
whereby PTD is required to deposit all its revenues with the Treasury, the
development of the sector is tied to government advances for capital expen-
diture, including foreign exchange for imports. Hence, the Government's
willingness to make funds available for PTD's investments is a constraint on
sector expansion.
1.18      Institutional.  The management under one entity of the capital
intensive, high technology and rapid growth telecommunications services
together with the labor intensive and low growth postal services tends to
inhibit efficient management and development of the telecommunications
services. The absence of a long-term planning organization, shortage of
engineers and inadequate training facilities also inhibit development. A
further problem is the inadequate telecommunications background of the
traffic staff who control all day-to-day traffic, operational and customer
related functions, and their recruitment from and interchangeability with
the postal staff. The overcentralization of traffic functions leads to
long delays in utilization of installed facilities for new connections with
cnsequent loss of potential revenues and poor service. PTD needs to under-
take urgently a manpower study to assess the manpower required, and there-
after ensure adequate availability of personnel trained in appropriate skills
without further incresing the staff-telephone ratio. The management of tele-
communications services should be separated from the postal services and
day-to-day management decentralized to regional or exchange levels as appro-
priate.
1.19      Technical.  Continued reliance on obsolete equipment, besides
inhibiting satisfactory service, has in the past also prevented adoption of
least-cost solutions for network designs, and deprived customers and PTD of
benefits and facilities offered by new equipment. In addition, somewhat ad
hoc bilateral assistance and suppliers' credits have contributed to haphazard
and piecemeal development. PTD, therefore, needs to provide for phased re-
placement of obsolete and ill-suited equipment on a national and controlled
basis.



-8-
The Bank's Role
1.20      Though the Bank has not been involved previously in the telecommuni-
cations sector in Sri Lanka, the proposed investment under the project would
be timely at this stage when a major countrywide effort towards increasing
public access to telecommunications facilities is being undertaken for the
first time. The Bank could play a significant role in guiding the Government
and the entity in various facets of development, operation and management of
telecommunications services, e.g. (a) guide the entity in integrated develop-
ment with emphasis on improving access to service in rural areas, and expan-
sion of facilities which nave high revenue potential such as those providing
long distance and international telephone and telex services; (b) guide the
Government and the entity on important decisions on investment priorities and
pricing policies consistent with development in other sectors; (c) provide
technical assistance to the entity in adoption and procurement of modern
equipment at least cost in a field where the international rate of change in
technology--and obsolescence--is the highest; (d) assist in identification and
implementation of much needed institutional improvements over a wide spectrum
of managerial, operational and financial activities; and (e) serve as a
catalyst to attract external funds more significantly than in the past and on
a more coordinated and better planned basis.
II. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
2.01      PTD has drawn up a five-yar (1980-84) telecommunications develop-
ment program comprising the following components:
(a) ongoing works carried over from the previous years into
the program period (paragraph 2.03);
(b) works under the project proposed for IDA financing
(paragraph 2.06);
(c) other works to be executed during the program period
(paragraph 2.04); and
(d) preinvestment for development works to be undertaken
from 1985 onwards (paragraph 2.05).
2.02      The estimated cost of the 1980-84 program is SL Rs 1,659.0 million
(US$106.4 million) with foreign costs of SL Rs 1,358.0 million (US$87.1
million). The local and foreign costs of the different components of the
program and the sources of financing are given in Annex 8. The annual
investments for the years 1980 to 1984 are detailed in Annex 9. The total
net increase in fixed assets (before revaluation) between 1980 and 1984 is
expected to be SL Rs 1,280.0 million (US$82.1 million), an increase of
nearly 220% over the end 1979 values.



- 9-
Works Outside the IDA Project
2.03      Ongoing Works.  Brief details of the ongoing works, estimated
expenditure during 1980-84, and anticipated completion dates are given in
Annex 10. The total investment on ongoing works during the project period
is estimated at SL Rs 805.0 million (US$51.6 million) including a foreign
component of SL Rs 655.4 million (US$42.0 million).
2.04      Other Works.  Subject to availability of financing for their
foreign costs, PTD proposes to undertake during the project period other
works as per details at Annex 11 which would supplement the development
under the project. However, delays in execution of any or all of these works
will not affect the implementation of the project or realization of major
benefits thereof. The estimated cost of these works is Sl Rs 237.6 million
(US$15.2 million) including foreign cost of Sl Rs 194.6 million (US$12.5
million).
2.05      Preinvestment.  Some advance works will be undertaken in the 1980-
84 period in respect of items scheduled for the next phase of development.
The preinvestment on these works is estimated at SL Rs 50.0 million (US$3.2
million) with a foreign content of SL Rs 40.0 million (US$2.6 million).
Funds for these works have still to be arranged.
The Project
2.06      The project proposed for IDA financing is a high priority self-
contained component of the 1980-84 program. It provides for a balanced and
integrated development of telecommunications facilities and some essential
institutional improvements to be implemented between 1980 and 1984. The main
physical components of the project are as follows:
(a) installation of about 9,300 lines of local automatic
exchange equipment in 88 exchanges 1/, about 41,600
pair-kilometers of telephone cables, and associated
subscriber's plant for connection of about 16,200
lines and 250 local public call offices;
(b) replacement of 7,900 lines of antiquated, worn-out local
switching equipment in 268 exchanges (144 manual exchanges
and 46 rural automatic exchanges to be closed, and 78
exchanges to be replaced), and about 31,400 pair-kilometers
of old cables;
(c) installation of three new trunk automatic exchanges
with about 650 terminations, and expansion of existing
eight trunk automatic exchanges by about 650 terminations;
1/   Includes 78 exchanges which are fully replaced as per item (b).



- 10 -
(d)  installation of automatic number identification equipment
(ANI) in all existing local exchanges and automatic
message accounting equipment (AMA) in four tertiary trunk
automatic exchanges for introduction of toll-ticketing and
installation of bill processor;
(e)  upgradation of two microwave systems and installation of
five new microwave systems, about 150 UHF/VHF systems and
multiplex equipment for about 5,250 channel ends for the
above systems;
(f)  installation of about 500 long distance call offices for
extension of service to rural population centers with post
offices, but currently without telephone service; and
(g)  civil works and other facilities for implementing the
project.
2.07      Annexes 12 and 13 indicate the facilities to be added under the
project and their scheduled commissioning dates. The map (IBRD 14824) shows
the existing microwave radio system and trunk automatic exchanges, those
under installation under ongoing works, and the new systems and exchanges
to be installed under the project.
Project Costs
2.08      The total cost of the project is estimated at SL Rs 566.4 million
(US$36.3 million) with foreign cost of SL Rs 468.0 million (US$30.0 million).
The schedule below summarizes the cost of major components of the project.
The base costs reflect the estimated early 1980 prices and are based on PTD's
experience with contracts relating to ongoing works with adjustments to bring
them up to the projected early 1980 levels. The projected costs are reason-
able. PTD is exempt from payment of customs duty on imported telecommunica-
tions equipment and pays no taxes; hence, local costs amount to about 17% of
total costs.



- 11 -
SL Rs Million                 US$ Million
Item                  Local   ForeiRn   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Local Facilities
Switching equipment        16,06      78.00   94.06      1.03      5.00     6.03
Cables and accessories    26.05       78.00  104.05       1.67     5.00      6.67
Subscriber's plant          5.00       7.80   12.80      0.32      0.50     0.82
Sub-total               47.11    163.80  210.91       3.02    10.50    13.52
Long Distance Facilities
Switching equipment         2.50      15.60   18.10      0.16      1.00      1.16
Microwave systems            5.92     46.80   52.72       0.38     3.00      3.38
UHF/VHF systems             14.82     78.00   92.82      0.95      5.00      5.95
ANI and AMA equipment
and bill processor        0.62      39.00   39.62      0.04      2.50     2.54
Sub-total               23.86    179.40  203.26       1.53    11.50    13.03
Air conditioning equipment   1.10        7.80    8.90       0.07     0.50      0.57
Standby generators             1.10      7.80    8.90      0.07      0.50      0.57
Vehicles and cable laying
equipment                    2.33     15.60   17.93      0.15      1.00      1.15
Training equipment and
office machines              1.00      7.80    8.80      0.06      0.50     0.56
Consultancy service            0.10      7.80    7.90      0.01      0.50      0.51
Estimated base costs         76.60    390.00  466.60       4.91    25.00    29.91
Contingencies
Physical                     1.56      7.80    9.36      0.10      0.50      0.60
Price                      20.28      70.20   90.48      1.30      4.50     5.80
Total contingencies    21.84       78.00   99.84      1.40      5.00     6.40
Estimated total project
costs                      98.44    468.00  566.44       6.31    30.00    36.31
Contingencies
2.09      The provisions for equipment and civil works under the project
are based for the most part on detailed designs and engineering. In view of
this, the proposed quantities are not expected to change significantly. Also,
the continuous and dispersed nature of telecommunications development allows
adequate flexibility for adjustments and experience has shown that unexpected
increases at some points are compensated by decreases at others. However, to
cover unforseen requirements over the 5-year project period, a physical
contingency amounting to 2% of annual base lQcal and foreign costs has been
provided and is considered adequate.



- 12 -
2.10      Price contingencies have been provided on the basis of the follow-
ing year-by-year increases in base local and foreign costs plus physical con-
tingency: 1980 - 10.5%; 1981 - 9%; 1982 - 8%; 1983 and 1984 - 7% each year.
Telecommunications equiipment contracts are normally made on a fixed price
basis; hence, the foreign costs increases are applied to the contract date.
Major equipment cont- icts are likelv to be sir,ned in 1981 and 1982 and most
of the equipment siupt Lied by the end of 1983. Based on this, the local and
foreign price contingencies amount to 25.6% ard 17.6% respectively of base
costs plus physical contingencies (Annex 14).
Sources of Financing and Items for IDA Financing
2.11      The local cost of the project (US$ 6.31 million) shall be financed
from advances to PTD by the Government. The foreign cost of the project shall
be financed in full by the proposed IDA credit of US$30 million.
2.12      The items for IDA financing (in US$ million) are as follows:
Local telephone exchange equipment                   5.0
Telephone cables, associated plant
and accessories                                    5.0
Subscriber facilities, public tele-
phones and associated plant                        0.5
Trunk switching equipment                            1.0
Automatic number identification and message
accounting equipment, and bill processor           2.5
Transmission equipment                               8.0
Air conditioning equipment                           0.5
Standby generators                                   0.5
Vehicles and cable laying equipment                  1.0
Training equipment and office machines               0.5
Consultancy services                                 0.5
Contingencies                                        5.0
TOTAL                                         30.0
The training equipment and consultancy requirements and the basis of consul-
tants' costs are discussed in paragraphs 4.11 and 4.12.



- 13 -
Procurement
2.13      All equipment to be financed through the IDA credit shall be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines for such procurement, except for automatic switching equipment
worth US$0.7 million (2.3% of IDA credit) required for extension of eight
existing combined local and trunk exchanges. For purposes of compatibility,
equipment required for extension of these exchanges is proposed to be pro-
cured through negotiations with the supplier of the existing equipment (NEC
of Japan). IDA credit would be utilized for such procurement provided the
prices are reasonably in line with prices of similar equipment procured
through recent international competitive bidding in Sri Lanka and elsewhere.
Qualified domestic manufacturers of items such as cable ducts and accessories,
air conditioning equipment, etc., would be allowed a preference in bid evalua-
tion of 15% of the CIF price or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever
is lower. To meet any emergency requirements, PTD will be permitted to pur-
chase off-the-shelft items with the provision that the cost of each such
item does not exceed US$10,000 with an aggregate limit of US$250,000. The
local procurement system permits competition and is satisfactory, and will be
used for procurement of small items manufactured locally.
Project Implementation
2.14      The proposed project implementation schedule is set out in Annex 15
and is realistic. PTD engineers will prepare engineering designs and tech-
nical specifications for all equipment execept for electronic switching equip-
ment for the local and trunk automatic exchanges for which consultants are to
be employed. PTD would lay and commission all cables and supervise the laying
of cable ducts and other civil works by local contractors. PTD staff will
carry out all equipment installations except in case of new sophisticated
types of switching equipment where they would work under the supervision of
the supplier's staff. All acceptance and commissioning tests will be carried
out by PTD engineers. PTD management is capable of managing the works under
the project satisfactorily and no delays are anticipated in implementation.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.
Disbursements
2.15      The estimated schedule of disbursements is set out in Annex 16.
Disbursements would be made 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported
goods including cost of supplier supervision where necessary, 100% of ex-
factory prices of locally manufactured items, 75% of the costs of items pro-
cured locally off-the-shelf and 100% of foreign costs of consultants. IDA
disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.
Performance Indicators
2.16      A set of indicators which will help monitor PTD's performance on
project implementation and its operational and financial performance are
set out in Annex 17.



- 14 -
III. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS 1/
Telecommunications and Development
3.01      The usage of telephone service in Sri Lanka is heavy with substantial
unsatisfied demand and significant traffic congestion in the local network in
Colombo and in the long distance network. The expressed demand as currently
forecast is not expected to be met by the end of the project period in 1984
(Annex 7).                                                                                     *
3.02      The growth in national economy is currently hampered by inadequacy
of the essential infrastructure. With the stress by Government on steady
expansion of the agricultural base of the economy, dispersal of industry into
regions outside Colombo, development of tourism, etc., the need for better
communications is increasing rapidly and for an increasing proportion of the
population, some form of telecommunications service is becoming the least cost
means of communications.
3.03      PTD's 1980-84 development program provides for (a) increased distri-
bution of telecommunications services to regions outside Colombo; (b) improved
access to service in the isolated rural areas; (c) upgrading of the quality of
local and long distance services through part replacement of antiquated and
worn-out switching equipment and open-wire lines; and (d) expansion of the
system capacity. In Sri Lanka, the telephone and telegraph services tend to
function as inputs in the production of goods and services, and are heavily
used in most agricultural, industrial, commercial, government and service
activities. The project will help economic integration and administrative
and management efficiency in Sri Lanka by: (a) reducing loss in marketing
efficiency and in production resulting from lack of communications; (b)
reducing wastage of resources consumed by higher cost means of communication
such as transport; (c) facilitating improvement in service sectors and in
transport and delivery services in both urban and rural areas; (d) bringing
more efficient government administration to rural areas; and (e) reducing the
wastage of time caused by telephone users having to make repeated call attempts
during daytime business hours.
Distribution of Benefits
3.04      There are both efficiency and equity aspects to the distribution
of benefits from the proposed project. The benefits resulting from the
proposed investment will be felt directly or indirectly by all segments of
the Sri Lanka's society. The greater efficiency in the administration of
business and government and in the implementation of projects in other
development sectors, and the upgrading of facilities for use in social
service sectors such as health and education should impact throughout the
nation.
1/   The economic analysis in this section relates to the 1980-84 telecommuni-
cations development program of which the IDA project is an integral
part.



- 15 -
3.05      Regarding the equity aspects of the project, telephone service will
be significantly expanded into the rural areas. Provision of about 500 long
distance public call offices in small communities in rural areas with post
offices but without access to telecommunications services, and about 125 local
call offices in urban areas will extend public access to telephone facilities
to a broad spectrum of the population both in geographic and economic terms.
The establishment of national high-capacity stable long distance transmission
links through upgradation and expansion of existing systems, and installation
of new systems, will provide a base from which small capacity radio links can
be subsequently extended to many more small communities in the hinterland.
The increased access to the telecommunication services in rural areas together
with a financial cross-subsidy from more profitable urban centers to those
rural facilities which prove to be financially unprofitable should ensure a
more equitable distribution of the benefits of the telephone service in Sri
Lanka.
3.06      Finally, the proposed investment program should have a favorable
long-term impact on government financps. At the end of the development
program, revenues generated by the telecommunications sector and deposited
with Consolidated Revenue Funds of the Government in excess of advances to the
PTD for telecommunications operations and development can be used for develop-
ment projects in other sectors.
Tariffs
3.07      PTD's current domestic telecommunications tariffs came into force
on March 1, 1980. The total increase averaged about 25% over their previous
levels. Nevertheless, tariffs are still low given the large excess demand
for connections and the significant traffic congestion. A summary of prin-
cipal tariffs is set out in Anenx 18.
3.08      Local calls are charged on an untimed basis.  In an effort to
ensure that subscribers with the greatest need at peak hours, primarily
business and government, pay a price which more closely reflects the cost
which they impose on the system, long distance calls are priced higher during
prime business hours than during nights and weekends. Rental charges for
business and government commercial entities are higher than rentals for
private and other government subscribers. Due to high traffic congestion and
long waiting times (paragraphs 1.09 and 1.10), subscribers in areas with STD
facility often require operator assistance to connect their long distance
calls. Such "operator connected STD calls" have a surcharge of Rs 1.0 per
call as compared with the rate for normal STD calls (Annex 18, 3(b) and (c)),
and unlike STD calls, full three minute periods are charges even if only a
fraction is used. Furthermore, the night and weekend discount is substan-
tially lower for operator assisted calls. This differentiation in tariff is
justified as the costs for operator connected calls are higher than that for
the pure STD calls. When long distance facilities are improved during the
project period, the lower STD tariff will induce subscribers to use



- 16 -
the facilites for automatic long distance dialing instead of requiring
assistance by operator. Telecommunications tariffs should be designed to
generate adequate funds and allocate scarce resources to meet the Government's
goals of efficiency and equity. The terms of reference of the proposed
Fundamental Planning Unit (paragraph 4.08) provide for a review of the tele-
communications tariffs in conjunction with the Tariff Committee of the PTD.
3.09      PTD's international tariffs were increased about 40% in October
1978 as a consequence of the November 1977 devaluation of the Rupee by about
85% from its previous level. International tariffs were low even before the
November 1977 devaluation and the tariff increase was insufficient to correct
this situation.  As a consequence, PTD's current collection rates are substan-
tially below the international accounting rates (Annex 18, items 4 and 5),
which has contributed to distort traffic patterns with an unproportionately
high outgoing international traffic as compared with incoming traffic.
Furthermore, the low international rates have a serious negative impact on PTD's
finances (in extreme cases PTD pays foreign administrations more for their
participation in a call than it collects from its subscribers). An increase
in international tariffs of about 40% is needed to put PTD's collection rates
on par with the international accounting rates for telephone and telex calls,
which would be in line with the recommendations of the International Telecom-
munication Union (ITU) and would help to reduce the current distortion of
international traffic. This matter was discussed with PTD's management and
Government. The need for a revision of international tariffs was recognized
and no objections were raised against the mission's proposals. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that, by September 30, 1980, PTD's collec-
tion rates for international telephone and telex calls will be raised to
about the level of the accounting rates.
Least Cost Solution
3.10      The configuration of existing network and the development targets
proposed under PTD's 1980-84 program do not give much scope for viable alter-
native technical solutions. The works under the IDA project are based on
standard engineering and economic techniques, appropriate provisioning periods
for various plants, and studies designed to determine the least cost solution
for each work. The technologies adopted (e.g., SPC-stored program control-
digital exchanges; microwave, UHF and VHF radio systems) are acceptable and
effective in promoting low initial installation and recurring maintenance
costs.  The dimensioning and timing of the works under the project are based
on the least cost means of meeting the project targets.
Return on Investment
3.11      The internal financial rate of return, defined as the discount rate
which equalizes the present value of cost and revenue streams (at 1979 pur-
chasing power) attributable to the program, is 17%.
3.12      This rate of return significantly understates the real benefits
to be derived from the investment program partly because the benefits



- 17 -
stream used in the calculation does not include any consumer surplus which
telephone users receive. The 1980 increase in tariffs (paragraph 3.07)
caused virtually no decrease in traffic or reduction in applicants on
waiting lists indicating a substantial amount of consumer surplus. With
projected high inflation, prices are expected to fall in real terms. To
illustrate, a portion of the consumer surplus can be estimated by (a)
tabulating over the program period the prices in 1979 real terms, which the
existing subscribers and e-xisting registered applicants have demonstrated a
willingness to pay; (b) assuming that the new applicants will also be willing
to pay the same amount as existing subscribers and waiting applicants have
demonstrated a willingness to pay; and (c) assuming that the projected increase
in international tariffs will be accepted without decrease in traffic. Given
these assumptions, all of which are considered reasonable, the quantifiable
estimate of the economic rate of return would be 33%. PTD employs mostly
skilled labor of which there is no surplus in Sri Lanka and the exchange rate
for the SL Re reflects fairly its market value; hence no shadow price adjust-
ments are necessary.
Risks
3.13      There are no unusual risks associated with the project.  A possible
risk may arise out of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen cir-
cumstances such as delays in receipt of equipment which is virtually fully
imported. However, in telecommunications projects which comprise a large
number of independent works, a delay i,n implementation of a few works does
not generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. Furthermore,
the costs and benefits are also delayed in roughly the same degree so the
impact on the return on investment is not significant. A sensitivity analy-
sis on the financial rate of return (Annex 19) indicates that a combination
of 10% higher capital and operating costs and 10% lower revenues would result
in an internal financial rate of return of not less than 13%.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.14      No adverse environmental or health effects are expected from the
project. Telecommunications works have very little negative impact on the
environment. The plant consumes little energy. On the other hand, through
its use as an alternative to communications involving physical movements,
telecommunications has the potential to conserve energy and reduce environ-
mental pollution, particularly in Colombo and other urban areas where better
telephone facilities are expected to slow the growth in vehicular traffic.
Better telecommunications would also result in better utilization of trans-
port for movements of food, medicine and patients in emergency situations.



- 18 -
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Organization
4.01      PTD, the proposed beneficiary and the project implementing agencv,
is a government department under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications.
The head of the PTD is the Postmaster-General and Director of Telecommunica-
tions, his title reflecting the two services--postal and telecommunications--
which are his charge. PTD has grown along historically established lines and
is functionally divided into six divisions--Administration, Finance and
Accounts, Postal, Telecommunications Engineering, Traffic and Oveseas Tele-
communications (Anenx 20).
4.02      The Administration and the Finance and Accounts Divisions are
shared between the postal and telecommunications branches for budgeting,
accounting and personnel related functions. The Engineering Division is
responsible for planning, development and engineering maintenance of domestic
telecommunications services whereas the Overseas Division performs similar
functions for international services. In the engineering branch, the number
of qualified personnel is insufficient, particularly in the planning and
development wings, but the shortage is currently offset to some degree by
their high caliber. The Traffic Division provides the commercial interface
with the telecommunications customers and also operates all manual telephone
exchanges and the public telegraph system. The traffic staff are mainly
recruited from and interchangeable with the postal staff. Few of the traffic
staff have telecommunications background. Traffic engineering and traffic
management essential to proper development of a fully automatic service are
lacking. Management of most of the operations and even of day-to-day customer
related functions is overcentralized in Colombo, resulting in poor operational
efficiency, long delays in full utilization of installed assets in spite of
pending demand, customer dissatisfaction and loss of revenue.
Telecommunications Department
4.03      The problems of management of the capital intensive, high techno-
logy and rapid growth telecommunications services and the labor intensive,
slow growth postal services are quite different. For efficient management
and rapid development of the telecommunications services, the management
of the two services should be separate at all levels.  For telecommunications
services, the long-term objective should be the establishment of an inde-
pendent parastatal telecommunications corporation. However, because of the
administrative and other implications of such a major changeover from a
government department to a public sector corporation (e.g. revision staff
status, revision of financial arrangements with Government, rearrangement
of pensions, amendment to Telegraph Act), the changeover needs to be effected
in two steps, with the first step--establishment of a Telecommunications
Department (paragraph 4.04)--being implemented during the project period.
4.04      The managements of the postal and telecommunications services
should be separated and a separate Telecommunications Department established.



- 19 -
To be effective, the new department should be vested with adequate powers and
authority for operating as a financially viable and commercially oriented
entity within the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, and fully account-
able to the Government which would lay down policy guidelines for its manage-
ment. It will not be difficult to separate out the staff of the engineering,
traffic and overseas divisions which are even now distinct for the telecom-
munications services. However, the existing administrative, and finance
and accounts staff and some assets such as buildings currently common to
both services would need close attention when apportioning between the two
services. The Government appreciats the need and the urgency of this separa-
tion and does not anticipate any special difficulty in its implementation. In
order not to affect the promotion prospects of the postal staff currently
operating the telegraph service, some positions in the telegraph cadre in the
telecommunications branch will be initially reserved to be filled by postal
staff on temporary secondment but with a program of such reservation being
phased out in a few years. Also, at small stations where the traffic may not
justify establishment of a separate telegraph office, the telegraph service
will be operated by the postal branch on an "agency" basis through postal
staff trained in phonogram operation, morse signalling or teleprinter oper-
ation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will create, by December 31, 1981, a separate Telecommunications Department
with adequate powers, satisfactory to the Association, for effective and
efficient management, operation and development of telecommunications services.
4.05      In establishing the Telecommunications Department, measures should
be instituted to eliminate the current coordination difficulties between the
engineering, traffic and overseas divisions. The recruitment of the traffic
staff from the postal branch and their interchangeability with the postal
staff should be discontinued; instead, the traffic staff should be closely
integrated with the engineering staff. Unlike the present when, in most
areas, the postal staff untrained in telecommunications are responsible for
the management of telecommunciations services except engineering maintenance,
all aspects of telecommunications operations including commercial interface
with the public should be made the responsibility of personnel clearly iden-
tified as telecommunications staff to both the public and the management.
The day-to-day telecommunications operations and local planning should be
decentralized at exchange or regional level as appropriate, with the head-
quarters organization retaining the functions of laying down policy guide-
lines, national planning, budgeting and allocation of resources.
4.06      The overseas division currently operates as a semi-independent
entity within the PTD, publishes its own annual report and financial state-
ments (which are then consolidated with the statements for other PTD opera-
tions) and executes works in respect of international facilities without
coordinating them with the engineering division in charge of the domestic
facilities with which they are closely linked. This leads to inefficiency
and diseconomies. Except that the overseas division should continue to main-
tain separate accounts and prepare financial statements to meet the special
requirements of international telecommunications agreements and for exchange
of accounts with other countries and international agencies, all aspects of



- 20 -
international telecommunications services--planning, development, operations,
billing and revenues--should be fully integrated with those for the domestic
services.
4.07      The Government and PTD appreciate the present deficiencies and
the need for the reorganization and, based on recommendations by the Bank's
sector and project identification missions, have initiated action on these
items. During negotiations, the progress on reorganization was reviewed. As
recorded in the agreed minutes of the negotiations, the Government agreed to
complete the reorganization of the telecommunications branch (paragraphs 4.05
and 4.06) by June 30, 1981.
Fundamental Planning Unit
4.08      PTD's planning organization is weak.  In absence of an organization
to assess the long-term (10 to 20 years) telecommunications needs of the
country and consequent absence of long range plans, the development has been
piecemeal and haphazard. PTD, therefore, should establish a fundamental
planning unit to: assess the long-term needs and set sector development
objectives and priorities in consultation with other government agencies and
private national organizations; study the latest technology in telecommunica-
tions and its application to Sri Lanka; assess likely trends in development
and operating costs; based on these, determine least cost solutions for
meeting the development objectives; prepare broad short-term (three to five
years) plans; estimate the material, financial and manpower resources for each
plan; review in conjunction with the tariff committee the tariff level and
structure with regard to the need for generating adequate funds and for better
allocation of resources to meet the efficiency and equity goals of the Govern-
ment; propose changes in the organizational structure and functions within
PTD; consider the basis and justification of establishing domestic manufac-
ture, etc. The Fundamental Planning Unit should also in the near future
undertake an economic study of telecommunications in Sri Lanka. The unit
should comprise small group of engineers, financial analysts and economists.
PTD is capable of organizing the unit and, except for economists, staffing
it internally and managing the proposed functions. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will set up a Fundamental
Planning Unit within the proposed Telecommunications Department (paragraph
4.04) by December 31, 1982. The Association will assist the Government and
the management of the new Telecommunications Department in drawing up suitable
terms of reference for the unit.
Staff
4.09      As of June 30, 1979, the number of staff in PTD was 26,188 dis-
tributed as follows between the postal and telecommunications branches:



- 21 -
Division                    Postal      Telecommunications      Total
Postal                           16,191               -               16,191
Administration 1/                   232               155                387
Finance and Accounts 1/             538               359                897
Engineering                        -                5,660              5,660
Traffic                                             3,626              3,626
Overseas                            -                 605                605
TOTAL                            16,961            10,405             27,366
1/   The apportionment of the administration and the finance and accounts
staff shared between the postal and telecommunications branches is
approximate.
With about 80,400 telephones in service, the staff-telephone ratio for tele-
communications branch is about 129 staff per 1,000 telephones. This is very
high by world standard and high even compared to some developing countries.
The factors contributing to this high ratio are: (a) large number of small
manual exchanges which require minimum level of staffing irrespective of
number of connections at each exchange; (b) manual operation of a major
portion of the long distance trunk service; (c) manual transiting of all
telegraph traffic; (d) extensive highly fault-prone open-wire long distance
and local distribution networks; (e) inadequacy of vehicles and office
machines leading to maintenance, administration, finance, accounts and
billing works being unduly labor intensive. PTD has little difficulty in
recruiting staff of requisite quality and staff turnover is negligible. The
staff pay scales are reasonable and in line with other government agencies.
4.10      Increased productivity, economies of scale due to larger size
of unit installations, and more modern methods of construction and operation
will reduce future manpower requirements in PTD. Further, with the gradual
automation of the local and long distance services using sophisticated
electronic switching equipment and replacement of open-wire lines by modern
radio systems or cables, PTD will need fewer men but with specialized knowl-
edge and higher skills for telecommunications maintenance and operations.
Therefore, in order that future recruitment and training can be geared to the
new staff requirements and anticipated higher productivity, the present and
future structure of manpower in PTD and their skills in telecommunications
needs review. Accordingly, PTD had been requested to undertake a manpower
study to assess in detail its staff and training needs for its telecommuni-
cations operations for the next five years. During negotiations, the interim
report of the "Manpower Planning" study for the telecommunications branch
carried out by PTD with the assistance of an ITU expert was discussed. Based
on current findings and expectations, it was agreed that PTD could achieve
a reduction in the staff-telephone ratio of five percent per annum during
the project period through increased productivity, restricting new employment
to fewer people with higher skills to meet the demands of new sophisticated
technology, and normal attrition. While, in absolute terms, the staff in



- 22 -
the telecommunications branch will increase from about 10,400 in 1979 to
about 13,300 in 1984 to meet the requirements of 68% increase in network
capacity during the same period, staff per 1,000 telephones ratio will
redutce by about 29% from 129 in 1979 to about 100 in 1984.  The annual man-
power target and the staff-telephone ratio to be achieved by PTD under the
project have been prescribed as "Performance Indicators" for the project
(Annex 17).
Training and Consultancy
4.11      PTD's current training facilities established in 1973 with
UNDP/ITU assistance for training engineers and technicians are inadequate
and deficient in all respects. The accommodation is unsuitable and crowded,
the training aids and equipment and literature are limited and the quality of
instructors is poor. Due to slow pace of past development and consequent slow
recruitment, the effects of these inadequacies have not been significant. How-
ever, with the increasingly rapid development proposed under the 1980-84
program and employment of new technologies, the training facilities need to
be expanded and upgraded. In addition to training new engineers and techni-
cians, in-service training needs to be imparted to existing staff. With the
establishment of a separate telecommunications department (paragraph 4.04),
the training of telephone operators and telegraphists will also need to be
taken over from the Postal Branch currently responsible for their training.
Training courses in telecommunications management, finance and accounts also
need to be introduced. PTD recognizes these training needs and has started
construction of buildings for a new training center with a capacity of about
1,500 man-months (against 750 man-months at present). PTD has assessed the
cost of equipping the new training center at about US$850,000 and the cost
of 30 man-months of training experts at about US$150,000. PTD also needs 150
man-months of consultants' services in respect of (a) frequency monitoring
and management; (b) maritime telecommunications; (c) traffic engineering;
(d) telegraph switching; (e) redesign of Colombo local network based on
electronic digital technology; and (f) drafting technical specification for
digital switching. PTD has assessed the total costs of these consultants at
about US$750,000 on the basis of US$5,000 per man-month.
4.12      During negotiations, the Government informed that the UNDP/ITU
have agreed to provide US$500,000 to finance the cost of 30 man-months of
training experts for the training center, 20 man-months of training fellow-
ships to Sri Lanka staff and 50 man-months of consultants' services for items
(a) to (d) in above paragraph. The cost of 100 man-months of consultants'
services estimated at US$500,000 for remaining items (e) and (f) above will
be financed under the proposed IDA credit. To finance part costs of equip-
ping the training center and purchase of some badly needed office machines,
US$500,000 has been provided under the IDA credit; the balance costs of train-
ing center equipment will be financed by the Government through bilateral
sources.



- 23 -
AccountinR
4.13      PTD's cash accounting functions well and provides a reasonable
separation between postal and telecommunications services. Certain commer-
cial accounts are kept on a notional basis within PTD and year end adjust-
ments of the cash accounts are made to produce more commercially oriented
financial statements. However, to monitor PTD's financial performance ade-
quately, additional commercial accounts would have to be introduced (Annex
21). PTD's accounts are kept manually. The introduction of additional
accounting routines would call for a greater use of mechanical aids (e.g.,
calculators and accounting machines).
4.14      Additional accounting routines (Annex 21) as suggested by the
mission were discussed with PTD's financial management and with the Auditor
General. No objections were raised and PTD is expected to start introducing
these routines in 1980. Some steps in this direction (inventory of assets,
introduction of depreciation rates and collection of billing records) have
already been taken.
4.15      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, commencing
January 1, 1981, PTD will progressively introduce accounting routines satis-
factory to the Association and that such routines shall be reflected in PTD's
financial statements for fiscal year 1981 onwards so that PTD's financial
performance thereafter can be adequately monitored.
Audit
4.16      As a government department, PTD's accounts are by law audited by
the Auditor General, who has four accountants permanently assigned to this
task in addition to auxiliary staff and PTD's own internal audit department.
The Auditor General is responsible for the audit of commercially oriented
government corporations in addition to government departments and has a
staff experienced in audits of commercial accounts. These arrangements are
satisfactory.
4.17      PTD cannot close all its accounts until about four months after
the end of its fiscal year as certain accounts have to be reconciled with
treasury accounts, which are available only at about that time. It would
therefore be reasonable to require PTD to send to the Association its unaudited
accounts within eight months of the end of its fiscal year and corresponding
audit report two months later. This was discussed and agreed on with PTD's
financial management and the Auditor General.
4.18      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PTD will
provide to the Association financial statements for its telecommunications
operations within eight months of the end of its fiscal year and provide the
corresponding audit report within two months thereafter.



- 24 -
Billing and Collection
4.19      PTD billing for the greater Colombo area (about 65% of total number
of subscribers) is done in Colombo by the commercial section of the Traffic
Department. Billing for outstations is done by the main post office of the
district in which the exchange is located. Billing routines and reporting
requirements vary between greater Colombo and outstations. A unification of
procedures would be desirable. Furthermore, the telecommunications service
should handle its own billing except in cases where practical considerations
justify continuance of billing by postal staff.   This would simplify proced-
ures as the basic information for the billing (e.g., meter readings and long
distance tickets) are produced by the telecommunications service and the
action to be taken (e.g., disconnections and reconnections) are to be taken
by this service.
4.20      The fixed rental is billed annually in advance.  Other charges
are billed bi-monthly in the greater Colombo area and monthly in outstations.
It takes about one and a half months to produce the bills for the greater
Colombo area and about ten days for outstations. This is satisfactory con-
sidering that the billing process is done nearly entirely by hand. Office
machines (calculators, etc.) could help to reduce this time substantially
and would be necessary to absorb projected larger number of bills to be
processed towards the end of the project period.
4.21      If the subscriber does not pay his bill within a month after the
date of billing, the amount is included in the subsequent bill and the
subscriber is notified. The subscriber is disconnected if total accumulated
amounts are not paid before the third bill is sent out. Regarding government
subscribers, no standard procedures for disconnection exist. Subscribers in
outstations who make a guarantee deposit are not disconnected before the
total amount due exceeds the deposit.
4.22      Billed amounts are not routinely reported to the accounts depart-
ment, which only receives information on collected amounts. Payment for
certain government subscribers' bills is made directly to the treasury, which
informs PTD about amounts received. To enable PTD's Accounts Department to
adequately book the billing and accounts receivable, billed amounts should
routinely be informed. Steps are being taken in this direction (paragraph
4.15 and Annex 21).
4.23      Lacking exact information, the value of PTD's accounts receivable
for telecommunications services is estimated to equal about three months of
billing. This is acceptable considering PTD's current billing procedures.
With adequate mechanical aids, this time may be reduced by about half a month.
4.24      About 600 subscribers in the greater Colombo area have free service.
Members of the Parliament and others are billed and the amounts of free
service is booked notionally as operating cost. However, other subscribers
with free service (mainly PTD's service telephones) are not billed and the
value of this service is not shown in PTD's financial statements. To more



- 25 -
accurately show the total value of PTD' service and to enable a control of the
value of free services, all telephones should be billed and the value of free
service shown as an operating cost. The proposed new accounting routines
(Annex 21) cover this item.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Background
5.01      For more than three decades PTD has, in addition to cash accounting
as required by Government, maintained certain commercially oriented accounts
on: fixed assets; debt and debt service to Government for the financing of
these assets; and free services given to or received from other government
departments. The Government considers PTD as part of its operations, however,
and no similar commercial accounts are kept by the Treasury. The financial
analysis as presented below is based on PTD's cash and notional commercial
accounting, with certain adjustments deemed necessary for an adequate pre-
sentation (see financial statements at Annexes 22 to 24 and notes and assump-
tions on the financial statements at Annex 25). Figures may, therefore, not
be exact but should present fairly the financial position of PTD's telecom-
munications operations and provide an acceptable basis for evaluation of its
financial performance.
Past Financial Performance
5.02      A summary of notional income statements for fiscal years 1976-79
(Annex 22) for PTD's telecommunications operations is given below in SLRs.
million:
Revised
Actual                Budget
Years Ending December 31:          1976       1977      1978        1979
Operating revenues                157.9      197.7     223.1        270.5
Operating expenditures 1/         132.9      155.9     196.1        231.8
Operating income                   25.0      43.8       27.0         38.7
Operating ratio (%):
Historic cost basis             82        76         83           82
Revalued basis                  84        78         88           86
Rate of return (%):
Historic cost basis             21        27         16           18
Revalued basis                  14        23          9           10
1/   Including depreciation on revalued assets (paragraph 5.05).



- 26 -
Operating expenditures include payments to foreign telecommunications adminis-
trations for their participation in international calls. Due to the low
pricing for these calls (paragraph 3.09), PTD's operating ratio and rate of
return have been adversely affected. Even so, PTD's past financial perform-
ance hias been sat.bfactocy.
Present Financal Position
5.03      Notional balance sheets for fiscal years 1976-79 for PTD's tele-
communications operations are given in Annex 23. A summary of fiscal year
1979 in SLRs million is given below:
Years Ending December 31:                1979 1/       Percent
Assets
Net plant in service 2/                  421.6             60
Work in progress                         273.4             39
Net current assets                         4.9              1
TOTAL ASSETS                             699.9            100
Liabilities
Equity 2/                                253.2             36
Long-term debt 3/                        446.9             64
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        699.9            100
1/   Based on revised budget.
2/   Include revaluation adjustments of fixed assets (paragraph 5.05).
3/   See Annex 25, notes and assumptions on PTD's financial statements.
As records of PTD's receivables are not kept (paragraph 4.22) and current
liabilities are not booked adequately, no meaningful current ratio can be
given for 1979. On the whole, however, PTD's financial position appears to
be sound.
Valuation of Assets
5.04      PTD's records on fixed assets and their cost of acquisition are de-
tailed and contain information from the early thirties. Depreciation, however,
has been calculated on an annuity basis that may not properly reflect the
expected useful life of the assets. Furthermore, fully depreciated assets
that have been taken out of service still figure in PTD's books. 1/ Finally,
I/   This report assumes that 50% of asset acquired before 1955 have been
taken out of service.



- 27 -
no separate records are kept on work in progress. PTD is well aware of these
deficiencies and has initiated a study, which is expected to result in new
accounting procedures by end of 1980.
5.05      PTD has made no attempt to establish the effect of inflation on the
value of its fixed assets. An adequate classification of the assets and
appropriate indices for their revaluation are lacking. Therefore, for the
purposes of this report, PTD's fixed assets have been revalued up to 1979
according to an index arrived at by dividing the exchange rate between the
SL Rupee and the US dollar at the year of revaluation with the exchange rate
at the year of acquisition (over 80% of the total cost of PTD's fixed tele-
communications assets is for imported equipment), resulting in an average 44%
revaluation of PTD's fixed assets in operation as of December 31, 1979. This
revaluation (44%) may be on the low side considering higher dollar costs for
imported equipment, especially since 1972. On the other hand, a substantial
part of the equipment is obsolete and will be replaced under the proposed
project (e.g., obsolete, worn out exchanges by electronic types and open-wire
land lines by radio links). On the whole, in this case the exchange rate
approach appears reasonable. For financial projections, an annual revaluation
of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% from 1982 onwards has been assumed according
to the estimated average increase in cost of telecommunications plant and
equipment (Annex 25).
5.06      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PTD will:
(a) undertake and complete an inventory and classification of its fixed tele-
communications assets and propose to the Association by March 31, 1981, a
method for their revaluation; and (b) for the purpose of calculating the rate
of return, commencing with the financial statements for its telecommunications
operations for fiscal year 1981, review and establish the value of these
assets annually according to methods agreed on with the Association.
Financing Plan
5.07      The projected funds flow statement for PTD's telecommunications
operations for 1980-84 is given in Annex 24. A summary of PTD's requirements
for its telecommunications operations and the sources from which they would be
met is given below:



- 28 -
1980-84
SLRs.       US$        %
Requirements
Project                                       566.4       36.4       31
Other capital works                         1,092.6       70.0       60
Increase in working capital                   153.2        9.8        9
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                          1,812.2      116.2      100
Sources
Internal cash generation                    1,672.2      107.2       92
Less:  debt service                           715.3       45.8       39
Net internal cash generation                  956.9       61.4       53
Borrowing:  Proposed IDA-Credit               468.0       30.0       26
Other borrowing                  387.3       24.8       21
TOTAL SOURCES                               1,812.2      116.2      100
Of total requirement during the project period, PTD's net internal cash
generation (based on notional commercial accounting) is expected to contribute
53%, which is satisfactory. The proposed IDA credit will contribute 26% and
the remaining 21% will be financed by Government. As the debt service to
Government is purely notional (paragraph 5.01) PTD's telecommunications oper-
ations will have a positive fiscal impact on the Government.
Projected Financial Performance
5.08      Projections of PTD's (telecommunications operations) financial
statements for 1980-84 are given in Annexes 22 to 24. Notes and assumptions
on the statements are given in Annex 25. A summary is given below:
Years Ending December 31:               1980    1981    1982    1983   11984
Operating income (Rs. million)         108.9   169.1   219.7   291.5   363.1
Operating ratio (%) 1/                    73       69      67       65      64
Rate of return:
On historic cost (%)                    29      25       23       25      27
On revalued assets (%)                  20      18       17       18      19
Debt/equity ratio (%)                     66      67       59       52      43
Current ratio (times)                    2.1     2.2      2.4      2.7     3.2
Debt service coverage (times)            1.8     1.9      2.1      2.5     3.1
1/   Including depreciation on revalued assets.



- 29 -
An increase of international telephone and telex tariffs averaging 40% has
been assumed to be effective as from July 1980. No further tariff increase
is forecast for the project period.
5.09      At the end of 1984, PTD is expected to have a current ratio of 3.2,
a debt/equity ratio of 43%, an operating ratio of 64% and a rate of return
on revalued assets in operation of 19%. The projected rate of return over the
project period averaging about 18% on revalued assets is mainly due to the
current high proportion of business and government subscribers who will be
heavy users of the improved and expanded long distance, telex, and interna-
tional facilities provided under PTD's 1980-84 investment program. Under
subsequent investment programs with a higher proportion of investments in
local subscribers' equipment, however, the percentage annual increases in
traffic and revenues should moderate. Therefore, PTD should not reduce the
July 1980 tariff levels (after the proposed 40% increase of international
tariffs).
5.10      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PTD's telecommu-
nications tariffs shall not be reduced below the July 1980 levels and shall
be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of return on revalued
(paragraph 5.05) average net fixed telecommunications assets in operation of
(a) at least 15% for each of the fiscal years 1980 to 1984, and (b) such rate
of return as shall be agreed between the Government and the Assocation by
June 30, 1984, for the fiscal years 1985 onwards.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Government will raise, by September 30, 1980, the collection
rate for the international telephone and telex calls to the
level of the accounting rate (paragraph 3.09);
(b) the Government will create, by December 31, 1981, a separate
Telecommunications Department with adequate powers, satisfactory
to the Association, for efficient and effective management,
operation and development of telecommunications services (para-
graph 4.04);
(c) the Government will set up within the Telecommunications
Department a Fundamental Planning Unit by December 31, 1982
(paragraph 4.08);
(d) commencing Janaury 1, 1981, PTD will progressively introduce
new accounting routines satisfactory to the Association and
such routines shall be reflected in the financial statements
for the fiscal years 1981 onwards (paragraph 4.15);



- 30 -
(e) PTD will provide to the Association financial statements for
its telecommunications operations within eight months of the
closing of its fiscal year and the corresponding Audit Report
within two months thereafter (paragraph 4.18);
(f) PTD shall (i) complete by March 31, 1981, an inventory and
classification of its fixed telecommunications assets and
propose to the Association a method for their revaluation and
(ii) commencing with the financial statements for its tele-
communications operations for fiscal year 1981, for purpose
of calculating the rate of return, review and establish the
value of these assets annually according to methods agreed
with the Association (paragraph 5.06); and
(g) The Government will not reduce the telecommunications tar-
iffs below the July 1980 levels and will maintain them at
levels sufficient to achieve a rate of return on revalued
average net fixed telecommunications assets in operation
of (i) at least 15% for each of the fiscal years 1980 to
1984, and (ii) such rate as shall be agreed between the
Government and the Association by June 30, 1984, for the
fiscal years 1985 onwards (paragraph 5.10).
6.02      Subject to the above, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent under the normal terms
for such credits.



-o             0|  pcvWe>|                                                                       99                09  ONr:   9V|   H3    v3*Hw      =3s>w
o   t          999 *                             o                                                      w 999 00,9 -'99                          99
-              0        c                       99s                             09>       w      9           99999                     99      P            w     _     *v1_s     
99.         s      P      .9r09000vw 09 09 09   00     9-9-90000-00-99                                   00 0 0              0-0009090909'9099- 0wsooo              99rv v ww _
O >          gSro           0                                                           009w               99 c.0-9gP g-iSV             soc P  
09             09o00098.oo oo99   090090909                      0      n wga 00990000           99,99       -99-000099          00000'000900099                  99   990
,e  0           09 90 9       o0   90   90  0  9  9   9    0.00              9    0    0  0 9     0   9        0   9  9   0  .  9   -  0   9  0   9     0   0
09                0-9990090009 0rr                                                 00090-9FF                  00 0 0                    0                  09~r, , N~ N  0rrN   ~ N N,NSW W   0:  >
99  99   -<l                  9v~~-    -! _  _  oo   -w__ww    _0! D9PJ9>3WW !                                                                                               0
w9    0         09    0   0   90   _   0     0 9    0    o o     0    9 0    9     00    0   0   00     0   9   0-   0   0       _9 90 0 9     09   9  0 9  0     09     009      00ss  rg9__  wPP" Pwo
99  99             FS  .3- @9FF    W                                                                                        .                                9FF.F~FF   F  09090-9>SS~F-    S S  t
r99             -X PC  3->          %i             -      w    = < os S b si                    o W      e    -            0009 p      -     00os     0     -99  
00                                                                                                                                                               00-aoPp     _s   o_ M__   s
090w9o09F       00009009r9F.99                                  00F9F s  0r   . 0000o000  009? 00000009000900000090090                                     0    099 0WN ?   ? C n 
*o                                          .oSo!                                        5'.                                                                     Oo<- r0Dwt~grSt! osrt WtwwSWp!!-
o               0099 p          00o00   000    09    0                 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                       09000900090090090090900000909 ?                      9'   990 
0.             0.09000    0o 00 000    090900o2o                       0000009000S                            0090 S9            00099o009909900                                            9 ! 'op _ @ _ w _ _    
99              0t~                                                                                                                                                               99gScocw w  0    '0 o P o   an: s _ S , o o oo s o o  
C.DSoi    w-g w09      Dsi    wi._Sg.        _t  .8s_ri8rt 
09  0090909                 0909    00090           090                 0                 0 0        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z''~~~                      K~~
99  0090090  9-00090-90009    0  0  090000900009090090009090090000000090990000909    09                                       0900999                   09O
o>_o    _wo>s  W_  1._    _   s  _PrcoiD-  -  N  D  N  WPp9D                  _ws_  ___  -n   n  t                        s~~~~~~~~~09g9'  ;
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                                                       n
0~ ~      Co O           -0000oo.                        __o0          0,   0099909               .    000            .9   0099000999                       .
99                      -                                 -        ~     ~     ~~~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-    E  -   9                 9    90



W  r;    _         cH        o0       '    0 :tWY2        rA         vSC                        0     C
v ~     ~         ~         ~          0    0     0 .     0 0  .                 O n r | -    .........0...............  0      
0'  c~  -                            0                      -               -               0                  0
0                                                                      Ors__COC=oX--_  C
-      ~             00              -        0 - 0                 0       0       0 - -0                         o
n~~~~~~                                                                                           p
nOO_                                                                      ,,_N  



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Telephone Usage
Dispersion of Lines Between Businesses and Residences
Name of         Total                Business                            Residential                  Percentage of Total
Exchange        Lines   Govt. Offices   Others   Total   Govt. Bungalows   Others   Total   Business   Residential
Anuradhapura       246           29           144      173            25               48       73       70           30
Avissawella        181           54             83     137            12               32       44       76           24
Badulla           243            80             72     152             3               88       91       63           37
Batticaloa         218           85            44      129            18               71       89       59           41
Chilaw            102            38            40       78             6               18       24       76           24
Galle              856          244           316      560            50              246      296       65            35
Gampola            229           62           127      189             2               38       40       83           17
Hatton             359           68           262      330             9               20       29       92            8             1
Jaffna          1,098           680           188      868            80              150      230       79           21            w
Kandy           2,060           489         1,298   1,787             81              192      273       87           13            L
Kegalle           156            72             30     102            10               44       54       65           35
Kurunegala        623           124           194      318            33              272      305       51           49
Matara             551          175           283      458            18               75       93       83           17
Nawalapitiya       119           41             59     100             4               15       19       84           16
Negombo            686          118           432      550            55               81      136       80           20
Nuwara Eliya       347           71           106      177            15              155      170       51           49
Panadura           506           72           240      342            51              113      164       68           32
Puttalam            88           21             24      45            38                5       43       51           49
Ratnapura          390          109           143      352            10               28       38       90           10
Trincomalee        226           72            67      139            18               69       87       62           38
Vavuniya           146           59             73     132            13                1       14       90           10
Total/Average  9,430          2,963         4,175   7,118            551           1,761   2,312         75           25            X
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Telephone Subscribers by User Category
Business  Industries  Agricultural                 Other       Schools and              Doctors and                 Cinemias and       Clubs
Government   Offices  & Factories    Farm              Shops  Businesses        Colleges   Hotels    Nurses          Hospitals       Theaters   Unions, etc.   Restaurants  Residences
Amparsi            46           14           4                            5        -              2           2           1              1             2               3                 -            21
Balangoda           19            3          4               8          15         2              -           1           2              2             1               2                 -            26
Dambulla           28             7          -               1           2         -              -           3           1              1             1               -                 -             2
Deniyaga            20            8          -               8           4         -              I           -           -              1             -               1                 -             7
Hambantota        103           30           3               1          25         3              1           -           -              6             -               -                 -            28
Haputala            13          15           4              -            5         -              -           -           -              I                     -                         -             -
Horana              24            8          6               2           4         -              2           -                          I             -               1                 2
Kulipitiya          72          10           5              -            I         -              2           -           1              2             -               -                1              -
Marawila            19            4         12              4            5         4              -           1           4              3             1               1                 -             6
Point Pedro        16            2           1              -           40         -              -           -           9              2             2               7               18            88
Vavuniya            56          26           3              -           16         -             18           6           5              1             1              -                 -            23
Welimada            21          19           1              4            5         -              1           2           3              1             -                                I 1          11
Total           437          146          43             27          127        9              31          17         26             22              8             15                22           212
Percentage         38.3         12.8         3.8            2.4         11.1       0.8            2 .7        1.5         2.3            1.9           0.7            1.3               1.9          18.5



SRI LANIA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Dispersion of Workiog Lines Based pa Revneue
lienonry 1979)
NSne of Each-oge           Coloobo Mntropolica- Area                 Anoradhapurs                           Kagelle                           Po-ralun                            Ratnapur                          Total/Aneasge
No. of Working Lines                23,168                                387                                128                                 86                                  233                               24,002
Average Revenoes per                  340                                 187                                166                                 98                                  140                                  334
Lrn per Both (SL Ls)
Revenue per Line         Psrcentagr        Coouletive        Per-ennagee itio                                     Cola-ive          Peronotsge        Coleove           Percentage        Cunltievne        Percentage       tCumlativs
(SL Rn)                  of Total         Peroentat.         of Totel        P-eterLane         of TotaL         P-rcentaa          of Tota          Peroenteo.         of Total         P-rcent e          of Tota          Perrentane
Lion    Re-n-   Lire   Reve...  Lios    Rev-no    Lios.  R--oo    Line    Revenu    Line    Revenu    Lias    R-nn-    Lioe    Re-ron    Lane    Revenu    Line    Ren-m   Line    Rene-u   Lines   R-vn
Under 50                 1.3    20.5       1.3    20.5    18.8        3.9    18.8      3.9      11.6      2.3    11.6      2.3    25.6    11.4    25.6    11.4    15.5           4.6     15.5      4.6      1.9    20.2        1.9     20.2
50- 100                23.4      5.5    24.7    26.0    25.6    11.0    44.4    14.9    30.7    12.2    42.3    14.5    46.5    35.4    72.1    46.8    45.0                   25.1    60.5      29.7    23.8       5.7     25.7      25.9
100- 200                 6.6      1.8    31.3    27.8    32.2    27.6    76.6    42.5    36.0    27.0    78.3    41.5    23.1    30.1    95.2    76.9    27.0    25.3                    87.5     55.0      7.4      2.2     33.1     28.1
220-  300               25.1      3.7    56.4    31.5    11.9    17.6    88.5    60.1           10.9    13.7    89.2    55.2        1.2      2.6    96.4    79.5        7.3     11.8    94.8    66.8    24.6         3.9     57.7      32.0
300- 400                13.8    10.6    70.2    42.1         4.9    10.1    93.4      70.2      3.1      5.6    92.3    60.8        1.2      3.6    97.6    83.1        1.7      4.1     96.5     70.9     13.4    10.5       71.1    42.5
400- 500                10.2    10.4    80.4    52.5         2.1      5.3    95.5      75.5      2.3      5.6    94.6    66.4       1.2      5.7    98.8    88.8        0.9      2.6    97.4      73.5      9.9    10.3    81.0        52.8
500-  700               13.4    10.1    93.8    62.6         2.1      6.8    97.6    82.3        2.3     6.8    96.9      73.2      -        -       98.8    88.8       0.9      3.4    98.3      76.9     13.0    10.0    94.0       62.8
700-1,000                3.3      8.8    97.1    71.4        1.1      5.0    98.7    87.3       0.8      3.2    97.7    76.4        -        -       98.8    88.8       0.4      2.2    98.7      79.1      3.2      8.7     97.2     71.5         t
over 1,000               2.9    28.6   100.(   100.0         1.3    12.7   100.0   100.0        2.3    23.6   100.0   100.0         1.2    11.2    100.0   100.0        1.3    20.9   100.0   100.0         2.8    28.5    100.0   100.0



- 36 -
ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
(As of December 31, 1979)
A. Local Exchange Network
Colombo
Metropolitan       Rest of
Item                       Area           Sri Lanka       Total
Number of exchanges
Automatic                                 3              254          257
Manual                                 -                 212          212
Total                                 3               466          469
Equipped Capacity
Automatic                           29,220            39,263       68,483
Manual                                  -              1,503        1,503
Total                            29,220           40,766       69,986
Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)
Automatic                           26,137            26,360       52,497
Manual                                  -              1,120        1,120
Total                            26,137           27,480       53,617
Telephones                             39,500           40,900       80,400
B. Long-distance Transmission Systems
Route
Distance    Channels
Type of System               No of Systems        (Miles)      In Use
1,200-channel microwave                   2                110         660
300-channel microwave                  4                 108         343
300-channel coaxial cable              5                 105        419
24-channel UHF/VHF                   10                 663        144
Overhead and cable carrier               39              2,394         234
C. Trunk Switching Equipment
No. of                       Trunks
Type of Exchange                Exchanges        Capacity      Teminated
Trunk Automatic Exchange
Independent                            3               8,320      3,743
Combined with local                   13               1,500         729
Manual trunk exchange                    33                213         500
positions   (approx.)
D.  Long-distance Public Call Offices          1,702
E.  International Services                               No. of
Item                                          Circuits
Telephone service (10 routes)                              39
Telex service (12 routes)                                  70
International telephone exchange (capacity)                48
International telex exchange (capacity)                    96



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNIGATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Growth of Local .ehephono Network-
1971-90
Itea                    1971      1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984        1985      1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Population (Thousand62 _)
A. ot end of year                    12,680   12,861   13,091   13,284   13,514   13,730   13,940   14,184   14,432   14,684    14,941    15,202    15,468    15,738    16,013    16,293    16,578    16,868    17,163    17,463
In-r--ne over pre-noos year (-.7      1.41      1.35      1.79     1.47      1.73      1.60      1.53     1.75      1.75      1.75       1.75      1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75       1.75
Telephone Demand
As at end of year                    56,081   55,878   55,130   55,979   57,936   62,380   66,652   71,870   76,860   83,780    91,300    99,500   108,500   118,300   128,900   140,500   153,100   166,900   182,000   198,300
Increa-e over pre-io.s year (7.2      0.9      -0.4      -1.3       1.5      3.5       7.7       6.8      7.8       6.9       9.0        9.0       9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0
W-oking inees (DELs)
As at end of yer-                     37,749   381 33   39 604   41,537   43,033   44 425   45,322   49,414   53,600   56,800    62,500    71,450    83,405    95,400   102,300   115,5D0   128,200   143,600   162,300   186,600
In--ea e  vr        -unse  (4          1.5     62.1       2.8      4.9'      3.6       32        2.        .0       8.5       6.00      10.0       14.2       16.0       6.4       13.2       10.0       11.0       12.0       13.0       19.0
De-and not (%)2/                     67.3      69.0      71.8      74.2     74.3      71.2      68.0     68.8      69.7      67.8       68.5       71.8       76.9       76.4      76.4       82.2       83.7       86.0       89.2       94.1
Unsatisfied Demand-'
As at end of yner                     18,332   17,345   15,526   14,442   14,903   18,050   21,330   22,456   23,260   26,980    28,800            28,100    25,100    27,900    26,600    25,000    24,900    23,300    19,700    11,700
Increase over previous yesr (%)    -0.1        -5.7    -11.7      -7.5       3.2      21.1      18.2       1.1      2.7      16.0        6.7       -2.4     -10.7        11.2      -4.7       -6.0       -0.4       -6.4       13.5      -40.6
Exchange Capacity
As at end of year                    47,070   47,930   49,200   51,470   53,130   54,640   55,600   60,700   70,000   72,300   100,100   111,800   117,600   121,600   122,700   135,900   150,800   168,900   190,900   219,500
increase over pre>oos year (-.)       1.3       1.8       2.6      4.6       3.2       2.8       1.8      9.2      15.3       3.3      38.5        11.7        5.2        3.4       1.0       10.8       11.0       12.0       13.0       15.0
Exchange If"  7(%2)-                 80.2      80.4      80.5     80.7      81.0      81.3      81.5     81.7      82.0      78.6       62.5       62.7       68.4       74.3      83.4       85.0       85.0       85.0       85.0       85.0
Telephone Set.
As at end of year                    60,398   61,653   63.366   66,460   68,853   71,000   72,062   78,270   80,400   85,200    93,800   105,100    123,000   133,500   153,500   173,300   192,300   215,400   243,400   280000
In-rease over prev-ios year (%.       1.5       2.1       2.8      4.9       3.6       3.2       1.4      8.3      10.3      10.6       11.0      11.2        17.0        8.5       15.0      12.9       11.0       12.0       13.0       15.0
DELs per 100 Population
As at end of year                     0.30      0.30      0.30      0.31     0.32      0.32      0.33     0.35      0.37      0.39       0.42       0.46      0.52       0.57       0.64       0.71       0.77       0.85       0.95       1.07
Telephones per 100 Population
As at end nf year                     0.48      0.48      0.48      0.50     0.51      0.52      0.52     0.55      0.56      0.58       0.63      0.69       0.79       0.88       0.96       1.06       1.16       1.28       1.42       1.60
Years to Satisfy Denand5/            31.8      22.2      15.2       7.5     10.0      13.0      23.6      5.5       5.6       8.4        5.1        3.9       2.7        2.8        2.2        1.9        2.0        1.5        1.1        0.5
Protect Period                                                                                            _
1/ Figure.  for 1971 to 1978 ate antoala; figures for 1979 .n-wrde are forecast.
2/ Demand Met = (Working Lines -o- Total D-nced) a 100.
3/ Unsatiafied Demand = Total Demand - Working Lines.
4/  E..h.oge Fill = (Working Lines -a-  Exchange Capacity) a 100
S/  Years to satisfy dem-ad:  year.  it would take to olear unsatisfied d-and at the rate of ins-tll-tion of new DELs during the year.



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Summary of Program Costs and Sources of Financing
Costs                                             Sources of Financing (US$ Millions)
Sri
SL Rs      US$                        Japan                                                                   Lanka      To Be
Item                            Millions   Millions    IDA    OECF    Commodity   France   Netherlands   Sweden    ADB    Australia   Govt.    Arranged
1.  Ongoing Works                Local        149.60       9.59       -        -          -         -            -            -       -           -          9.59       -
Foreign      655.40      42.01       -     10.32      15.44       6.54        3.59         1.92    0.19         0.10       3.91        -
Total        805.00      51.60       -     10.32      15.44       6.54        3.59         1.92    0.19         0.10      13.50        -
2.  IDA Project                  Local          98.44      6.31       -        -         -          -            -           -        -           -         6.31        -
Foreign      46S.00      30.00    30.00      -          -          -            -           -        -           -
Total        566.44      36.31    30.00      -          -          -           -                                           6.31        -
3.  Other Works in               Local          42_96      2.75       -        -         -          -            _            _       _           _                     -
1980-84 Program              Foreign      194.60      12.47       -       -          -          -            _           _        _           _          -        12.47
Total        237.56      15.22       -       _          _          _                                -           -          2.75      12.47
4.  Preinvestment for Works    Local            10.00       0.65      -        _                                                                            0.65         -
to be Undertaken from        Foreign       40.00       2.57       -       -          -                                                                   -         2.57
1985 Onwards                 Total         50.00       3.22       -             -          -           -           -              -           -         0.65       2.57
5.  Total Program                Local        301.00      19.30       -        -         -          -            -           -        -           -        19.30        -
Foreign   1,358.00       87.05    30.00   10.32       15.44       6.54        3.59         1.92    0.19         0.10       3.91      15.04
Total      1,659.00    106.35    30.00   10.32        15.44       6.54        3.59         1.92    0.19         0.10      23.21      15.04



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Investment Program (1980-84)
(US$ Millions)
1980                    1981                     1982                     1983                     1984                TOTAL (1980-84)
Item                                  Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total
A. ONGOING WORKS
1. Colombo area - local                   0.48    7.63    8.11    -          -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -     0.48    7.63       8.11
2. Rest of Sri Lanka - local
and long distance                    0.87    3.27    4.14   2.15    9.29   11.44   0.19    2.34    2.53    -              -        -      -        -        -     3.21   14.90    18.11
3.  Indo-Sri Lanka microwave              0.13    0.63    0.76    -          -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -     0.13    0.63       0.76
4. Export promotion zone                   0.13    0.51    0.64    -         -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -     0.13    0.51       0.64
5. Cyclone reconstruction                  1.41    6.28    7.69    -         -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -      1.41    6.28      7.69
6. Administrative complex                  0.76    1.41    2.17   0.19    2.12    2.31    -           -        -      -        -        -      -        -        -     0.95    3.53       4.48
7. Training school                        0.58    0.10    0.68   0.37        -       0.37   0.20      -      0.20    -         -        -      -        -        -     1.15    0.10       1.25
8.  International services                0.19    3.76    3.95   0.06    1.22    1.28   0.13    0.81    0.94   0.13    0.82    0.95   0.13    0.79    0.92   0.64    7.40                 8.04
9. Miscellaneous minor works               0.42    1.03    1.45   0.29       -       0.29   0.26      -       0.26   0.26      -       0.26   0.26      -       0.26   1.49    1.03       2.52
10. TOTAL ONGOING WORKS                    4.97   24.62   29.59   3.06   12.63   15.69   0.78    3.15    3.93   0.39    0.82    1.21   0.39    0.79    1.18   9.59   42.01    51.60
B.  IDA PROJECT
I.  Local switching equipment             0.09      -       0.09   0.10    0.05    0.15   0.59    2.80    3.39   0.25         1.69    1.94    -        0.46    0.46   1.03    5.00        6.03
2. Cables and accessories                   -       -        -     0.20    0.20    0.40   0.97    2.33    3.30   0.50    2.47    2.97    -              -        -      1.67    5.00      6.67
3. Vehicles and cable equipment             -       -        -     0.01    0.01    0.02   0.08    0.35    0.43   0.06    0.64    0.70    -              -        -     0.15    1.00       1.15
4. Subscriber facilities                    -       -        -      0.02    0.01    0.03   0.17    0.28    0.45   0.10    0.12    0.22   0.03    0.09    0.12   0.32    0.50              0.82
5. Trunk switching equipment                -       -        -     0.02    0.05    0.07   0.09    0.16    0.25   0.05    0.79    0.84    -              -        -     0.16    1.00       1.16
6. ANI and AMA equipment and
bill prucessur                        -        _        -     0.01    0.02    0.03   0.01       1.15    1.16   0.01      1.16    1.17   0.01    0.17    0.18   0.04    2.50          2.54
7. Microwave systems                      0.02      -       0.02   0.03    0.06    0.09   0.21    0.58    0.79   0.10         2.06    2.16   0.02    0.30    0.32   0.38    3.00          3.38
8. UHF/VPF systems                        0.15      -       0.15   0.08    0.11    0.19   0.46    3.03    3.49   0.23    1.39    1.62   0.03    0.47    0.50   0.95    5.00               5.95
9. Air conditioning equipment               -       -        -      0.01    0.01    0.02   0.03    0.18    0.21   0.03    0.31    0.34    -             -        -      0.07    0.50      0.57
10. Standby generators                       -       -        -     0.01    0.01    0.02   0.03    0.18    0.21   0.03    0.31    0.34    -              -        -     0.07    0.50       0.57
11.  Training and consultants                -       _        -     0.01    0.02    0.03   0.03    0.29    0.32   0.03    0.64    0.67    -             0.05    0.05   0.07    1.00        1.07
12.  Estimated Base Costs                  0.26               _ 0.26   0.50                          15 1.0 5 2 .67 11.33   14.00   T  11.58   i2.97   0.09  1.54    1.63    4.91   25.00  29.91
Contingencies
13.  Physical                                -       -        -     0.01    0.40    0.41   0.05    0.08    0.13   0.03    0.01    0.04   0.01    0.01    0.02   0.10    0.50               0.60
14.  Price                                                    -     0.08    3.10    3.18   0.68    1.01    1.69   0.49    0.17    0.66   0.05    0.22    0.27   1.30    4.50               5.d8)
15. Total contingencies                      _       _        _     0.0-93,5          3      0.73    1.09    1.82   0.52    0.18    0.70   0.06    0.23    0.29   1.40    5.00             6.40
16. TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS          0.26      -       0.26   0.59    4.05    4.64   3.40   12.42   15.82   1.91   11.76   13.67   0.15    1.77    1.92   6.31   30.00    36.31
C. OTHER WORKS IN THE 1980-84 PROGRAM               -            -       -       -        -       -       -        -      1.50    2.00    3.50   1.25   10.47   11.72   2.75   12.47    15.22
D. PREINVESTMENT FOR WORKS TO BE
UNDERTAKEN AFTER 1984                                       -                               -        -                                       0.65    2.57    3.22   0.65    2.57         3.22
E.  TOTAL ESTIMATED PROGRAM COSTS              5.23   24.62   29.85   3.65   16.68   20.33   4.18   15.57   19.75   3.80   14.58   18.38   2.44   15.60   18.04  19.30   87.05   106.35



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Ongoing Works and Their Costs
Estimated Expenditure
During 1980-84            Anticipated
in US$ (SL Rs) Millions        Completion
Project                         Brief Details                      Local    Foreign   Total          Date
Colombo Area - II   Replacement of about 6,000 lines of worn-out    0.48           7.63       8.11       June 1980
local switching equipment and addition of         (7.49) (119.03)   (126.52)
about 22,200 lines in local network in
Colombo Telephone Area
Outside Colombo      Replacement of about 3,880 lines of worn-out    3.21    14.90           18.11      December 1982
Area - II            local switching equipment and addition of         (50.07) (232.45)  (282.52)
about 5,120 lines in local network in
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Jaffna, Kurunegala,
Ratnapura and Trincomalee and provision of
long distance facilities for introduction
of subscriber trunk dialing in these stations
Indo-Sri Lanka       Replacement of existing open-wire lines con-    0.13          0.63       0.76       June 1980
Microwave System    necting Colombo to Kurunegala                       (2.03)   (9.83)   (11.86)
Export Promotion    Provision of telephone and telex facilities          0.13      0.51       0.64      December 1980
Zone                 in Katunayake Investment Promotion Zone            (2.03)   (7.96)    (9.99)
Cyclone Recon-       Restoration, rehabilitation and expansion of    1.41          6.28       7.69     December 1980
struction            telecommunications facilities in Amparai,         (22.00)  (97.98)  (119.98)
Batticaloa, Kalmunai and Polonaruwa districts
including replacement of about 1,300 lines of
old switching equipment and addition of about
2,200 new lines
Administrative        Provision of telecommunications facilities          0.95      3.53       4.48     December 1980
Complex               in Kotte administrative and parliamentary         (14.82)  (55.07)   (69.89)
complex
Training School       Establishment of a new Telecommunications           1.15      0.10       1.25     December 1980
Training School                                  (17.94)   (1.56)   (19.50)
International         Expansion of satellite earth station and            0.64      7.40       8.04     December 1984
Services              international telephone and telex                  (9.98) (115.45)  (125.43)
exchanges
Miscellaneous                                                             1.49      1.03       2.52     December 1984
Minor Works                                                             (23.24)  (16.07)   (39.31)
Total Estimated Expenditure       9.59    42.01       51.60
(149.60) (55.40)  (805.00)



- 41 -
ANNEX 11
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Other Works in the 1980-84 Program
1.        The following works will be undertaken by PTD during the 1980-84
program period subject to availability of financing for their foreign costs:
A. Local Network: Expansion of local exchange equipment by about
7,000 lines, replacement of 6,000 lines of antiquated worn-out switching
equipment and installation of associated cable networks and subscriber
facilities.
B. Trunk Automatic Exchanges: Expansion of the trunk switching
equipment at four tertiary switching centers by 1,000 lines.
C. Transmission Systems: Installation of one microwave, 25 UHF,
VHF systems and five cable carrier systems to expand the long distance facil-
ities and provide access through long distance public call offices to about
150 rural communities now without service.
D. Telegraph Service: Provision of telegraph switching facilities
for automatic switching of telegraph traffic at about four transit centers.
E. Telex Service: Introduction of domestic telex service in
Sri Lanka.
F. Maritime Communications: Introduction of maritime communica-
tions with ships at sea.
2.        The local and foreign estimated costs of these works are as follows:
Baht (Millions)         US$ (Millions)
Local          42.96                    2.75
Foreign       194.60                  12.47
Total       237.56                  15.22



- 42 -
ANNEX 12
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Summary of Facilities to be Installed under the IDA Project
Item                                    Quantity
1. Local exchanges (number)
To be abolished                                                190
To be replaced                                                  81
New exchanges                                                    7
2. Exchange capacity (lines)
To be replaced                                               7,900
To be added                                                  9,300
Total Installation                                        17,200
3. Telephone cables (pair-kilometers)
To be replaced                                              41,600
To be added                                                 31,400
Total Installation                                        73,000
4.  Working lines - DELs (number)                                 16,200
5.  Telephone sets (number)                                       24,250
6.  Local public call offices - coin boxes (number)                   250
7.  (a)  Trunk automatic exchanges - expansion
Number of exchanges                                           8
Number of terminations to be added                          650
(b)  Trunk automatic exchanges - new
Number of exchanges                                           3
Capacity (terminations)                                     650
8. Manual trunk boards (number)
Replacements                                                    17
New                                                              3
9. Microwave radio systems
Systems to be upgraded
300 to 2,400 channels                                        1
1,200 to 2,400 channels                                        1
New systems
2,400 channel system                                           1
1,200 channel system                                           4
10. UHF radio systems
60-channel                                                       8
36-channel                                                      10
11. VHF radio systems
24-channel                                                      29
12-channel                                                      31
Others                                                          80
12.  Multiplex equipment (channel ends)                             5,250
13.  PCM (30-channel) for local cable network                            4
14.  Long distance public call offices                                 500
Capprox.)



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Physical Installations Under the Project
Table A: Summary of Local Network Expansion Under the Program and the Project
Capacity                                                            Total
DELs                                                              Additions
Item                 Telephones    1980       1981        1982      1983       1984      1980-84
Existing on January 1 of Year      Capacity     70,000    72,300    100,100    111,800   117,600          -
DELs         53,600    56,800      62,500     71,400    83,400
Telephones   80,400    85,200      93,800    105,100   123,000         -
Net Additions During Year Under
Ongoing Works                    Capacity      2,300    27,800       5,200        -         -        35,300
DELs          3,200      5,700      7,600       -          -       16,500
Telephones    4,800      8,600      9,350       -          -       22,750
IDA Project                      Capacity        -          -        5,500       3,800      -         9,300
DELs            -          -          700      10,300     5,200    16,200
Telephones      -          -        1,050     15,400      7,800    24,250
Other Works                      Capacity        -          -        1,000       2,000     4,000      7,000
DELs            -          -          600       1,700     1,800      4,100
Telephones      -          -          900      2,500      2,700      6,100
Total Program                    Capacity      2,300    27,800      11,700       5,800     4,000    51,600
DELs          3,200      5,700      8,900     12,000      7,000    36,800
Telephones    4,800      8,600     11,300     17,900    10,500    53,100
Existing on December 31 of Year   Capacity      72,300   100,100    111,800    117,600   121,600          -            
DELs         56,800    62,500      71,400      83,400    90,400        -
Telephones   85,200    93,800    105,100    123,000   133,500          _         0 w
. . .



Table B: Local Exchange Installations in Telephone Areas
Telephone Area             No. of Exchanges               Exchange Capacity
To Be     Additional        Total          Year of
Tertiary      Secondary       Existing   Proposed   Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura        23           6           288          812          1,100            1982
Jaffna             30           7           916        1,284          2,200            1982
Mannar             16           3           169          131            300            1983
Trincomalee         9           8           115          535            650            1982
Colombo         Avisawella         19           4           471          529          1,000            1982
Chilaw             15           3           429          571          1,000            1983
Gampha              7           2           179          121            300            1983
Negombo            11           3           268          332            600            1983
Galle           Galle              21           6           415          485             900           1982
Ratnapura          16           5           441          559          1,000            1982
Kandy           Badulla            19           7           640          710          1,350            1983
Bandarawela        10           5           737          763          1,500           1983
Kegalle            15           5           733          867          1,600           1983
Kurunegala         31          13           745          905          1,650           1983
Matale             17           4           182          168             350          1982
Nawalapitiya        5           2            88          112            200           1982
Nuwara Eliya       14           5         1,103          397          1,500           1983
Total          2781/          8         7,919       9,281          17,200
1/  Of the 278 exchanges, 144 small manual exchanges and 46 small rural automatic exchanges are
to be closed and their telephone areas merged with other adjacent exchanges.
o H
0



Table C: List of New Exchanges and Exchanges to be
Replaced, and Their Existing and
Pronosed CaDacities
Exchange Capacity
Sl.            Telephone Area                    Name of                To Be      Additional        Total         Year of
No.       Tertiary         Secondary              Exchange             Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
1      Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Galnewa                           New            100            100          1982
2                                      Kahatagasdigiliya                 44           156            200          1982
3                                      Kekirawa                          44           256            300          1982
4                                      Madawachchiya                     88           112            200          1982
5                                      Nochchiyagama                     18            82            100          1982
6                                      Tambuttegama                       8           192            200          1982
7-23                                   17 exchanges to be closed         86           -86            -            1982
Subtotal                       288          812         11,000
24      Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Chavakachcheri                    88           112            200          1982
25                                      Kilinochchi                      150           150            300          1982
26                                      Nelliadi                          44           456            500          1982
27                                      Pallai                            44            56            100          1982         1
28                                      Sithankerni                     New            500            500          1982         4
29                                      Tellippalai                     New            500            500           1982
30                                      Velanai                           21            79            100          1982
31-53                                   23 exchanges to be closed        569          -569             -
Subtotal                      916         1,284         22,000
54      Anuradhapura   Mannar           Madhu                             10             90            100          1983
55                                      Murunkan                          20            80             100         1983
56                                      Talaimannar                       21            79             100         1983
57-69                                   13 exchanges to be closed        118          -118            -            1983
Subtotal                       169           131            300
70      Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Gomarankadawella                  New             50              50          1982
71                                      Kantalai                          21            79             100          1982
72                                      Kiliveddi                       New             50              50          1982      1 t
73                                      Kinniya                           10            90             100          1982     oo
74                                      Kuchaveli                          9            91             100          1982      0
o w
I-th
I-'
0)



Exchange Capacity
S1.             Telephone Area                     Name of                To Be      Additional         Total         Year of
No.       Tertiary          Secondary              Exchange              Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
75                                       Mutur                              20             80            100          1982
76                                       Nilaweli                            6             94            100          1982
77                                       Tambalakaman                        5             45             50          1982
78                                       1 exchange to be closed            44           -44             -            1982
Subtotal                       115            535            650
Total Anuradhapura Tertiary Area:           1,488         2,762          4,250
79      Colombo          Avissawella    Bulathkohupitiya                    44            156            200          1983
80                                       Eheliyagoda                        44            256            300          1983
81                                       Kitulgala                          44            156            200          1983
82                                       Kosgama                            21            279            300          1983
83-97                                    15 exchanges to be closed         318          -318             -            1983
Subtotal                       471            529          1,000
98                       Chilaw          Bingiriya                          10             90            100          1983
99                                       Marawilla                          88            212            300          1983
100                                       Puttalam                          200            400            600          1983
101-112                                   12 exchanges to be closed         131          -131             -            1983
Subtotal                       429            571          1,000
113                       Gampha          Mirigama                           44            156            200           1983
114                                       Veliveriya                         44             56            100          1983
115-119                                   5 exchanges to be closed           91            -91            -            1983
Subtotal                       179            121            300
120                       Negombo         Dunagaha                           44            156            200          1983
121                                       Kochchikade                        44            156            200          1983
122                                       Lunuwila                           50            150            200          1983
123-130                                   8 exchanges to be closed          130          -130             -            1983
Subtotal                       268            332            600        
Total Colombo Tertiary Area:                              1,553
0



Exchange Capacity
SI.             Telephone Area                    Name of                To Be      Additional         Total         Year of
No.       Tertiary          Secondary             Exchange              Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
131      Galle           Galle            Baddegama                         44           156             200          1983
132                                       Elpitiya                          88           112             200          1983
133                                       Habaraduwa                        21           179             200          1983
134                                       Hikkaduwa                         44             56            100          1983
135                                       Kosgama                           21             79            100          1983
136                                       Nakiyadeniya                      44             56            100          1983
137-151                                   15 exchanges to be closed        153          -153             -            1983
Subtotal                       415           485             900
152                      Ratnapura        Balangoda                         88           212             300          1982
153                                       Godakawela                        44             56            100          1982
154                                       Kahawatte                         44           156             200          1982
155                                       Pelmadulla                        44            156            200          1982
156                                       Rakwana                           44            156            200          1982
157-167                                   11 exchanges to be closed        177          -177             -            1982
Subtotal                       441           559          1,000
Total Galle Tertiary Area:                   856         1,044           1,900
168      Kandy           Badulla          Bibile                            44             56            100          1982
169                                       Kandaketiya                     New             100            100          1982
170                                       Mahiyangana                     200             100            300          1982
171                                       Moneragala                      100             200            300          1982
172                                       Padiyatalwa                       9              41             50          1982
173                                       Passara                         200             100            300          1982
174                                       Wellawaya                        20             180            200          1982
175-186                                   12 exchanges to be closed        67            -67             -            1982
Subtotal                      640            710          1,350
187                      Bandarewala    Ampitikanda                        44              56            100          1982
188                                       Bandarewala                     375             425            800          1982
189                                       Ella                             21              79            100          1982
190                                       Haputale                         88             212            300          1982      1 
191                                       Welimada                        132              68            200          1982      0 
192-196                                   5 exchanges to be closed         77            -77             -            1982      X 
Subtotal                      737            763          1,500                       1 -
o



Exchange Capacity
Si.             Telephone Area                    Name of               To Be      Additional         Total         Year of
No.       Tertiary          Secondary             Exchange             Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
197                      Kegalle         Aranayake                          21            79            100          1982
198                                      Kegalle                           399           401            800          1982
199                                      Mawanella                          88           212            300          1982
200                                      Rambukkana                         88           112            200          1982
201                                      Warakapola                         44           156            200          1982
202-211                                  10 exchanges to be closed          93           -93            -            1982
Subtotal                       733           867          1,600
212                      Kurunegala      Calgamuwa                          22            78            100          1982
213                                      Giriulla                           44           256            300          1982
214                                      Hettipola                           9            41             50          1982
215                                      Ibbagamuwa                         18            82            100          1982
216                                      Kulyapitiya                        38           162            200          1982
217                                      Maho                               33            67            100          1982
218                                      Narammala                          44            56            100          1982
219                                      Nikadalupota                        9            41             50          1982
220                                      Nikeweratiya                       21            79            100          1982         1
221                                      Pannala                            17            33            -50          1982
222                                      Polgahwela                         63           237            300          1982        c
223                                      Rambodegala                        18            82            100          1982
224                                      Wariyapola                         21            79            100          1982
225-242                                  18 exchanges to be closed         388         -388             -            1982
Subtotal                       745           905          1,650
243                      Matale          Galewela                           44             6             50          1983
244                                      Naula                              20            80            100          1983
245                                      Rattota                            44            56            100          1983
246                                      Wilgamuwa                       New             100            100          1983
247-259                                  13 exchanges to be closed          74          -74             -            1983
Subtotal                       182           168            350
260                      Nawaeapitiya   Dolosbage                           21            79            100          1983
261                                      Kotmale                            44            56            100          1983        x
262-264                                  3 exchanges to be closed           23          -23             -            1983      a "
Subtotal                        88           112            200
I-
l~~~



Exchange Capacity
Si.            Telephone Area                   Name of                To Be     Additional        Total         Year of
No.       Tertiary         Secondary             Exchange             Replaced    Capacity    Installation   Installation
265                     Nuwara Eliya   Halgranoya                         44          156            200          1982
266                                     Maturatta                         44           56            100          1982
267                                     Nuwara Eliya                     800          200          1,000          1982
268                                     Ramboda                           21           79            100          1982
269                                     Udapussallawa                     44           56            100          1982
270-278                                 9 exchanges to be closed         150         -150            -            1982
Subtotal                    1,103           397         1,500
Total Kandy Tertiary Area:               43228         3,922          8,150
Grand Total Sri Lanka:                7,919         9,281         17,200
Oal
. 0
_C.
*
o L.
Fbi
0



- 50 -
ANNEX 13
Page 8 of 10
Table D: Microwave Radio Systems
Size of System                   No. of
Exist lnk_ ~   __  Proposed              Channel
No. oi      Total    No. of        Total       Ends
Radio     System      Radio      System       to be       Year of
Route          Bearers   Capacity   Bearers   Capacity   Installed   Installation
1.  Galle-Enesalwatte    1 + 1        300        2 + 1       2,400       540           1982
2.  Colombo-Benachi       1 + 1    1,200         2 + 1       2,400       600            1982
Hill-Primrose Hill
3.  Colombo-Chilaw-         -          -         2 + 1       2,400      1580            1983
Puttalam-
Anuradhapura
4.  Kirimatiyakanda-        -          -         1 + 1       1,200       360            1983
Gunner's Quoin-
Batticacola
5.  Gunner's Quoin-         -          -         1 + 1       1,200       120           1983
Trincomalee
6.  Kegalle-                -          -         1 + 1       1,200       120           1982
Kirimatiyakanda
7.  Namunukula-             -          -         1 + 1       1,200       120           1982
Bandarawela
NOTE: Coaxial cables will be installed between (a) Gunner's Quoin and Pollonaruwa and
(b) Primrose Hill and Kandy to extend the circuits from the microwave systems
to the main exchanges at Kandy and Pollonaruwa.
Table E: Long Distance Open Wire Routes to be Replaced
Route            Pair-kms
Distance            to be             Year of
Name of Route                (kms)             Replaced           Recovery
Colombo-Kegalle                  90                270              1983
Negambo-Chilaw                   50                100              1983
Chilaw-Puttalam                  50                100              1983
Nuwara Eliya-                    60                 60              1983
Bandarawela
Miscellaneous                 6,700             13,400              1983
junctions to
RAXs



- 51 -
ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 10
Table F: UHF/VHF Systems
Channel Ends
Telephone Area                                          to be         Year of
Tertiary        Secondary              Route                Installed   Installation
I. 60-channel UHF Systems
1.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Nelliadi                  72           1982
2.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Sittankerni               72           1982
3.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Tellipalai                72           1982
4.  Colombo         Chilaw          Chilaw-Puttalam                  72           1983
5.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Balangoda              48           1982
6.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Kahawatte              48           1982
7.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Pelmadulla             48           1982
8.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Rakwona                48           1982
II.  36-channel UHF Systems
1.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura-Kakiwara              48           1982
2.  Anuradhapura   Mannar           Mannar-Talaimannar               28           1983
3.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Charakachcheri            32           1982
4.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Kilinochchi               48           1982
5.  Colombo         Gampha          Gampha-Mirigama                  48           1983
6.  Colombo         Negombo         Negombo-Dunagha                  48           1983
7.  Galle           Galle           Galle-Elpitiya                   48           1983
8.  Galle           Galle           Galle-Badegama                   48           1983
9.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Mahiyangana              48           1983
10.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Moneragala               48           1983
III.  24-channel VHF Systems
1.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura-Kahatagag-             6           1983
digiliya
2.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Kekirawa-Galnewa                   10           1983
3.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Migawella-Thumbuttigama             6           1983
4.  Anuradhapura   Jaffna           Jaffna-Pillai                    16           1983
5.  Anuradhapura   Mannar           Mannar-Madhu                     12           1983
6.  Anuradhapura   Mannar           Mannar-Vidataltiva               12           1983
7.  Anuradhapura   Mannar           Marunkan-Chilaraturai            12           1983
8.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Kantalai               24           1982
9.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Kiniya                 24           1982
10.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Muthur                 24           1982
11.  Galle           Galle           Galle-Kosgoda                    12           1983
12.  Galle           Galle           Galle-Vdugama                    12           1983
13.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Godakawala             12           1983
14.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Kiriella               12           1983
15.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Nivitigala             12           1983
16.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Bibile                   12           1983
17.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Ettampitiya               6           1983
18.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Kandaketiya              12           1983
19.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Lunugala                 12           1983
20.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Wellawaya                18           1983



- 52 -
ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 10
Channel Ends
Telephone Area                                          to be         Year of
Tertiary        Secondary              Route                Installed   Installation
21.  Kandy           Bandarawala    Bandarawala-Ampitikanda           28           1983
22.  Kandy           Bandarawala    Bandarawala-Ella                  28           1983
23.  Kandy           Kegalle         Kegalle-Aranayake                24           1983
24.  Kandy           Kegalle         Kegalle-Rambukkana               36           1983
25.  Kandy           Kurunegala      Kurunegala-Kuliyapitiya          16           1983
26.  Kandy           Nawalapitiya   Nawalapitiya-Dolosbage            24           1983
27.  Kandy           Nawalapitiya   Nawalapitiya-Kotmale              24           1983
28.  Kandy           Nuwara Eliya   Nuwara Eliya-Maturata             24           1983
29.  Kandy           Nuwara Eliya   Nuwara Eliya-Udapussallawa        24           1983
IV.  12-channel VHF Systems
1.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura-Galenbin-              6           1983
dunawewa
2.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Kahategasdigipiya-                  6           1983
Horopotana
3.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Medawachchiya-Kebitigollewa         6           1983
4.  Anuradhapura   Anuradhapura   Tambuttegama-Eppawela               6           1983
5.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Gomerankadawela    12               1982
6.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Killiveddi             12           1982
7.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Kuchchaveli            12           1982
8.  Anuradhapura   Trincomalee    Trincomalee-Pulumoddai             12           1982
9.  Colombo         Chilaw          Chilaw-Mundel                     6           1983
10.  Colombo         Chilaw          Puttalam-Kalpitiya                6           1983
11.  Colombo         Chilaw          Puttalam-Manpuri                  6           1983
12.  Colombo         Negombo         Negombo-Badalagama                6           1983
13.  Colombo         Negombo         Negombo-Sandalanka                6           1983
14.  Galle           Galle           Calle-Imaduwa                     6           1983
15.  Galle           Galle           Galle-Talgaswela                  6           1983
16.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Kalawara                6           1983
17.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Kuruwita                6           1983
18.  Galle           Ratnapura       Ratnapura-Kolonne                 6           1983
19.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Migahakiula              12           1983
20.  Kandy           Badulla         Badulla-Padiyatalawa              6           1983
21.  Kandy           Badulla         Buttala-Monoragala                6           1983
22.  Kandy           Kegalle         Kegalle-Galapitimada             12           1983
23.  Kandy           Kegalle         Kegalle-Kotiyakumbara            12           1983
24.  Kandy           Kegalle         Kegalle-Udugoda                  12           1983
25.  Kandy           Kurunegala      Kurunegala-Galgamuwa              8           1983
26.  Kandy           Kurunegala      Kurunegala-Hettipola              4           1983
27.  Kandy           Kurunegala      Kurunegala-Maho                  12           1983
28.  Kandy           Kurunegala      Kurunegala-Nikiweratiya          12           1983
29.  Kandy           Matale          Matale-Welgamuwa                  6           1983
30.  Kandy           Matale          Naula-Elahara                     6           1983
31.  Kandy           Nuwara Eliya   Halgramaya-Watumulla               6           1983
V.  Multi-access VHF Systems of Different Sizes - 80 (approx.)                     1984



- 53 -
ANNEX 14
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Contingency Provisions in Project Cost Estimates
A.  Basis of Contingency Provisions
Physical Contingencies are calculated at 2% per annum of
year-by-year local and foreign base costs.
Price Contingencies are calculated by applying the following
increases on the estimated costs of contracts to be awarded
in each year based on early 1980 prices plus the physical
contingencies for that year:
Year      Local and Foreign
1980             10.5%
1981              9.0%
1982              8.0%
1983              7.0%
1984              7.0%
B. Calculation of Contingencies (US$ Millions)
Local         Foreign
Base cost                             4.91           25.00
Physical contingency                  0.10            0.50
Base cost plus physical
contingency                          5.01           25.50
Price contingency                     1.30            4.50
Total contingency                     1.40            5.00
Total cost                            6.31           30.00
C. Total Contingency Provisions (%)
Local        Foreign
Physical (percent of base cost)       2.0             2.0
Price (percent of base cost plus   25.9
physical contingency)               28.5            17.6
Total (percent of base cost)                       20.0



- 54 -
ANNEX 15
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR               1980               1981               1982              1983               1984
ITEM
QUARTER         1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Land
LAND            Acquisition          -   - r         1                                 _
AND              Building
BUILDINGS         Construction     - - - m - - - -                           - - -
Procurement                                     _   =    =   =
LOCAL
SWITCHING          Delivery
EQUIPMENT          Installation
Procurement    _
TE LEPHONE         Delivery
CABLES
Construction                            -    -    -                     m    -
Procurement    _
SUBSCRIBER         Delivery
FACILITIES
Insta llation                                        _   _
Procurement
TRUNK
SWITCHING          Delivery                      _                      _
EQUIPMENT          Installation
UHFICR AV F       Procurement    _
MICROWAVE    ~Delivery
SYSTEMS
Installation
Procurement                        _   _ -       _   _
UHF/VH-F          Dlvr
SYSTEMS           Dlvr                                                           -       -
Installation-                                                               - -       - - -
Procurement
RURAL
PUBLIC           Delivery
CALL OFFICES        Installation
NOTES:
PROCUREMENT - Period includes preparation of engineering details, technical specifications and bid documents,
issue of bid invitation, submission of bids by suppliers and evaluation of bids, and ends with
signing of contract.
DELIVERY        - Period includes manufacture and delivery to site.
INSTALLATION - Period commences with start of installation of the first exchange, cables, PCO, etc., and
ends with commissioning into service of the last item.
World Bank -21161



- 55 -
ANNEX 16
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Schedule of Disbursements-
Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                      at End of Semester
and Semester                                            (US$ Thousands)
1981
June 30, 1981                                                1,000
December 31, 1981                                            4,000
1982
June 30, 1982                                               10,000
December 31, 1982                                           16,000
1983
June 30, 1983                                               21,000
December 31, 1983                                           27,000
1984
June 30, 1984                                               28,000
December 31, 1984                                           29,000
1985
June 30, 1985                                               30,000
1/ Based on Bank approval of IDA credit in May/June 1980.



- 56 -
ANNEX 17
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Performance Indicators
A set of indicators which would assist in monitoring PTD's perform-
ance during the project period are set out below. PTD will be asked to report
on the actual as well as projected/budgeted achievements related to the per-
formance indicators.
Year Ending December 31
Item            1980       1981      1982       1983      1984
1.  Exchange capacity at      72,300   100,100   111,800   117,600   121,600
end of year
2.  Direct exchange lines      3,200     5,700      8,900    12,000      7,000
connected during year
3.  Number of staff           10,500    11,200    11,700    12,900    13,500
4.  Staff per 1,000              123        117       111        105       100
telephones
5.  Gross revenue              403.3     538.6      664.3     822.9      995.2
(SL Rs millions)
6. Rate of return on:
- historic cost  (%)        29        25         23         25        27
- revalued basis (X)        20        18         17        18         19
7. Operating ratio:
- historic cost  (%)        69        65         63        60         59
- revalued basis (%)        73        69         67        65         64



- 57 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Principal Telecommunications Tariffs
(As from March 1, 1980)
1. Local Charges
Connection Fees:
Central Colombo STD exchanges: SL Rs 400.00
Other exchanges: estimated cost less SL Rs 600.00, minimum SL Rs 400.00
Unit Call Charge: SL Rs 0.50, (SL Rs 80 from call office)
Annual Rental:
Business and commercialized Government: SL Rs 600.00
Private and other Government subscribers: SL Rs 250.00
2. Long Distance Charges
(a) Manual exchanges, operator connected calls:
Charge per 3 minutes
Distance                            or fraction
Within the same group
switching center                         SL Rs 1.20
Less than 40 miles                         SL Rs 1.50
Between 40 and 110 miles                   SL Rs 3.00
Over 110 miles                             SL Rs 5.00
Above charges are standard rates.  Between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. the fees are
50% of the standard rate (cheap rates).
(b) Automatic exchanges, "operator connected STD calls":
First 3 minutes   Additional 3 minutes
Distance                 or fraction           or fraction
Within the group switching area       SL Rs  1.90           SL Rs 0.90
Less than 20 miles                    SL Rs  2.80           SL Rs 1.80
Between 20 and 50 miles               SL Rs  4.00           SL Rs 3.00
Between 50 and 70 miles               SL Rs  6.00           SL Rs 5.00
Between 70 and 120 miles              SL Rs  7.00           SL Rs 6.00
Over 120 miles                        SL Rs 10.00           SL Rs 9.00
Cheap rates exist for calls outside the same switching center.  The discount
on standard rates increases with distance: from less than 20 miles, about
10% discount, to more than 120 miles, about 45% discount.



-- 58 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2
(c)  Automatic exchanges, STD calls:
Charge for a
Distance               Pulse Rate    3-minute call
Less than 29 miles           50 seconds       SL Rs 1.80
Between 20 and 50 miles    30 seconds         SL Rs 3.00
Between 50 and 70 miles    18 seconds         SL Rs 5.00
Between 70 and 120 miles   15 seconds         SL Rs 6.00
Over 120 miles               10 seconds       SL Rs 9.00
Cheap rates exist for all distances:  50% discount on the standard rate.
3. International Calls
First 3 minutes
or fraction          Each additional minute
Collection   Accounting   Collection   Accounting
Destination                 Rate         Ratel/         Rate         RateL/
India                    SL Rs  84    SL Rs  45       SL Rs 28      SL Rs 15
Japan                    SL Rs  99    SL Rs 218       SL Rs 33      SL Rs 73
Kuwait                   SL Rs 114       N.A.         SL Rs 38        N.A.
USA                      SL Rs 114    SL Rs 143       SL Rs 38      SL Rs 48
UK person to person      SL Rs 125       N.A.         SL Rs 25        N.A.
station to station   SL Rs  75    SL Rs 105        SL Rs 25      SL Rs 35
4. Telex
(a) Annual rental: SL Rs 16,000
(b)  Connection fees:
Central Colombo, SL Rs 300 plus SL Rs 50 for each 1/4 mile
over 1/2 mile from switching center;
Other areas, SL Rs 1,000 per mile of radial distance
between exchanges.
(c)  Installation charge:  SL Rs 400.
(d)  Call charges (operator assisted calls):
Per minute              1/
Collection Rate      Accounting Rate-
India                    24                    35
Japan                    28                    77
USA                      32                    48
United Kingdom           28                    26
1/ The accounting rates (the rates PTD's payments of participation to
foreign telecommunications administrations are based on) are given only
to indicate the need for a tariff revision. The comparison may not be
exact due to recent changes in currency exchange parities, but should
provide a reasonable indicator.



- 59 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DtPARTMENT (PTD)
Rate of Return on Investment Program
1.        PTD's 1980-84 investment program includes the project, ongoing
and other works and preinvestments for subsequent investment program
(1985 and onwards). The close relationship between the project and
ongoing and other works makes any attempt to separation very arbitrary as
regards to incremental costs and revenues. The rate of return calculated
in the following, therefore, refers to the whole of PTD's 1980-84 invest-
ment program (excluding only preinvestments for subsequent programs:
SL Rs 50.0 million).
2.        For the rate of return calculations, projected nominal values of
all incremental cost and revenue streams have been deflated by an accumu-
lative 21% in 1980, 15% in 1981, 12% in 1982 and 10% per year as from 1983
to reflect constant values at 1979 purchasing power.
3.        The benefit period extends from 1980 to 2004, when on average
the equipment provided under the program is expected to have substantially
completed its useful life.
4.        As from 1986, operating costs and revenues related to the program
are assumed to remain constant in real terms. Incremental revenues are
based on expected additional telephone and telex subscribers and traffic
brought about by the program. PTD's telecommunications facilities are
currently so congested that no significant traffic increase can be handled
without programed investments. The revenue forecasts assume that the sub-
scribers willingly pay projected increase of international tariffs as from
July 1980. Operating costs are based on additional assets and traffic
generated under the program, excluding depreciation and interest.
5.        No residual value of programed investments have been taken into
account as to the 1979 discounted real value of these would be insignificant.
6.        A  summary of the cost and benefit streams at 1979 purchasing
power is given below in Rs millions:



- 60 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
Capital              Operating            Net
Year      Deflator      Expenditures       Costs     Revenues      Benefits
1979        1.00           273.4              -            _       (273.4)
1980          .83          386.4             6.0          2.7      (389.7)
1981          .72          228.3            13.1        85.4       (156.0)
1982          .64          197.2            23.9       156.4       ( 64.7)
1983          .58          166.3            40.4       233.7         27.0
1984          .53          122.7            61.0       304.9        121.2
1985          .48              -            61.0       317.4        256.4
1986-04         .44                          261.0        320.0       259.0
The net benefit stream above results in a rate of return of 16.6%.
7.        A sensitivity analysis was performed with the following results:
(a)  10% increase in capital expenditures           15.1%
(b)  10% increase in operating costs                16.2%
(c)  10% decrease in revenues                       14.5%
(d)  Combination of (a), (b) and (c) above          17.7%
8.        The economic rate of return should be substantially higher than
the above 16.6% due to the following:
(a) no attempt has been made to estimate the consumer surplus.
It is known, however, that an unauthorized market for tele-
phone lines in central Colombo exists and the quality of
service is expected to improve considerably due to the
program;
(b)  no increase in revenues due to the 1980-84 program have been
considered after 1986. When additional facilities are
installed under subsequent programs, however, traffic and
utilization of facilities installed under the 1980-84 program
will increase; and
(c) some of the equipment installed under the 1980-84 program has
ample spare capacity or could handle a substantially higher
traffic volume with low marginal investments (e.g., long
distance network). The full capital cost has been included
in above rate of return calculations (compare (b) above).
9.        Currently connected subscribers and potential subscribers on
waiting lists are showing a willingness to pay current tariffs. Assuming
subscribers willingly pay higher tariff- for international telephone and
telex services as from July 1980 and that currently connected and new sub-
scribers are willing to pay 1979 tariffs in real terms, the economic rate
of return would be 33.1%. These assumptions are reasonable considering
the long waiting lists and expected improvement in service due to the pro-
gram.



- 61 -                                                         ANEX 20
SR I LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister                                        Ministry of
Posts and Telecommuni-                                  Lands and
cations                                     Land Development
Deputy Minister               Ministry Of
Posts and Telecom-_             Finance and
I~munications                                 Planning
Secretary                                         Ministry
Public                 Auditor                    Ministry of                             _             of
Accounts                General              Posts and Telecommuni -                                    Public
cations                                       Administration
Postmaster-General                                   Ministry of
and                                        Local Government
Director of                                    Housing and Con-
Telecommunications                                     struction
_   Telecommunica-  _                    _          Overseas          _                         l   l       Finance and
|   Postal                tions                       Trafc                   Telecommunica-               Administration                 Accounts
Enieering                                                tions                                                  Acut
:  g  Other Regions   |  lTelecommunications              Tafic and
, Development                       5eua                   Amnisrto
fl Rehabilitation                  Cmeca
L|  Accounts                                                                                                 n  -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol   Ba k -    16



- 62 -
ANNEX 21
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Suggested Commercial Accounting Routines to
Complement PTD's Cash Accounting
1.        To better monitor PTD's telecommunications operations financial
performance on a commercial basis and to provide adequate information for
pricing decisions, the following accounting procedures should be introduced,
on a notional basis, to complement PTD's current cash accounting:
(a) introduction of adequate depreciation rates and adjustment
of the net value of fixed assets in operation accordingly;
(b) make an inventory and establish the value of fixed assets
in operation and revalue the assets if necessary;
(c) review work order procedures, separate work in progress from
assets in operation and show WIP separately in PTD's financial
statements;
(d) indicate the billing as revenue in the income statement (not
the collection as is currently done) and show accounts receiv-
able in the balance sheet;
(e) bill all subscribers, including those who are entitled to free
service, and show the value of free service as operating cost;
(f) incorporate OTS' accounts on a gross basis in PTD's financial
statements (e.g., (a) include the full amount billed under
revenues and show operating expenses separately, and (b)
incorporate the gross value of OTS' assets and show depre-
ciation separately);
(g) make adequate provisions in the balance sheet and adjust
revenues and operating cost accordingly, in case timely
information is lacking as regards to amounts for parti-
cipation in international calls due to PTD by foreign
administrations or due by PTD to foreign administrations;
(h) charge income with an interest of 10% on average net balance
of funds received from Government. Funds received from
Government should be defined as PTD's accumulated needs for
capital expansion not covered by its internal cash generation
after debt service (assuming a repayment period of 20 years
or less); and
(i) book current liabilities, show them in the balance sheet and
adjust operating costs when appropriate.



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Income Statement
(Rs 000)
Revised
Actual             Budget                           Forecast
Years Ending December 31:            1976      1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982        1983        1984
Operating Revenues
Rentals                             18,405   19,268   19,348   21,190   24,500   26,500          29,400      33,600       37,800
Metered calls                       35,978   47,612   53,008   67,310  115,400  157,800    205,300    266,700    320,100
Manual trunk calls                  15,512   12,686    9,788   10,000   11,600   12,000          12,000      12,000       12,000
Foreign calls                       21,669   32,460   42,539   59,483   90,000  131,300    164,100    205,200    256,400
Total Telephone Revenue             91,570  112,026  125,483  157,983  241,500  327,600    410,800    517,500    626,300
Telex                               16,723   29,589   37,359   46,814   86,400  126,000    157,500    196,900    246,100
Telegraph                           40,148   42,312   43,785   48,754   55,000   60,500          66,600      73,200       80,500
Miscellaneous                        9,484   15,819   16,489   16,950   20,400   24,500          29,400       35,300      42,300
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES          157,925  199,746  223,116  270,501  403,300  538,600    664,300    822,900    995,200
Operating Expenses
Salaries                            56,058   67,431   72,586   83,500  100,200  115,200    129,100    144,500    161,900
Maintenance                         20,864   21,717   24,974   28,890   34,700   39,900          45,900       52,700      60,700
Operation and administration        36,653   44,440   65,971   81,320  105,700  132,100    165,100    206,400    258,000
Depreciation:  historic cost        15,700   18,700   21,500   27,000   38,800   62,100          78,000      93,400    107,700
revaluation         3,600    3,600   11,100   11,100   15,000   20,200           26,500      34,400      43,800
Total Operating Expenses           132,875  155,888  196,131  231,810  294,400  369,500    444,600    531,400    632,100
Operating income                    25,050   43,858   26,985   38,691  108,900  169,100    219,700    291,500    363,100
Less:  interest                     16,300   18,700   21,500   25,100   63,400   91,400    106,400    113,400    110,900
NET INCOME                           8,750   25,158    5,485   13,591   45,500   77,700    113,300    178,100    252,200
Average Net Plant:
Historic cost                   138,500  177,600  231,600  282,600  432,400  751,500  1,072,800  1,299,700  1,496,500
Revalued                        175,300  210,800  306,100  394,600  556,500  920,100  1,800,800  1,599,200  1,879,400
Operating Ratio:
Historic cost (%)                   82        76       83        82        69        65         63          60           59
Rovalued (z)                        84       78        88        86        73        69         67          65          64
Rate of Return:
Historic cost (%)                  20.7     26.7      16.4      17.6      28.7      25.2       22.9        25.1         27.2
Revalued (%)                      14.3      20.8       8.8       9.8      19.6      18.4       16.9        18.2        19.3



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Balance Sheet
(Rs 000)
Revised
Actual             Budget                             Forecast
Years Ending December 31:             1976     1977      1978      1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Assets
Fixed assets in operation:
Historic cost                    262,800  352,500  410,900  503,000    776,400  1,242,000  1,559,100  1,867,200  2,153,900
Revaluation adjustments           71,600   71,600  221,900  221,900    299,405    404,200    530,500    687,600    876,500
Less depreciation on:
Historic cost                    120,700  139,400  160,900  187,900    226,700    288,800    366,800    460,200    567,900
Revaluation adjustments           36,600   40,200  104,300  115,400    157,700    208,700    270,000    349,000    449,400  I
Net fixed assets in operation    177,100  244,500  367,600  421,600    691,400  1,148,700  1,452,800  1,745,600  2,013,100 o
Work in progress                    89,700   58,400   92,100  273,400    465,600    317,100    308,100    286,700    281,500
Total Fixed Assets                 266,800  302,900  459,700  695,000  1,157,000  1,465,800  1,760,900  2,032,300  2,294,600
Stores                              25,800   42,600   54,000   60,000         66,000      72,600      79,900      87,800      96,600
Receivables                           -         -         -         -         87,100    119,500    149,400    187,400    228,700
TOTAL ASSETS                       292,600  345,500  513,700  755,000  1,310,100  1,657,900  1,990,200  2,307,500  2,619,900
Liabilities                                                                         1/
Equity:  accumulated profits        73,000   98,200  103,700  117,300    228,100-   305,800    419,100    597,200    849,400
revaluation reserve        38,600   38,600  135,900  135,900    186,100    260,100    351,600    464,100    596,400
Total Equity                       111,600  136,800  239,600  253,200    414,200    565,900    770,750  1,061,300  1,445,800
Debt to Government:  long term   159,000  177,000  233,400  446,700    821,800  1,005,400  1,123,400  1,145,100  1,072,200   t
current       22,000   31,700   40,700   55,100        74,100      86,600      96,100    101,100    101,900   g
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  292,600  345,500  513,700  755,000  1,310,100  1,657,900  1,990,200  2,307,500  2,619,900
Debt/Debt & Equity (%)                 59       56        49        64         66          64          59          52          43
Current ration (times)               1.2       1.3       1.3       1.1        2.1         2.2         2.4         2.7         3.2
1/ Includes an adjustment of Rs. 65.3 million (.75 x 87.1) for increase in receivables due to
changed accounting Procedures in 1980.



SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Funds Flow Statement
(Rs 000)
Revised
Actual              Budget                                  Forecast
Years Ending December 31:              1976       1977      1978     1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984        1980-84
Sources
Operating income                      25,050   43,858    26,985   38,691   108,900   169,100   219,700   291,500   363,100            1,152,300
Depreciation                          19,300   22,300    32,600   38,100    58,800    82,300   104,500   127,800   151,500               519,900
Internal cash generation              44,350   66,158    59,585   76,791   162,700   251,400   324,200   419,300   514,600            1,672,200
Borrowing                             B5,900   33,500    75,200  235,300   400,200   224,700   168,300    77,800   (15,700) /            855,300
TOTAL SOURCES                        130,250   99,658   134,785  312,091   562,900   476,100   492,500   497,100   498,900            2,527,500
Requirements                                                                                                                                               a,
Capital construction:
Proposed project                      -         -          -        -         4,100    72,400   246,800   213,300    30,000           566,400
Other works                         89,700   58,400    92,100  273,400   461,500   244,700    61,300    73,400   251,500            1,092,600
Total Program                         89,700   58,400    92,100  273,400   465,600   317,100   308,100   286,700   281,500            1,659,000
Debt service:  interest               16,300   18,700    21,500   25,100    63,400    91,400   106,400   113,400   110,900               485,500
amortization          12,800   15,500    18,800   22,000    25,100    41,100    50,300    56,100    57,200               229,800
Total Debt Service                    29,100   34,200    40,300   47,100    88,500   132,500   156,700   169,500   168,100               715,300
Change in working capital             11,450         7,058    2,385   (8,409)    8,800=   26,500    27,700    40,900    49,300           153,200
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                   130,250   99 658   134 785  312,091   562,900   476,100   492,500   497,100   498,900            2,527,500
Debt service ratio (times)             1.5       1.9        1.5      1.6        1.8        1.9        2.1        2.5        3.1            2.3
3/
Contribution to exppnsio- M(7)           4        43         18       14         14         29         45         73        106             48
1/ Accelerated repayment
2/ After an adjustment of Rs. 65.3 million (.75 x 87.1) of receivables in 1980 due to the introduction of billing as revenue
in the income statement (not the collection as previously).
3/ Defined as the part of the investment program covered by internal cash generation after debt service and increase in
working capital (which is the same as the percent not financed by increased borrowing).



- 66 -
ANNEX 25
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS (PTD)
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1.        Actual results for fiscal years 1976-79 have been adjusted for
revaluation of fixed assets in operation to facilitate comparison with the
forecast period.
Income Statement
2.        Operating Revenues:  Amounts shown under FY76-78 are PTD's actual
collection and amounts shown under FY79 are revised estimates of collection.
The discrimination of OTS' collection between international telephone, telex,
telegraph and miscellaneous for FY78-79 is based on preliminary information
and may be subject to revisions.
3.        Amounts projected for FY80-84 refer to billing.  The annual increase
in collection has been about 25% in FY76-79 and the billiug cycle during that
period three to four months. On this basis, FY80 billing is estimated to be
about 7% higher than the collection for that year.
4.        Rentals are expected to increase in proportion to average number of.
new subscribers connected under the program.
5.        Metered traffic is expected to increase 20% in 1980, 30% in 1981-83
due to improved long distance facilities provided under the program, and 20%
per year as from 1984.
6.        Manual trunk calls are expected to remain on the 1979 level as the
traffic increase will be absorbed by the expanded STD facilities.
7.        International telephone traffic is expected to increase about 25%
per year as from 1980. A tariff increase averaging 40% is projected as from
June 1980.
8.        Telex traffic is expected to increase 50% in 1980, when the new
telex exchange is put in service, and 25% per year thereafter due to increased
number of telex subscribers.
9.        Telegraph revenues are expected to grow only about 10% per year from
1980. The increase in international traffic will be mainly absorbed by the
telex service. No tariff increase is foreseen.



- 67 -
ANNEX 25
Page 2 of 3
10.       Miscellaneous revenues are expected to increase 20% per year
as from 1980.
Operating Expenses
11.       Salaries are expected to increase 20% in 1980, 15% in 1981 and
4           12% per year thereafter.
12.       Maintenance costs are expected to increase 20% in 1980 and 15%
annually as from 1981. New equipment added under the program should require
substantially less maintenance than previously installed equipment.
13.       Costs for operation and administration include payments to foreign
telecommunications administrations for international calls. Increases
averaging 25% per year are expected.
14.       Depreciation up to FY79 is based on PTD's accounts and has been
calculated as from FY80 at a rate of 5% on fixed assets in operation at end
of year. Depreciation of revaluation adjustments has been shown separately
to facilitate comparison with results of the revaluation study, when com-
pleted.
Non-operating Cost
15.       Interest has been calculated at 10% on PTD's estimated average
debt to Government. The treasury does not document any lending to PTD or
interest payments on such lending. The notional booking of debt and
interest is, therefore, only made within PTD to show results as they would
have been if PTD were operated on a commercial basis.
Balance Sheet
16.       The historic cost of fixed assets in operation for FY76-79 are
based on PTD's book values. Rupees 27.0 million (or 50%) of assets acquired
up to 1956 are estimated to have been taken out of service and book values
for fixed assets and corresponding accumulated depreciation have been
reduced accordingly.  Projections of FY80-84 are based on PTD's investment
program.
*          17.        Revaluation of fixed assets in operation (and corresponding
depreciation) up to FY79 has been based on an index arrived at by dividing
the exchange rate between the SL Rupee and US Dollar at the year of reval-
uation by the exchange rate at the year of acquisition (about 80% is
imported equipment). As from FY80 an increase in value of PTD's fixed
assets of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% thereafter has been assumed,
equalling projected cost increases for replacement of telecommunications
plant. A summary is given below:



- 68 -
ANNEX 25
Page 3 of 3
(a)  up to 1968                  Rs  7.2/US$
(b)  1969-77                     Rs 11.9/US$
(c)  1978-79                     Rs 15.6/US$
(d)  1980                        9%
(e)  1981                        8%
(f)  As from 1982                7% per annum
This approach results in a 44% revaluation of PTD's fixed assets in operation
as at end of FY79.
18.       Work in progress has been assumed to equal the capital expendi-
tures of the year. Actual values up to FY79 are lacking, but available
information indicates that the assumption is reasonable.
19.       Stores, up to FY79, are based on PTD's books.  An increase of only
10% per year has been assumed thereafter, as new equipment installed under
the 1980-84 program will need fewer spare parts than now existing equipment.
20.       Receivables have not been booked up to FY79 and no estimate has
been done up to that year, as adequate data on billing is missing (compare
paragraph 3 above). As from FY80, receivables are assumed to equal three
months of telephone and telex billing.
21.       Fiscal year 1976 equity has been defined as the difference between
assets and liabilities. Accumulated profits and revaluation provisions have
been added thereafter. In 1980 Rs. 65.3 (.75 x 87.1) million has been
added, which is the estimated equivalent of receivables not booked over the
year.
22.       Long-term debt for FY76 is based on PTD's notional accounting for
financing of past capital investments. Funds needed, but not covered by
PTD's internal cash generation, have been added thereafter (compare para-
graph 15 above). Amortization period has been assumed to 20 years. When
PTD has surplus funds, amortization is accelerated.
23.       Current liabilities are assumed to equal 5% (current portion) of
long-term debt and 50% of stores (compare paragraph 15 above).
Fund Flow Statement
24.       In 1980, only the estimated increase in receivables for the year
(.25 x 87.1 = Rs 21.8 million) has been included under "increase in working
capital".



- 69 -
ANNEX 26
SRI LANKA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT (PTD)
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
Al - Telecommunications Ordinance No. 50 of 1944, (Act No. 7 of 1945)
A2 - Telecommunications (Amendment) Law No. 17 of 1974
A3 - Report of the Permanent Tariff Committee, 1978
A4 - Report of the Auditor General for the Year 1978
A5 - Gazette Notification No. 16/11 of December 28, 1978 on
Telecommunications Tariffs
A6 - UNDP Project Document of Telecommunications Training Center
A7 - Rural Telecommunications in Sri Lanka - September 1978
A8 - Patterns of Development
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl  - Telecommunications Sector Mid Term Development Program:  1978-82
B2 - PTD Paper on Telecommunications Development in Sri Lanka
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl - Planning Schedule
C2 - PTD's 1980 Budget
C3 - Telephone Installation Program (3 charts)
C4 - National Trunk Network (7 charts)
C5 - Implementation Schedule
C6 - Cost Estimates
C7 - Calculation of Contingencies
C8 - Working Paper on Revaluation of Assets
C9 - Calculation of Incremental Rate of Return
C10 - Organization Charts
D. Other Information Used in the Project
Nil






IBRD 14824
800                               8I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~FEBRUARY 1960
SRI LANKA                                                 11
-10,                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL TRUNK  NETWORK
Microwave Radio Systems and Trunk Automatic Exchanges
5 WCRWAVE RADIO SYSTEMS
-     EXISTING
UNDER INSTALLATION ITO BE COMMISSIONED IN 1990)
-     TO BE INSTALLED UNDER THE IDA PROJECT
TO BE UPGRADED UNDER THE IDA PROJECT
*   EXISTING REPEATERS
*   PROPOSED REPEATERS
TORUNK AATOMATIC EXCHANGES.
____                                   *       ~~~~~~~~~~~AT TERTIARY CENTERS jPROIPOSED)
*   AT SECONDARY CENTERS (EXISTING)
*   AT SECONDARY CENTERS IFUTURE)
Thu                                                          ~~~~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~TE    'a"'N   A BA OUNDARIES
'TER'TIA RY ARE
Tolairnanncir                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY AREA
nor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-                 -       ~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        9
- ~     Mod~konda
/                            ~~~Boy of Beoga/
A,,uradEopuro 
Nochchiy   anom/
liyamalagala ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~8
0c e  a  a                                              Kurunegaloi               1jMata~ 7NY   I
70  {                                                                                                                                /          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~elnoAmparDI 
Tths t0~~~~hOO5MRantssowlan.anBenanchi  ill                                                                       Bd. 1
Wrt.,  Ian 0. t0-t eolore,i                                 1                          HTonk                                       o unkulo                                  e
Cr. aaor-,n 0* and rIte
bororrthri eheor o tOre Wth      Ponodr
Word Rorhannapuraieesan
PAKISTAN,J               _-C HI N A                                       IStyk
~NDIA                                                                                                                                          rIKr             Or a
A-b- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-
S   10        20        3D       41        50 RIn-
Iootn     L.ANKA                                                                                 RIO                                                                 S2q



