Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2698-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 24, 1980
This document ha. a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1             =   Rs 15.6 -
Rs 1             =   US$0.064
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,103
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)              =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
I square mile (sq mi)   =   640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)              =   30.5 centimeters (cm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ITU  -  International Telecommunications Union
PTD  -  Posts and Telecommunications Department
STD  -  Subscriber Trunk Dialing
UHF  -  Ultra High Frequency
VHF  -  Very High Frequency
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   At the time of appraisal.  Current exchange rate is US$1 = Rs 16.30.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                 US$30 million equivalent.
Terms;                  Standard.
Project Description:   The project aims at improving the telecommunications
services by: replacing antiquated worn-out automatic
switching equipment and manual exchanges by modern
electronic switching equipment; replacing openwire
lines by high quality radio systems; extending local
services; providing high capacity and stable trans-
mission network; and providing basic telecommunications
to rural areas currently poorly served. Major com-
ponents of the project are:
(a) installation of about 17,000 lines of local
automatic switching equipment (including
8,000 lines for replacement), associated
cables and subscribers plant, and a total of
about 16,000 new telephone connections, and
about 250 local call offices;
(b) installation of three new trunk automatic
exchanges and expansion of eight existing
trunk automatic exchanges;
(c) the upgrading of two existing microwave
systems, installation of five new microwave
systems, about 150 UHF/VHF systems of dif-
ferent sizes and 5,200 channel ends; and
(d) about 500 long distance public call offices
in rural areas.
The Posts and Telecommunications Department (PTD)
is competent to implement the project; there are no
serious technical risks in implementing the proposed
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                        US$ Million Eouivaleri-
Component               Local   iureign  ±otai
Local facilities                3.0     10.5    13.5
Transmission equipment          1.3      8.0      9.3
Trunk switching equipment       0.2      3.5      3.7
Air conditioning equipment
and standby generators       0.1       1.0      1.1
Vehicles                        0.2      1.0      1.2
Training and consultancies    0.1        1.0      1.1
Base Cost                  4.9      25.0    29.9
Physical contingencies          0.1      0.5      0.6
Price contingencies             1.3      4.5      5.8
Total Project Cost 1/      6.3      30.0    36.3
Financing Plan:                                        US$ Million Equivalent
Source                     Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                              -      30.0    30.0
Government                      6.3       -       6.3
Estimated                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:         IDA FY              1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual               4.0    12.0    11.0       3.0
Cumulative           4.0    16.0    27.0    30.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            33%
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2835-CE of April 18, 1980
I/   PTD is exempt from custom duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSQCIATIQN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
the equivalent of US$30.0 million on standard IDA terms to help fj;kqJ t
telecommunications project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues
and Prospects" (Report No. 1939-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1978. An economic mission visited Sri Lanka
in December 1979 to prepare an economic report which is scheduled for distri-
bution in May 1980. This section draws on the preliminary findings of that
mission. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy
is experiencing rapid growth and unprecedentedly high levels of savings and
investment. This remarkable turnaround is explained by the Central Bankf
of Ceylon as the "spontaneous reaction of a long repressed economy to its
liberalization by the new economic policies initiated in 1977". Until 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance was below both need and potential. Although
GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the average for low
income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77 period to 2.9%
per annum, just below the average for low income countries. Through much of
this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding even these
modest gains: as a consequence, per capita gross national income rose by a
mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in economic
growth in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of factors,
including inadequate investment, poor management of the economy and a policy
environment unconducive to growth and investment, which were compounded by
bad weather and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and fuel.
4.        The three tree crops - tea, rubber and coconuts - which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate
incentives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, intro-
duced in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertain-
ties surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recommen-
dation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed credit
to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Smallholder
Rubber Rehabilitation Project Report No. P-2777-CE, dated April, 16,
1980).



d- 2 -
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highlv protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.
6.        The poor growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over I million, or nearly 20% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.        Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings. These surpluses began to disappear in the late 1960s as
government policies discriminated against these crops and the terms of trade



- 3 -
deteriorated. With growth in other productive sectors in the economy also
decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources available for
social programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As
a consequence, expenditures on social services other than the food subsidy
began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures and GDP, threat-
ening the hard-won gains in health and education. In sum, the economy was no
longer generating the resources needed to sustain a large program of welfare
expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope
of policy makers to shift resources to development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle.  The
new Government identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation
of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utili-
zation in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment,
and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation with the IMF.
Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource allocations and
initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic relative
prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby arrangement
covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the Fund's Executive
Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement covering the 1979-81
period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms have been introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime was liberal-
ized. With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products,
public sector import monopolies were terminated. Prior licensing
of imports was abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The
tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply.
Price Controls: These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turnover
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
Tax rates were substantially lowered and rationalized to be con-
sistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially co...fined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the Gov-
ernment introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific food sub-
sidies and rationing, and to target benefits to the poorest. Ini-
tially about seven million persons were issued with food and kero-
sene stamps. To offset the adverse impact of these changes on real
incomes, public sector wages have twice been adjusted upwards, and
in February 1978 an income supplement was introduced at Rs 50 per
month to benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons
had no gainful employment. Public corporations were asked to pass
on cost increases, except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum,
milk and public transport, where price increases were initially
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government has
subsequently made sizable adjustments in flour, rice and sugar
prices, bus fares, and petroleum prices. The burden of subsidies
and transfers has, as a consequence fallen from around 9% of GNP
in 1978 to around 5% in 1980. These changes, taken together with
higher aid receipts, have permitted a sizable step up in capital
expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of
personal and company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for
rice was increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices,
incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. Fresh
coconut prices have also been increased by 30% and the export duty
on coconut products has been appropriately adjusted. While the uni-
fication of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against
tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set at a level which
effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to the Government. As
tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by a lowering of taxes on
tea. Further adjustments in both the structure and level of tea
taxation will be needed to maintain and improve incentives.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of gross national product at market prices in 1977 to an average
of 13% in 1978 and 1979, as government departments responded to an improved
budgetary resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement invest-
ments and new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources.
The Government has also embarked on four major new programs which are to be
the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) Accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by



far the largest multi-purpose river basin development ever    '-Fak"-  i
Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly
constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the
first Investment Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katuna-
yake, and is planning others, and has approved some 92 proposals involving a
total investment of US$176 million by December 1979; (iii) a massive housing
and urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan
region; and (iv) the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb
of Colombo.
13.       These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 25 billion,
or 43% of the projected Rs 60 billion public investment program over the
1980-84 period. The Government's tentative macro-economic scenario envisages
public investment taking one-half of total investment which is expected to
average an ambitious 23% of GNP in 1980-84 as against 16% in the early 1970s.
To enable this increase to materialize, gross domestic savings are expected
to average 16.3% of GNP, and net external inflows nearly 7%. This implies
a substantial increase in external inflows which averaged 2.3% of GNP in the
1970-76 period. Official development assistance is to finance 54% of public
investment.
14.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
15.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in public investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth between 1977 and 1980 is estimated at an impressive 6.7% per annum.
This growth has been shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the
most dynamic sectors being construction, mining and quarrying, electricity,
gas and water and manufacturing.  The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. This impressive performance is due to a number of factors
including the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization,
an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal
of price controls.
16.       Domestic savings reached 15% of GNP in 1978 and 1979, well above
historical levels. Financial savings, as measured by fixed and savings
deposits, have responded dramatically to the change in interest rates.
Public and private investment have also risen sharply, bringing total invest-
ment to 20% of GNP in 1978 and 25% in 1979. This has been reflected in a
four-fold increase in capital goods imports from $84 million in 1977 to an
estimated $350 million in 1979. Much of the investment reflected pent up
demand for replacement of antiquated equipment in industry and transport.
Investment approvals in 1978 and 1979 for manufacturing reached record
levels; those involving foreign collaboration totalled $300 million, of



- 6 -
which over one-half were in the new free trade zone. Although there is
little data available on employment, the Central Bank estimates a sizable
(102,000) increase in the public sector and organized private sector employ-
ment in 1978 as against an increase of 40,000 in 1977. This would have
contributed to the fall in open unemployment from an estimated one million
to 900,000, or 16% of the labor force.
17.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy induced price increases
and related wage increases, and the removal of price controls contributed
significantly to inflatiDnary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these
pressures were moderated in 1978 by a bumper paddy harvest, increased capacity
utilization in the economy, increased availability of imports and the benefi-
cial effects of competition from imports and in domestic distribution. Thus
average annual inflation was held to 9% in 1978. There was a marked deterior-
ation in 1979 - average annual inflation rose to 18% (32% on December 1978
to December 1979 basis) due to an acceleration in money supply expansion on
account of the continued buildup in gross external assets and the rapid
domestic bank credit expansion, and to a sharp increase in construction sector
costs, as the increase in investment levels led to shortages of construction
materials and skilled labor.
18.       Not surprisingly, the current account deficit in the balance of
payments rose sharply to $150 million in 1978 and $360 million in 1979.
After a strong surge in 1978, merchandise imports rose by a further 41% in
1979 to $1,450 million, or twice 1977 levels, reflecting sizable increases
in the cost of petroleum imports, and substantial real increases in non-food
consumer goods, intermediate and investment goods imports. Exports rose
by a more modest 18% to $900 million in 1979. However, as in 1978, the
current account deficit was more than offset by non-monetary capital inflows,
resulting in an increase in net foreign exchange reserves by a further
$46 million. Gross reserves rose by $121 million to $519 million at end
1979, due largely to drawings on the Extended Fund Facility. Reserves are
currently equivalent to about four months imports. Preliminary balance of
payments projections for 1980 suggest a further marked deterioration in the
current account deficit to $600 million, due in part to the sharp rise in
the cost of petroleum imports. Net pet.oleum imports as a percentage of non-
petroleum exports will rise from 14% in 1979 to 26% in 1980. At currently
projected aid levels, net reserves are likely to fall by nearly $60 million
in 1980.
19.       Success in attaining the Government's medium-term development
objectives is conditional on a number of factors. The Government will need to
carefully continue reviewing the content of its public investment program. As
presently proposed, it will severely strain the domestic availability of
skilled manpower and construction materials. To the extent that this forces a
greater reliance on imports, it will further strain the balance of payments,
which is already under severe pressure on account of the oil price increase
and other factors that will result in a deterioration in the terms of trade.
Moreover, domestic production and exports will need to increase at a rapid
rate to ensure the required level of import substitution and export promotion
implicit in the Government's macro-framework. This, in turn, will require
further efforts to improve price and export incentives, and the quality of
management in the public sector, and particularly in the tree crop sector.



-7 -
A further essential precondition is an adequate level of public savings to
generate the required resources for public investment without infringing on
the financing needs of the private sector. While the Government has already
undertaken a number of important resource mobilization measures, this will
need to be an area of continuing vigilance. However, success will ultimately
be contingent on larger aid flows which are needed to ensure that an ambitious
development program, with a strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented
within the framework of a liberalized import regime. The Government is antici-
pating that aid flows will finance over one-half of the public investment pro-
gram, including considerable local cost financing. In this way, the Govern-
ment's own considerable resource mobilization efforts will be supplemented,
while at the same time providing strong balance of payments support during
this period of economic transformation.
20.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy environ-
ment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka Aid
Group totalled US$362 million, an increase of 60% over 1977. Aid commitments
in 1979 totalled a massive $660 million, including $220 million for the acce-
lerated Mahaweli Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently
around 63% and is expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1979,
excluding Fund repurchases, stood at around 8.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977
and 10.0% in 1978, due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstand-
ing short- and medium-term borrowings.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
21.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the
Bank Group has made eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancella-
tions) and 21 credits totalling US$266.5 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 27 projects. About 44% of Bank Group
assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy
development), 17% for power, and the remainder for development finance company
operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry), water supply, road transport, small and medium
industries and technical assistance. Eight loans and eight credits have been
fully disbursed so far. During FY80, IDA credits for a total of US$56.0
million have been approved for a technical assistance project, and a Road
Passenger Transport Project. A US$16.0 million Credit for a Smallholder
Rubber Rehabilitation Project is scheduled to be considered by the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1980. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of February 29, 1980, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
22.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Devel-
opment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in
FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$2.32 million in a synthetic
textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in
FY79. IFC has very recently approved an increase in equity investment of
about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC.
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce



- 8 -
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to sup-
port basic infrastructure are also included. In addition to providing fin-
ancing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II, the Bank Group
is assisting the Government of Sri Lanka in accelerating the implementation of
the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program (para 12) principally through the
coordination of external assistance for project preparation and implementation.
It is expected that significant investment opportunities for IDA and other Aid
Group members will flow from this effort. Projects in water supply and
sewerage, rural development, and power transmission also are being prepared
for possible IDA financing.
24.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD, 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
IBRD) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 19% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
25.       The Posts and Telecommunications Department (PTD) under the Ministry
of Posts and Telecommunications is responsible for both the domestic and
international public telecommunications services in Sri Lanka. PTD also
manages the postal and other related services, and regulates radio frequencies.
A few government agencies--defense and security services, railways, civil
aviation and some local administrations--operate their own private networks
under license from the PTD. The main institutional deficiency is combining
two different services, namely posts and telecommunications, under one manage-
ment. Also, the current dependence of PTD on (a) other government departments
whose policies may not be consistent with sound public utility practices; and
(b) government allocation for its recurrent and capital expenditures (as all
PTD's revenues are paid into the Government's Consolidated Revenue Fund)
affect adversely the management, operation and development of telecommuni-
cations services in Sri Lanka.
26.       Due to inadequate past investments in the sector, there is a lack
of basic telecommunications facilities in many parts of the country, and,
where available, they are inadequate and of poor quality. With the telecom-
munications services increasingly becoming the least-cost means of communica-
tion for a growing proportion of the population, lack of adequate and good
quality telecommunications services impedes business and commerce, social
services, government administration, and economic development.
Access to Service
27.       In mid-1979, Sri Lanka had 0.36 telephone lines per 100 population
which is about the average of developing countries in Asia but poor compared
to developed countries. Existing facilities are heavily concentrated in
Colombo and other urban areas which have about 1.28 lines per 100 population



- 9 -
as against only 0.08 lines per 100 population in the rest of the country. In
mid 1979, there were about 53,500 telephone lines working in Sri Lanka. Out
of approximately 24,300 population centers in the country, about 670 large
centers of business, trade and government administered by municipal, urban,
town or village councils have access to telecommunications service. Of the
remaining 23,630, only about 900 have access to service through long distance
public call offices. There is no domestic telex service, but about 300
businesses and government agencies, mainly in Colombo, have access to inter-
national telex.
Telephone Service Usage
28.       The primary use of telephone service in Sri Lanka is for business
and government administration. About 44% of the telephones are located in
business establishments and 31% in government offices. These telephones
account for about 85% of the total local telephone traffic generated in a
24-hour period. This, however, understates the actual business related usage
because about another 50% of the remaining "residential" telephones are also
used primarily for business, but located in residences adjacent to business
premises. The heavy business use is illustrated by the fact that about 6%
of such lines generate about 37% of total revenue. As regards long distance
traffic, Colombo is the focus of about 75% of national long distance calls,
reflecting its predominance in business and government; of the balance in each
administrative district, about half is directed towards the headquarters town
of the district.
Existing Facilities and Service Quality
29.       The existing telecommunications facilities in Sri Lanka are meager,
generally poor in quality and highly fault-prone. About 98% of the local
switching equipment is automatic. Of this, only about 16% is modern; the
remaining 82% of automatic equipment and all manual exchanges are antiquated
and worn-out, with availability of spare parts a major problem. Shortage
of telephones vis-a-vis the expressed demand, consequent heavy use of available
telephones which are kept busy for long periods and repeated attempts to call
these numbers, exacerbate the already severe traffic congestion on the network
due to shortage of common plant. This, combined with technical faults in the
poorly constructed open-wire distribution network, leads to many call failures.
Many long distance and international calls are known to fail because of the
deficient local network. Long distance service is operator controlled except
for subscriber trunk dialing (STD) service between 13 towns. Due to frequent
and long outages on extensive open-wire network and manual operation, the
quality of the long distance service is poor, with delays ranging from four
to six hours. STD service is also poor due to shortage of long distance cir-
cuits and congestion in local networks. Subject to availability of domestic
links, the international services are generally satisfactory.
Demand for Service
30.       PTD has not made any systematic attempt to forecast future demand.
The current registered waiting list also does not reflect the real demand at
existing prices because: (a) demand is not registered in areas currently
without telephone service; (b) many potential customers are discouraged from



- 10 -
applying by the current long waiting lists and waiting periods, and (c) in
rural areas, where telephones are primarily used for long distance calls,
potential customers are discouraged by the current poor quality of long
distance service. Experience in other countries has shown that once service
quality improves and the waiting period for new telephones is reduced, there
will be an increase in demand. PTD has assessed that, against the past 3%
to 4% annual growth rate up to 1976 and 6% annual growth rate thereafter, the
future annual growth rate in demand will be about 9%. This is conservative
but acceptable. After extending the system capacity by about 75% during the
project period (1980-84), it is anticipated that by end 1984 about 24% of the
expressed demand would not be met and there would be about 28,000 pending
applicants on the waiting list (against 23,000 at end of 1979).
Sector Constraints and Objectives
31.       The major constraints impeding the development of the sector in
the past have been inadequate investment, reliance on obsolete equipment and
institutional deficiencies. In seeking to overcome these deficiencies, PTD
has set for itself the following sector development objectives for the next
10 to 15 years:
(a) improving the quality of service by replacement of anti-
quated, worn-out automatic and manual exchanges by modern
equipment; replacement of open-wire lines by radio or
cable systems; expansion of common plant to remove traffic
bottlenecks; and automation of local and long distance
services;
(b) improving access to service through planned, balanced, inte-
grated and increasingly rapid expansion of facilities;
(c) providing domestic telex service to all important govern-
ment administration, business and trade centers;
(d) extending public telegraph service to all rural population
centers with post offices; and
(e) establishing domestic manufacture of telecommunications
equipment where economically justified.
32.       For effective implementation of a rapid and orderly expansion
program meeting the above objectives, several institutional improvements
are also proposed.
The Bank's Role in the Sector
33.       Though the Bank has not been involved in the telecommunications
sector in the past, at this critical stage when the Government and the PTD
are embarking on the first major countrywide effort for integrated develop-
ment of telecommunications facilities, the Bank can play a significant role
in: guiding PTD in its development effort with emphasis on access to service
in rural areas; providing guidance and direction on investment priorities
and pricing policies consistent with developments in other sectors; providing
technical assistance to PTD in adoption and procurement of modern equipment



- 11 -
at least cost in a sector where the international rate of change in technology--
and obsolescence--is the highest; assisting PTD in identification and imple-
mentation of much needed institutional improvements over a wide spectrum of
operational, managerial and financial activities; and serving as a catalyst
in attracting external funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       In 1978, PTD prepared a "Mid-term (1979-83) Development Program",
subsequently revised as 1980-84 program, for development of telecommunications
facilities in Sri Lanka. In March 1979, with the assistance of Bank staff,
PTD identified and prepared a project for IDA financing as one component of
this development program. The project was appraised in November 1979. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in April 1980. The Government delegation was
led by Mr. C. J. Serasinghe, Secretary, Ministry of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Telecommunications Project" (No.
2835-CE dated April 18, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this
report and a supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
The Program
35.       PTD's 1980-84 development program comprises the following components:
(a) ongoing works carried over into the program period; (b) the proposed IDA
project; (c) other works to be executed under the program; and (d) pre-
investment in respect of works to be executed after 1984. The total cost of
the program is estimated at US$106.4 million including foreign cost of US$87.1
million. The expenditure on ongoing works during 1980-84 is estimated at
US$51.6 million with foreign exchange cost of US$42.0 million. Local and
foreign funds for the ongoing works have been allocated by the Government.
"Other Works" included in the program, estimated to cost US$15.2 million with
foreign cost of US$12.5 million, are additional works, which would supplement
development works under the proposed project and which PTD would undertake
during the program period subject to availability of financing. Delays in
execution of any or all of these "Other Works" will not affect the implementa-
tion of the IDA-financed project or the major benefits thereof. Funds for
pre-investment on works related to the post 1984 development program have
still to be arranged.
Project Objectives
36.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (a) improve the
quality of service through replacement of antiquated and worn-out automatic
and manual exchanges by modern electronic exchanges, and replacement of open-
wire lines by large capacity and high quality radio links; (b) extend and
automate local and long distance services in all important population and
trade centers; and (c) improve access to service in rural areas through
provision of basic telecommunications facilities in areas now without service.
The project also provides for establishment of a Telecommunications Department
for management and development of telecommunications services, and further



- 12 -
introduction of other in-house institutional improvements, including creation
of a Fundamental Planning Unit to improve the organization's capability for
long-term planning and identification of projects for integrated, balanced and
increasingly rapid development of telecommunications facilities.
Project Description
37.       The project proposed for IDA financing is a high priority, self-
contained part of the PTD's 1980-84 development program (para 35) and provides
for a balanced and integrated development of telecommunications facilities.
The project comprises mainly the following:
(a) installation of about 17,000 lines of local automatic
switching equipment (including 8,000 lines for replacement
of antiquated worn-out automatic switching equipment and
manual exchanges), about 72,000 pair kilometers of tele-
phone cables (including replacing of 42,000 pair kilo-
meters of old cables) and subscriber facilities for about
16,000 new telephone connections, and about 250 local call
offices;
(b) installation of three new trunk automatic exchanges with
total capacity of 650 lines and expansion of eight existing
trunk automatic exchanges by 650 lines for extension of
subscriber trunk dialing (STD) facility;
(c) the upgrading of two existing microwave systems, installa-
tion of five new microwave systems and about 150 UHF/VHF
systems of different capacities and multiplex equipment
for about 5,200 channel ends;
(d) installation of long distance public call offices in about
500 rural population and trade centers currently without
telephone service;
(e) provision of automatic number identification equipment in
local exchanges and automatic message accounting equipment
in trunk automatic exchanges for introduction of toll-
ticketing on STD calls; and
(f) civil works and other facilities for implementing the
project.
Project Costs and Financing
38.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$36.3 million equiv-
alent with foreign costs of US$30.0 million equivalent. PTD pays no custom
duties on imported goods and is exempt from taxes. The proposed IDA credit
of US$30 million would finance 100% of the foreign cost and the Government
would finance 100% of the local cost.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursements
39.       All goods to be financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit will
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except for switching equipment estimated to cost about US$0.7
million (2.3% of proposed IDA credit) required for extension of eight exist-
ing combined local and trunk exchanges, originally procured from Nippon
Electric Company (NEC) of Japan under a bilateral credit. For purposes of
compatibility, this equipment needs to be procured from the original supplier
through negotiations. IDA credit would be utilized for this procurement
subject to the prices for this equipment being reasonably in line with those
for similar equipment obtained through international competitive bidding.
Qualified domestic manufacturers of items such as cable ducts and accessories
shall be allowed a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of CIF price or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
40.       PTD needs some training experts for its new telecommunications
training center (para 48) and short-term technical expertise in respect
of frequency management, maritime telecommunications, traffic engineering,
telegraph switching, redesign of Colombo network based on digital technology
and design of technical specification for procurement of digital switching
equipment for the project. The total costs of the technical experts are
estimated to be about US$500,000. The average man-month cost, including the
man-month rate, international travel, and local subsistence is estimated to be
about US$5,000.
41.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over four years
1981 to 1984. The disbursements would be made against 100% of foreign expen-
diture for directly imported goods including cost of supplier supervision
of installations, where necessary, 100% of expenditures on consultancy ser-
vices, and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on locally manufactured
items and 75% of expenditures on items procured locally. The closing date of
the credit would be June 30, 1985.
Organization and Implementation
42.       The project would be implemented by PTD, which is a government
department under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. It is headed
by the Postmaster General and Director of Telecommunications, his title
reflecting the two services--postal and telecommunications--which are his
charge.
43.       PTD staff would prepare engineering designs and technical specifi-
cations, evaluate bids and prepare contract documents for all equipment,
except for the sophisticated electronic switching equipment for the local and
trunk automatic exchanges for which it proposes to employ consultants (para
40). PTD staff would carry out all equipment installations and cable construction;
in case of new sophisticated digital switching equipment, PTD staff would
install equipment under the supervision of supplier's staff. Civil works will
be executed through local contractors under PTD's supervision. PTD is capable
of implementing the project satisfactorily.



- 14 -
44.       Telecommunications Department.  The problems of management of the
capital-intensive, high-technology and rapid growth telecommunications serv-
ices and the labor-intensive, slow-growth postal services are quite different.
For effective implementation of a rapidly increasing development program and
effective management and operation of the expanded facilities, the management
of the telecommunications services needs to be separated from the postal serv-
ices with the ultimate objective of establishing an autonomous para-statal
telecommunications corporation. However, because of the administrative and
other implications (e.g., staff status, amendment to the Telegraph Act, revi-
sion of financial arrangements with the Government) of establishing such a
corporation, the changeover from a government department to a public sector
corporation needs to be effected gradually over a number of years. As a first
step, the Government will establish, by December 31, 1981, a separate Telecom-
munications Department with adequate powers and authority, satisfactory to the
Association, for operating as a financially viable and commercially oriented
entity functioning within the broad policy guidelines laid down by the Govern-
ment (draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Section 4.04). The proposed
Telecommunications Department, when established, will take over all the func-
tions and the responsibilities of the Telecommunications Branch of PTD.
45.       In establishing the Telecommunications Department, attention needs
to be given to removing some more important current internal institutional
deficiencies, particularly relating to proper coordination between the traffic,
engineering, finance, and overseas divisions at all levels. The recruitment
of the traffic staff from the postal branch and their interchangeability with
the postal staff would be discontinued and the traffic staff closely integrated
with the engineering staff. At present, in most areas, postal staff untrained
in telecommunications are responsible for all management and operation (except
engineering maintenance) of all telecommunications services. In future, all
aspects of telecommunications management and operations including commercial
interface with the public would be made the responsibility of traffic or
engineering staff clearly identified as telecommunications staff to both the
public and the management. The overseas division in charge of the international
links now operates as a semi-independent entity within the PTD, publishes its
own report and financial statements, which are then consolidated with the
statements of other PTD operations, and executes development works in respect
of international services without coordinating them with the domestic services.
This leads to less than optimal use of available facilities and loss of rev-
enue. Gradually, all aspects of international telecommunications services--
planning, development, operation, billing and revenue--would be fully integ-
rated with the domestic services except that, to meet the special requirement
of international telecommunications agreements and exchange of accounts with
other countries and international agencies, separate international accounts
and financial statements will continue to be prepared as at present.
46.       Fundamental Planning Unit.  PTD's planning organization is weak.
In the absence of an organization to assess the long-term (10-20 years) tele-
communications needs of the country and consequent absence of long range dev-
elopment plans, the development so far has been haphazard and piecemeal. To
overcome this shortcoming, a Fundamental Planning Unit needs to be established.
The functions of such a unit would be to: (a) assess the long-term needs and
set sector development objectives and priorities; (b) assess trends in costs



- 15 -
and, based on these, determine least cost solutions; (c) for each plan, review
adequacy of tariffs, organization, etc., and suggest appropriate changes; and
(d) consider basis and justification for establishing domestic manufacture.
The Government would establish a Fundamental Planning Unit within the proposed
Telecommunications Department by December 31, 1982 (draft DCA, Sel;tion 4,Q5)
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
47.       Staffing.  As of end 1979, the total number of staff employed on
telecommunications operations in PTD was about 10,400. With about 80,400 tele-
phones in service, the staff-telephone ratio was about 129 staff per 1,000
telephones. This is very high even compared to many developing countries.
PTD undertook a man-power study to assess its future requirements of staff
with different skills and expects to reduce the staff-telephone ratio by about
23%--from 129 to about 100 staff per 1,000 telephones--during the project
period, through increased productivity, recruitment of fewer staff with higher
skills and normal attrition.
48.       Training.  PTD's current training facilities are inadequate and defi-
cient in accommodation, instructors, training aids and literature. Due to
slow pace of past development, the effects of these inadequacies have not been
felt. PTD, however, recognizes the shortcomings and has started construction
of buildings for a new training center with a training capacity of 1,500 man-
months (against 750 man-months at present). The training center will not only
undertake training of new engineering staff but also train telephone operators
and telegraphists (now trained by postal branch), introduce courses in tele-
communications management, traffic, finance and accounts, and in-service train-
ing for existing staff in new sophisticated equipment to be introduced in the
system under the project. Assistance in the form of training aids for the new
training center will be provided under the project. UNDP/ITU have agreed to
provide US$500,000 to finance 30 man-months of training experts and 20 man-
months of training fellowships, and 50 man-months of other consultants.
49.       Financial Aspects.  The financial performance of PTD's telecommuni-
cations operations, based on cash and notional commercial accounts for 1976-
79, has been satisfactory in terms of both rate of return and internal cash
generation. On the whole, financial position of the Telecommunications Branch
of PTD is sound with an adequate capital structure. PTD's current telecom-
munications tariffs for domestic services effective since January 1, 1979,
with minor adjustments made in June 1979, are generally low but reasonable
considering PTD's low cost levels. Low off-peak night and weekend rates exist
for long distance telephone service. Since the system is designed for peak
hour traffic, this tariff structure ensures that subscribers with the greatest
need at peak hours (mainly business and government) pay a price which more
closely reflects the cost which they impose on the system. To ensure con-
tinued financial viability of telecommunications operations, telecommunica-
tions tariffs would be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of
return of at least 15% on revalued net fixed telecommunications assets in
operation during 1980-84. The Government would determine, by June 30, 1984,
such a rate of return, satisfactory to IDA, to be realized for the period
after December 31, 1984 (draft DCA, Section 4.09).



- 16 -
50.       PTD's international tariffs were increased Pho'-t 40T iv (cto$.-
1978. Even so, the current international collection rates are substantially
below the international accounting rates, which has contributed to distort
traffic patterns with a disproportionately high outgoing international traffic.
Furthermore, the low international rates have a serious negative impact on
PTD's finances (in extreme cases PTD pays foreign telecommunications admin-
istrations more for their participation in a call than it collects from its
subscribers). The Government will increase, by September 30, 1980, the col-
lection rate for international telephone and telex calls to the level of
accounting rate for such calls (draft DCA, Section 4.03). This would be in
line with ITU's recommendations, help to reduce the current distortion in
international traffic, and assist PTD in achieving a satisfactory financial
performance during the project period.
51.       Accounting.  PTD's cash accounting functions well and provides a
reasonable separation between postal and telecommunications services. Certain
commercial accounts are kept on a notional basis within PTD and year end
adjustments of the cash accounts are made to produce commercially oriented
financial statements. However, to monitor adequately the financial perform-
ance of PTD's telecommunications operations, additional commercial accounts
need to be introduced. Some steps in this direction (inventory of fixed
assets, introduction of depreciation rates, collection of billing records,
etc.) have already been taken by PTD. PTD will by January 1, 1981, commence
implementation of new accounting practices satisfactory to the Association,
and financial records and statements of its telecommunications operations
for FY81 and subsequent financial records and statements of the Telecommuni-
cations Department would reflect such accounting practices (draft DCA, Section
4.06).
52.       Audit.  As a government department, PTD's accounts are audited by
the Auditor General, who has four accountants permanently assigned to this
task in addition to auxiliary staff and PTD's own internal audit department.
The Auditor General is responsible for the audit of commercially oriented
government corporations in addition to government departments and has a staff
experienced in audits of commercial accounts. These arrangements are satis-
factory. PTD cannot close all its accounts until about four months after the
end of its fiscal year as certain accounts have to be reconciled with treasury
accounts, which are available only at about that time. PTD and subsequently
the proposed Telecommunication Department will therefore be required to send
to the Association unaudited accounts for its telecommunications operations
within eight months of the end of its fiscal year and the corresponding audit
report two months later (draft DCA, Section 4.07).
Economic Justification, Project Benefits and Risks
53.       Lack of swift and reliable communications could become a development
bottleneck as the Government increases its regional emphasis on investments
in industry and agriculture. It could also hinder the Government's efforts to
encourage private sector industry to establish outside the Colombo area.
Replacement and expansion of telecommunications facilities are needed in urban
areas to meet part of the unsatisfied demand, relieve congestion and, at a
minimum, prevent further deterioration in service quality. In smaller towns



- 17 -
and more remote areas currently unserved, access to service needs considerable
improvement.
54.       Urban lbsiness sectors and service industries are highly dependent
on telecommunications. Provision of additional lines under the project in
urban areas and relief of congestion will have impact on the efficiency of the
administration of business and the Government. Also, to the extent that tele-
phone connection is a substitute for face-to-face communications, it could
reduce growth in vehicular traffic and petroleum consumption.  Similarly, in
rural areas, automation and expansion of local networks, automation of long
distance service through STD, and provision of service through rural long dis-
tance call offices in some of the rural areas currently unserved would promote
government goals of decentralization, stimulate economic development, and
reduce transport-related costs of projects in other priority sectors. In par-
ticular, rural development programs involve, in many cases, use of staff with
limited expertise who obtain direction and advice from more qualified personnel
at main centers. The provision of long distance call offices in rural areas
and local call offices in urban areas will extend public access to telephone
facilities to a broad spectrum of the population in both geographical and
economic terms.
55.       The project is designed to provide significantly increased telephone
access to rural dwellers. The project would establish 500 new public call
offices in rural areas presently without such service. In urban areas, low-
income population will be provided more convenient access through public pay
telephones. Currently, 22.5% of the urban population and 4.8% of the rural
population have access to telecommunications service. The project would
increase the access of rural population to telecommunications facilities by
about 37% and of urban population by about 6.2%.
56.       The financial rate of return is estimated at 17%, but this signifi-
cantly understates the real benefits from the investment program because the
benefit stream used in the calculation does not include the consumer surplus
the telephone users receive. Including the future consumer surplus (baseo on
difference between rates in real terms which the existing subscribers and
registered applicants have demonstrated their willingness to pay and rattp
they are expected to be charged in the future), the economic rate of return
is estimated at 33%. This rate of return is, however, an understatement of
the benefits since it does not include a complete estimate of the value of
time saved through a reduction in the proportion of unsuccessful call attempts.
It does not also take into account many of the benefits received by those
who benefit indirectly through better administration of rural development,
health,transport and agricultural programs in general through increased
government efficiency, arising out of a more reliable and widespread tele-
communications network.
57.       The project presents limited risks.  The proposed project comprises
a large number of independent works. A delay in the implementation of a few
works would not prevent the use of other newly created assets. If delays
occur, the costs and benefits would be delayed in roughly the same proportion;
hence, the impact on the rate of return would not be significant.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Social-
ist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special Conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
April 24, 1980



- 19 -                                            Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LOU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RZFENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyEAGFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. TM-)                 SRI LANR                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 
TOTAL             65.6                                                   SAKE        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      24.2                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOMt       INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Ab ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PeR CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        100.0     190.0           191.1      209.6        467.5
ElERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRMS OF COAL E0IVALENT)       107.0       153.0      106.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATIOS AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      9.9         12.5      16.1
UBAN POPULATION (PEZCT OF TOTL) 17.9             21.9      24.3            13.2       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJCTIONS
PoPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. F1.                      151.0       191.0      215.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
pn SQ. 0t. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0        518.0     583.0            330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PRCECNT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1        41.9      38.0             44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         54.3        54.5      58.0             52.4       53.2        51.9
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.6       4.0              3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWhM RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.5         2.4        1.7             2.4        2.4         2.7
ulAN                               4.8         4.3        3.7             4.1        4.6         4.3
CRDDE  IRTH LRATE (PU THOUSAND)     36.0        30.0       26.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE  THOUSAD)       9.0          7.0       6.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2. 5         2. 3      1. 8            3.2        2.9         2. 7
FAMYLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        55.3      113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)               8.0      44.0              7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD A40 NUTRITION
INDEX OF FooD PRODUCTION
PEU CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.2       103.0      120.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PEU CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
IEQUIREKENTS)                   98.0        94.0       91.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEU DAY)          46.0        43.1      42.6             56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.7        11.8        8.9            10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NORTALITY RATE      7.0          3.0       2.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 8R1TH (YEARS)    62.0        67.0      69.0             49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           63.0        51.0      47.0&              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
?OPULATION)
.OTAL                               ..        21.0      20.0             31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               ..        46.0      45.0             63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               .-        14.0       13.0            ZO.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PRCUT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .-        64.0       59.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                               *-        76.0      68.0             66.8       65.1        71.3
RULAL                                -        61.0       35.0             2.5        3.5        27.,
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4500.0          ..    6230.0/R         7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION ?ER NURSING PZRSON     4150.0      2730.0    2240.0          12064.0     5552.4      .522.
POFULATION PER 8osPITAL BED
TOTAL                            330.0       330.0      330.0          2738.4     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..       130.0      140.0              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               .-       570.0      600.0              ..     2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER aOSPITAL BED            ..       54.0       51.3              .,       24.8        27.5
SOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF SOUSEBOLD
.OTAL                              5.4Lf       5.a        ..              ..         5.3         5.4
URBAN                              6.3/f       6.3         ..              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              5.2/        5.5        .-               *-        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
MOTAL                              Z.0/f       2.          ..
URBAN                              2. f        2.7        .. 
RURAL                              2. 0/f      2.5         **
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY PERCENT
SF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              7.5/f        9.)       ..               ..       22.5         R.1
URBAN                             35.9/7      34.5        ..              ..        17.3        .5.1
RURA                               2.37T       2.3        ..               ..         ..           9



- 20-                                        Annex I
Page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI   SO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REIERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
rI LANA                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SMz         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       OGCRAP9IC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        RZCION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL}NIT RATIOS
PIRIMARY:    TOTAL                  95.0         99.0       77.0/            59.5        63.3        82.7
MALE                 100.0        104.0       80.0            74.9        79.1         87.3
FMALE                 90.0         94.0       73.OU            43.7        48.4         75.8
SECONDAYt:  TOTAL                   27.0         51.0       55.0             19.5        16.7        21.4
I1AL                 38.0         50.0       54.0             27.8        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                16.0         51.0       56.0             10.0        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL EINROL. (E OF SECONDARY)    ..           1.0        1.0              1.3         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHZR RATIO
PRItARY                             31.0           *-       29.0             42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         ..               ..        21.7        23.4
AWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          75.0/h       77.6       78.1             25.5        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIOIN                          8.0          7.0        6.8              2.3         2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PZ  TIOUSAND
POPULATION                          36.0           *-       38.0             15.5        27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PF THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPEIR ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCU.ATION PEL
THOUSAND POPULATION                   36.0         49.0         ..              6.2         5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ArENDANCE PM CAPITA  3.0               ..        4.0               *-         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3391.0       4188.0    4707.0
FDiLE (PERCENT)                     22.6         23.7      28.5              21.4       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.3         55.1       54.0             66.3       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  13.5         14.4       15.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.3         33.5       34.6             35.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  50.8         49.2       48.2             52.3        52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                16.2         16.5       20.3             15.7        18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.2              1.3         1.2          1.4
tNCOt1E DISTRIBUTION
PMECENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCE?NT OF NOUSEHOLDS   26.4            ..       18.6               ..         ..         13.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1           43.4      42.8                ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5            7.5        7.3               ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7           19.2       19.3               ..         ..          16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..              86.5       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                ..       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..              50.4        54.8       103.7
ESTIMAT7D POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URRAN                                 ..           ..         ..             44.3       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..              52.4       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjuated group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
laues of che indicator mnd the  oset populated coumtry in ech group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on ivailability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and .971; and for 'lost Recent Escimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Souch Asia;  'd  Low Income (5280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);    f  1963:  /it Registered;  /h  1962;  ,i  1973;  ,j  public education only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 21 -
Annex I
DEIcglNIT  ION   OF  ICAL INDlICATORS                                                Page   3   of   6   pages
Robes   Altho-gh the data. - rson fr-  souce  generIly judged the meat authoritative and reliale, Is should  i   be noted that they may ot he inteen-
ticuly  oiprbb  becaus  of thelck of -t-dardo-d drfibti"c  so -cncpts used by diffsrest. countries in collecting  toe data. The data ev, a-tsa1-ee,
usfu  to describe orer .0 mantde, ico-te treds, and ctharsteie certals major diff--eee   ben nores
Th   djostod group noerget for eah A,dicator arc popoltio-nlghtd geomtric mens  ecldiug the esteem   cai   of tIe indicator and the  -ts  pp4elated
.onsy HiIno   rop   Isetolv  of date, group  -oage  of nil indu-tn-  for Capital curplos Ol  tp-rters ad of Indictors of Acces  to Water end E-crta
H-pot,duieg,mon   Iitiuissd Povety foe other coutry grups  re Ppaplti,on-sightsd geometrIc  -en Z.ithout -nouin  or the e-tr-m  vlues and
th,otppltd cutr.Since the coverae of coutries amon  the isdinatsr  dependsus avilmhhhlty. of dsta and is so   nfr,eoin    ih   srle
indicasoent a tim   mi  h   cne   n   eeec   rus
LAND AREA (th-ucad sq.km  3ces  otrt  Disposal (peeves ofpplaton  -oa,ura.ad rural1
Total - Total sufac  are  -op-oiog land araed inland -sters.                                  me  ofpol   tota,ubn  an-ual   evd by socets diepse   a
ugoolua  -  Wost -eet estimate Of aelc-ltur..  ans used temporaily                          percetages of their repotlve poslatilose, gErela disposal map isoldi
orpern-tip for croPs, p-eture,  -krbt and  it,,e- garden  or toI                        the  -olect-o  and disposal, stb  or abthut tr-tment, of hsnma  sorrete
lie  falbos.                                                    and sante~~~~~~-cae  by este-born   system  or the us  If pit pnielee mm  s-tlr
GNP PER CAPITA  1S$) - GNP5 per capita estimates at curren  maket pr,ices                   Poneolation-ceoeceicia  - Ppolatics birided hy number oIf pratiring physIician
ralc-lsted by c-n   --,,ersi, method as World B.no Atios (1976-79 basis);                   qolicfiedfern a medical school it unieritp le-e.
1960, 1970, eec 1(0)  data.                                                               Poosslatiu  pr Nusin  Person- Population divided by ouer of pr-t-rig main
EitchhY CbNlt5WTT115  PER CdPITA - A,oss1 crupto    f vomer-i   noroed foal  ga                                              p-enuss,o ti-a  cuse, ad assistant nuse.
a                  (coal an1,~.kd lgoe  coroen,stov-  uc sod hydvo-, eris   o   o-Pculatiosorso-pita1 hod -ttl  ura.ud rura  - Ppulation  (total, orIon,
t   c~icosctp'o   tioogr-nc   Io 'al oqoiva t per ,apoits                              anb  d  -,rsI) divi-dedh  ttebir  -opcio ubar o  hospital beds ar i1ai  in
the7mo                                                                 19b1,1"t             public and private general sod epecI 'od hopital un  cehihlinsti,,n  centers
Hr-piten ar  establishments pe--netly otoffedby hpt le-t roe physician.
POPULATIONl ANDt VIT5L tATIlTICb                                                              Entsbiiih-sett proiding prio,copoIlp c-todiia  car  se  oct iso lobd  local 
TotniPplton    i-e.   Ilci  -A,r of tolI- 1; 19M0, 1970. and                                h-spotks, hu--e, include Jbeltb and medical roter  not Pe--etly otafsed
197  tot.-                                                                              ty . phy-,iao   hot by a med-Ica  a--iat, ou-s,  udsif,, etc.) uhiLi offer
dearPpua,tioc (percent Of tonal) - htic of tban to ittal proulatue.;                    ispatient acoedtios and proito  a limited rage of medicalfaites
differen.tfdfl   iocOPuba   scn   oynfeot  -op-baiilitpy    Isi ddmsstn                                 Hr bopita1 hod - Tota  nuber of  dkiosi..s to or di-ch-rge- fr-
snoog contries;1960, 170 ,,an  197  data                                           optl  divided bythy oumi- of bed;.
P,,psInOuro PrijeoI..
PIpu,lation is yea  200  -       -oret p,,1u1sti- pr,oec,ti.n   ret endon db-d        OUING
1975 ttal ,pcpln~tOOO bytnge ant co nod obo .. ottuysd fertility                     Araeloof oshldpersons per houshold) - total, urban, sod rural -
catec  Projctuocpareotorofoe srtalty rae   opris  of th-re                   A      Zcohod     i ot"  fa     o  ofiiviul   h.c shar  l1ivig quater  sod
1-0th  --snig loc  clc0.no   t hortt h   tceoo    ith c-uty,-                          their nio menlo   Aboarder or lodger any ormo  not be icIuIded it the
ore  -`i.tt '  re Icl  sod final  lieepe  a              othiicnha-husild for statiuti-1 pen,no.-
77.' per      fr  -asnt-ro for f-rti lotp rote sIso baethree1levl                    A-erag   ume  of p-....pr oo   total, urban, and rua  -Oerg    m
noouitg dIn-oo   on fcrtli   acoo--i-g to  Iooelvladps                                f por-o,so pe  .r.e I  all urban, and ruril  -cpied  iccntira d-             lia
feupoeigp-for--ce  bach'ootyi  ties as-g-d me cf the-                         respectively.  D-ehiong   coiude su--perenet stutriad uncroPied p-0c,
sleom-  macloss of cortaitY coo f-rtillty credo for, prc;rc1t-                       Acces to  iet:city (preto   olig)-ttl   ru,adrri-Cc
ototoosry prpuintlot - In o otst:tnnrp  popolatoco there Is orgrouh       totmi, urbm, sod erral dsoliogore-p-ct-vly.
ocooc Ob  birth  -ntc  s      -uI tot -ctest  rn      n  as  the  g
otvctuerraittottun. T icI  sohi,rved coly after fertility catco           PDUCATION
trol cc o th  rcpsccech loci of tIo ct  oprod-ot-r  rate, sir                 Adju-t-O hn-lm-t Rstios
veonort.,fs.oetreiaoclh-lsn-otlp.  Thesoahiousrypopo-                         rrmrsbr-oa.  -1cndbcf-lc  -urnots,mlsu                                   -1scrci
n i-c  -:50ct-~trd  -c the hb-l  of the projected cactroio                           sot of all og`s at the primacy levln  peretar  of -eoprtIIn primay
ofthe  ,popootloc In the pear thOr, 50  tce vane of uv-ll- of fertility                 -chol-ege popolti-n; ocr-aly i-clude-  hild-o  aged 6-II pyur  but
racrtrv.anntcn.                                                                            lutdirdfcvt             Iegh   f prinory edu-tios;t  ,I .. rcrissg
Ye-s otst-onzcplttsi  e e    The peso oboe stationary population                            unvra   d tion   cr _lnt ,oy esed 111prcn   nc    ce  popls
Picleroti    iy                                                                           eodrysho -- total' nIe and femaic - Coapoted no s,-c; orocdary
"c   o  u.-eid-yr-  populotiospe   qur -  Ie-t-ot   (1   heotare) of                edu-tiooreuqo1r- sIlat  four 1     year  of ipperreddpriry.i,.otrotts,1
Per o,. ni.scvlurllr      onoe   oO                   frarciorllr                            saly of 12 be, 17 pe-r  of nge; -ocrepond-o1crrc  are ....croly
only.                                                                                        1 esldet
Pululouicn ug    itroour  Iperooti - Childr-c (h-l4 p-r)  cr;gng                             ostra   nr -o t  co--,ot of  --ordar)-Yossno n titt-  in, lute
Ut-il pers), so  rotiord)b5yea-d r  over) so p-r-tng-o of vArper                  tbic, indstia   or ocher prosage  oi,h ip-rte .ndcpeod-tly  r
"poputlco; 1901, 1970, sot 1o77 dataI.                                                      drpsrt-etu of  co-d-rylotuts.
Poss,ia5i   urvth cuteI --ronti - Octal -  r            - ecth rate-c, oct.s  mod-          FOoloii-teahccrstoic- -      ,cmy. sod  -sc-d.ry - Total  ,tod--t on-cll,o  ic
yea  popointlc   fo  1thi,  -007,ad L970-77.                                                priar   od -seconday 1nro,o dolYndd byounter   if t-h-er  in thI,or--
populotiono for 1971-61,  90-70, art 1970-I5.                                            Aitot lut-ro  rt -    (p-rrot      -otra- adults 'able to rea   odocion) s
Crude 1i0th rate  (p-r tcc-adl - locus  liv  bictto per th-uod of old-                        op-rc-ccgc of total adoep prploi-  aged It year  sodcor
year pr 9loio;     0y, 1970, and 1077 tots.
Crude Patt Yatc (per thb-rod) -  ount d-oth  per thuIu-:  ofs -pour                    CONiIJ'PrIIN
poulOic 107, 1970, art -1977 dtots                                              P---oe  Cr  (e  tfru-ad popult-o) - P--oeger onro c-pr--tt' 0c
drs   rpoutonrt  - A--r9g  oun-r  f os:ornoa  sl   ersaing les  than cight pe...ono; co-llc  ahuare-   heres d nilitap
ipec fi   friio   -at-    -11000l  f!ov-na  -oenorno-o in l96t,                     HsYlo ce-ci-er  her tburand population) - All OrIon Of receIvers fc  -oti
1910, sod 1975.                                                                          broad,ots to geo-ro   ubIvcper tho-ad vf ppusin ocldsuuoao
Feely Plu_ig - A             At-te.  o 1n (thousards)  A-Ihoo  nunt- if                  reeve     tinv it-n end or year  sh,  roitato   fral.o                       -sn
uc-pt-rv  hrb-th-te-1 device;  -d-r  n                IpDe of tivoal bs,aly              effect; oats for cornt per   io  u   r  op-ilcic  a a-tvutre
plareuo prgram                                                                           ablished licenin.9
famoly  lonninglocro  prcvnO o  on p--dojc       -- Oretng  of maricd          7TV icocimnr   Per tcunan  Pporisti-)   TV Tbr-1-rr   for b-odsi I         U, treo-sa
soe   fchild-bearing age (15-i   er)si   c   it -yoOrl-eccc                         pblc  eetbuondpupulotlos; cvuc   niesdTrvinse                                  er
ho all married nov0  In s-e  ngc group.                                                  sod Is years oh,. r-giutrotic  of TV oeto co           ffect.
Wesoe   ivlti.. (per thousand Pojola,ti-)-Is  tIe uveego-ircInti-n
FOOD AND NUTFITIO_                                                                            o  "doily genra  inters-       esaor,dfods    periodica  publi-sti-
oden of iTooriduono   ccCct  (9L9- 71. 00  -Ine  ofd "rc s- pits                           devted p-isolly t5 oreccdieg genera  ceu. itd   I   nid-re  to be   diy
nnua   prd      -to  of nil f-od t-dinoYti-o  Prductirs  -clde- icd cod                   if it speare aO leat four sine  u o-eb
feedd ar  Ii  noln    year mob.1  Crard,t0cm  coe   riaygod                             iea  uu-Ated pperCapta  or  ea-Ste   oh,1     the cunber of tiviens
'Ic.  eugarsrcti  ofcgr)nth ore edIble so- oti  ntinsud -drig  heper,ioldig  trct.ooto drv-                                                            i ea   o   o:h
e-g  o-ff- so1 ten ne  colded).  Aggregate pr-du-tuos f eac   rutep                      units.
is bood on osti-c1  -c ,g  produce  pr,ice s-ighto.
Per cop;to supply ofI   lc.u  pertf    ruirons -Compotrd fro                         !Aih  FORCE
-oegy eq,lcalot  'fort f-,o  soypl-n  -cal.lah Lc -ceotry Per capita                 Ttol labor Fort  'thousso,) - Er co.ic sIlp  -ct-  p-rss-   -inclding or-d
pro day.  Available sopplit-  -p,i-o dometic p-dr-toro, sepoti los                     forte   sd uneployed but occluding hoo..c-i-n  utudento  eto - pefi,t,- 
-eots,_at  hargecioctoob.  Slot u.ppl- nocc.ld,,animaI feed, sed~,                     I, ;ear  -scut-i   ar  not coaparoi1n
quatitics  sedn-I od   prone  g,iand Leoned di libtiht-. Requir-                    fp41,(:    re)-I Femal  kblo   force-n Percetag   of t,,to1 1a- force.
ens0crtimotedl Ip  A  batd ocpyilgclcrd   c   col                            dg9) erel                - 1labur'0Infrlg, forestry, hunting and
sct-, Op nd   -tcnt  oeid'r or , coo  nectn keteocr, bod  seighto,                     fishong aspeevetng  v,f total labor fIr-
agstondor   ttrbo       &o- ptp,lst-.", cod all1sing 10 peco...t f-c                 industry  prcet) - Lab: e force  is nin-g,  o-tru-ion, cufsot-rig no
oshnthvihldee                                                                       eetict.         tesogsaspeevetage rf total labor force
Pcro"Pit,opl   fpoee  guoprdp   -Prtei  contest of Per                                  _at-icati  gte (pev- t  - ttal  male, and fnl  -    tvpatic  or
raito  to  supply o  frY Per  ap. Nlot cooply of bard is delord so                   s-ti-ty rates or   -puted so total, mae,sd femal  mic .frc   o Fee-
shoe  Rquenocc  oeal  ccurtr 1. cc cotsblihind by USDA pctcide for a             -etng- of trtal,  ol, sod femal  pepulatio. of all ags-speti-ely;
nielsist  livonve  r hrgro of I tut  rt-oper day and 20 gEns- Of                 10,19W          ad 1975 dtat.  These se  11.00 panelopat-  eate  -efleeting
Thos  stardr1do  are l-e  than th-s  of75 grsls of total proteIn ard                  sefrom atPoa   co
Pt grams of sil Prtcio on an averng  fr- the  -urd, p-rposd by PAl                             D.comic eceneso  Rati  -  Pati  of popult-o  oder 15 and h5 and ove  to
10 ito flied World rv,d lurv.. y,tie laber forc  in age grop of 15-i4 poses
Frcpta protein supply from  hna  sod polle-  Cr -enspply Of food
Child lagos1-u ( mortaity cate llrtbouoanll    Acosol doth  por tbcueanb  PercIentg  of Private Incom   (both In cah and bind) - Ite.eled by richest
-o apr  eoup 1l, year, to ocldretIc this  pr .rup  for, soot d-c1-             5 P-rtt  richest 20 percet, poorest 20 pe~rcn, snu  p..re-t 40 pe-et
,oping.. tosrir  dots derived frra life tablec,.                                         of house~holds.
HEALtTH                                                                                   POVERTY TARI~ GRPOUPS
lfe Eopertany an Bilrth (year) - vrA-g,  ounber of year  of life                          Et-timtd Absolute Poverty ioecme Leve (11$ per capita) - urban sod ru--I
rescn    tbirth; 196C, 1970, and 1977. dots                                       Abselute povety  Isem   leelIs tha   ava   re  1elo  hobic               inimal
cefart t    it  OneIe h,usd  -A .oua  tenths of Infants under onntritiona.lly adequate diet plus  --sec ll orn.fordrequ--mets  Is not
year of age per thousad live bieoh,                                                      aff-rbable,
Arve-  to inoAter (er--t of prua e-toa    ra    n  port -                                 Etimated Rclitirs PoR ee  som  loe   si   e   c           tn   - urban and rural-
tksbor If  ,peole  ocaI, urban, sdrrl itresaloarstooclrliv poeybncc101Iue-tthird ofaeaeprcpIta
coe mater supply)i-,id- tr-tod surface  -at-r  or  nt-eteb but                           personalicm ,f the coun.try. Urhbn leve  Is dercod fro  the cora  leve
unotamisatnusat-r such no that. from  Protected b-hebl-s, springs,                        it~ adjustenfehigher ceot of living In urbanaes
-n aitary sells) as percet~o If their  -epoeti-e prpolat-.  lo                      gEtimated Ponul.tios Balvo Absolute P-nety Icoe e2                  ?rHn) -5!urbaan
an ubanae-        pbhle~ foutois so ecudgst located -t mere than                        ruaI ecn   f popoltiuc(uba  s.  rra)ub -ae'ahsolse pt
200 meter  fros 5 hous  may hr Oc... derd .. being, niti,, reaonble
acces  of thnt h-us.In rura  an ens           . -esubIo a-.a ...Id imply
thott t    he-tueofe or meber  of the thu-hi,ld Ye not har  to spend a                                                            osmrad locia1 Iota    ls
disprvtooepoet of thIc day in fetching the famIly. -ut-nneeds                                                              bosie Analysis ad P-cJetiusa  Depa-met-
August 1979



Annex I
-  22  -                         Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                         EST
1965     1970      1976      1977      1978     1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS I/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                1783.0   2354.0   2747.3   2811.4   3020.7   3187.7
Gains from Terms of Trade              539.7    242.2    185.1    413.4    362.6    389.6
Gross Domestic Income                 2322.7   2595.2   2932.4   3224.8   3383.3   3577.3
Imports                              1189.8   1017.3    913.5    999.3   1272.8   1587,3
Exports - Volume                     -670.2   -662.9   -660.5   -694.5   -754,8   -790.8
Exports - TT. Adjusted              -1209.9   -905.1   -845.6  -1107.9  -1117.4  -1180.4
Resource Cap - TT. Adjusted            -20.1    112.1      67.9   -108.6    155.4    406.9
Total Consumption                    2055.9   2239.0   2563.6   2648.2   2891.1   3152.8
Investment                             246.8    469.4    436.8    468.0    647.6    831.4
National Savings                       244.3    297.9    350.7    570.6    511.1    470.4
Domestic Savings                       266.9    357.3    368.9    576.6    492.3    424.5
GDP at Current US$                   1686.6   1873.6   2424.2   2821.3   2546.3   3313.5
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF GDP AT 1975 PRICES)
Agriculture                            0.444    0.422    0.376    0.387    0.322    0.306
Industry                              0.171    0.211    0.217    0.201    0.260    0.269
Services                              0.385    0.367    0.407    0.412    0.418    0.425
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                    65.65    56.86    95.16   119.13   125.63    144.54
Import Price Index                    36.37    41.64    74.33    74.67    84.86          96.83
Terms of Trade Index                 180.52   136.55   128.02   159.53   148.05    149.27
GDP Deflator (US$)                     94.59    79.47    88.24   100.35    84.30    103.95
Annual Average Exchange Rate            4.76      6.85    10.88    11.06    15.61        15.61
Growth Rates       1978 Share
1965-77            of GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                             3.9              100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                            12.0
Gross Domestic Income                              2.8              112.0
Imports                                          -1.4                42.1
Exports - Volume                                  0.3                25.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted                           -0.7                37.0
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted                                           5.1
Total Consumption                                  2.1               95.7
Investment                                        5.5                21.4
National Savings                                   7.3               16.9
Domestic Savings                                   6.6               16.3
GDP at Current US$                                4.4
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                                5.1
Import Price Index                                6.2
Terms of Trade Index                             -1.0
GDP Deflator (US$)                                0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-77
ICOR                                              4.37
Import Elasticity                                -0.39
Average National Savings Rate                      0.11
Marginal National Savings Rate                    0.32
Imports/GDP                                       0.44
Investment GDP                                    0.16
Resource Gap/GDP                                  n.04
1/ Components may not add up because of rounding.



- 23 -
SRI LANKA                                  Annex I
Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973     1974    1975       1976    1977    1978        1979
EST.
A C T U A L
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Exports (incl. NFS)           424.3    570.4   628.2    628.5   827.3   948.0    1143.0
2. Imports (incl. NFS)           445.3    731.7   798.8    679.0   746.2  1106.0    1537.0
3. Resource Balance              -21.0   -161.3  -170.6    -50.5    81.1  -158.0    -394.0
4. Net Factor Service Income  -17.3    -16.6   -18.4    -20.1   -15.0   -15.0             -15.0
.1 Net Interest Payments       -14.7    -14.7   -15.9    -18.6   -14.0
of which on PUB M&LT Loans-15.5    -16.5   -20.6    -23.1   -22.1
.2 Direct Investment Income   -2.7        -2.0    -2.4       -1.5    -1.1
.3 Workers Remittances (net)       .0        .0       .0        .0       .0
5. Current Transfers (net)          .2       -.2      2.8       6.6    10.5    21.9        48.0
6. Balance on current account -38.1   -178.1  -186.2    -64.0    76.6  -151.0    -361.0
7. Private Direct Investment        .5       1.3      -.2        .0     -.3      1.5       36.0
8. Grants & Grant-like Flows   13.0         42.0    77.0       58.0    60.8    57.7       124.0
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9. Disbursements                  83.8    146.3   157.4    210.4   150.1   235.7          177.0
10.Amortization                  -39.1    -52.4  -117.7   -103.8  -101.9   -43.1          -57.0
1l.Net Disbursements              44.7      93.8    39.7    106.7    48.2   192.6         120.0
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12.Disbursements                    .0        .0       .0        .0       .0     0.5          .0
13.Amortization                     .0        .0       .0        .0       .0      -           .0
14.Net Disbursements                .0        .0       .0        .0       .0     0.5          .0
15.Use of IMF Resources           -1.4      33.3    27.9       11.1    46.9    20.2        67.0
16.Short-term Capital
Transactions                  -9.8      13.2    -2.8    -22.6        6.5    18.2        -3.0
17.Capital Transactions NEI    28.2         62.3   -12.0    -31.8   -56.9    10.9         130.0
18.Change in Reserves
(- = Increase)       1/      -37.1      56.8    56.6    -57.4  -183.0   -94.0          -46.0
19.Net Foreign Exchange-
Reserves (end of period)   -11.0    -67.8  -124.4    -67.0   116.0   210.0             256.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Official Grants                21.1      37.0    76.0       53.1   104.3   123.7  )  660.0
2. Total Public M&LT Loans        92.1    233.1   285.8    221.8   167.6   324.9
.1 IBRD                           .0         .0       .0        .0       .0      .0         .0
.2 IDA                            6.0     24.0    29.5          .0    41.2    25.5        68.0
.3 Other Multilateral             2.8      2.5    30.0        8.1    49.7    83.2         42.2
.4 Governments                  58.4      72.9   196.6    140.9    69.7   192.8
.5 of which Centrally Planned
Economies 2/                  2.6      21.4    56.1        4.2      1.7    10.0
.6 Suppliers                     25.0    133.6    29.7       72.7      7.0    23.4
.7 Financial Institutions          .0        .0       .0       .0       .0       .0         .0
.8 Bonds                           .0        .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
.9 Public Loans NEI                .0        .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
3. Other M&LT Loans (where
available)                       .0        .0       .0        .0      .0       .0         .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant Element of Total
Commitments                 45.000    27.100   55.700  39.800  64.400   62.686
2. Average Interest Rate          .037       .051      .029    .040    .021        .024
3. Average Maturity (years)  23.700    13.600   28.800  20.500  35.400   29.529
1/ Net Foreign Assets: US$ Equivalent of Line 31, IFS.
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Republic of China,
North Korea, North Vietnam.
February 27, 1980                       .. figures not available



-  24  -                                       Annex I   I
Page 6 of 6 psges
SRI LANKA
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
ACTUAL
1973        1974      1975       1976       1977       1978
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)             484.8       587.3    598.0       702.3      787.0      974.5
Including Undisbursed                                  680.1       875.7    997.0   1,103.8   1,217.9   1,428.1
Public Debt Service                                    -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0         -94.9
Interest                                               -15.5       -16.5    -20.6       -23.1      -22.1      -22.8
Other M&LT Debt Service                                   .0           .0        .0         .0         .0         .0
Total Debt Service                                     -54.6       -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0         -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
Debt Service Ratio                                      12.9        12.1      22.0       20.2       15.0       10.0
Debt Service Ratio 1/                                   13.5        12.4      22.4       20.4       15.1       10.1
Debt Service/GDP                                         2.7         2.7       5.2        5.2        4.4         3.7
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                  15.7        10.0      19.0       20.0       23.5        14.7
TERMS
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                          3.2         2.8       3.4        3.3        2.8        2.3
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                            11.3        11.7      23.1       18.1       15.8        9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
Gross Disb./Imports (Incl. NFS)                         18.8        20.0      19.7       31.0       20.1       24.1
Net Transfer/Imports (Incl. NFS)                         6.6        10.6       2.4       12.3        3.5       15.4
Net Transfer/Gross Disb.                                34.9        52.9      12.1       39.7       17.4        63.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD Disb./Gross Total DItb.                             6.5         3.4       3.6        1.6        1.3          .7
Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disbursements              12.4        10.9      12.2        4.0        8.7        5.6
IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                       6.6         5.8       6.1        5.1        4.4        3.3
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 9.5        10.0      12.5       11.3       11.3       10.3
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     8.0         7.4       4.0        4.7        4.9        6.1
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service               8.1         7.5       4.2        5.0        5.2        6.5
OUTSTANDING DECEMBER 31, 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                                 AMOUNT              PERCENT
IBRD                                                                              34.3                4.4
Bank Group                                                                        89.0               11.3
Other Multilateral                                                                43.8                5.6
Governments                                                                      574.9               73.0
Of Which Centrally Planned Economies 2/                                         52.8                6.7
Suppliers                                                                         79.2               10.1
Financial Institutions                                                               .1                 .0
Bonds                                                                                .0                 .0
Public Debt NEI                                                                      .0                 .0
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                           787.0              100.0
Other Public M&LT Debt                                                               .0                 .0
Other M&LT Debt                                                                      .0                 .0
Total Public Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                      1,217.9              154.8
Total M&LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                        1,217.9              154.8
DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1978-82/Total DOD End of 1977                                  63.5
1/ Including Net Direct Investment Income
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam
Figures not available
February 27, 1980



ANNEX II
- 25 -                      Page I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                     Amount (net of
Credit                                                      cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed           72.9   66.8
504     1974   Sri Lanka        Dairy Development               9.0      6.9
666     1976   Sri Lanka        Tank Irrigation                 5.0      4.4
701     1977   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Development II              19.0    18.8
709     1977   Sri Lanka        Water Supply                    9.2      4.4
742     1977   Sri Lanka        DFC - Industrial IV             8.0      3.5
818     1978   Sri Lanka        Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)            21.0    20.2
819     1978   Sri Lanka        Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)             4.5      3.1
891     1979   Sri Lanka        Kurunegala Rural
Development                 20.0    19.6
900     1979   Sri Lanka        Road Maintenance               16.5    16.5
931     1979   Sri Lanka        Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research       15.5    15.5
942     1979   Sri Lanka        Small and Medium
Industries                  16.0    16.0
979     1980   Sri Lanka        Mahaweli Ganga
Technical Assistance         3.0      3.0
994     1980   Sri Lanka        Road Passenger Trans-
port                        53.0    53.0
Total,                                                  72.9  266.5   184.9
of which has been repaid                             40.2    -
Total now outstanding                                   32.7  266.5
Amount sold,                              3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                       32.7  266.5
Total undisbursed                                        Nil  184.9
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of February 29, 1980)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                              -      0.1      0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon             Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
1979  Cyntex                     Textiles                  1.9     .4       2.3
1979  Mikechris Industries       Polypropylene Bag          .9     .1       1.0
1980 Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon  Development Banking         -       .05       .05
Total Commitment now held by IFC               4.8      .65     5.45



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide processing equipment
to the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for supplying to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. Before proceeding with refor-
mulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate incentives to
the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and stabilizing feed
prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and the climate for
dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would focus on
what was a small component of the original project -- support to dairy co-
operatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in a
manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to
a considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads; (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and (e)
technical a5sistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the irri-
gation syltoi9, The construction program continues to lag behind the revised
schedule by about one year.  In August 1979 IDA approved the procurement of
about US$1.5 M of additional construction equipment under the Credit as a means
of improving construction progress and the quality of the work. The construc-
tion program for two of the tanks, Mahakandarawa and Mahawilachchiya, is fairly
well advanced; completion of the major part of this work is expected by the end
of 1980. Work is in the initial stages on the other three tanks. The quality
of project management has been a serious constraint to effective implementation.
A new management team is to be provided. Also, it has been agreed with the
Government that a three-member consulting team, funded under the IDA credit
or the U.K. grant, would be provided for up to two years to assist the Irriga-
tion Department in the design and supervision of the project. IDA provided a
design engineer for about six weeks during February/March 1980 to review and
assist in the design of irrigation works to be undertaken early in 1980 until
the consulting team is appointed. With these measures, project implementation
(measured both in terms of time and quality) is expected to improve signifi-
cantly. A study has been undertaken on 120 ac in the project area to train
farmers in making use of rainfall for land preparation and early cultivation,
thus conserving tank water for yala cultivation. This technical assistance
program is to improve water management and water use efficiencies in the
project area and appears to be successful. The T&V system of agricultural
extension is not yet operating effectively. However, the Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture is taking a special interest in the program and is confident
that he can mace it successful.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes on 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone, together
with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in the form
of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and processing
facilities for 71,000 acres and improved agricultural extension services for
106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with Canada, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC. Considerable
progress has been achieved in the construction of the irrigation system and
the outlook for completing the project about 1-1/2 to 2 years ahead of schedule



- 28 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
remains good. The settlement of many areas has begun. A total of about
2,600 farms out of a total of about 13,500 had been settled by early 1980 and
settlement of all areas is scheduled for completion by late 1980. On-farm
development work has been completed for about 1,000 farms but is not keeping
pace with settlement. The completion of social infrastructure is lagging far
behind other project components but steps are being taken to accelerate this
work. Water issues were started in November 1979 in some of the recently
settled project areas and water charges have been initiated in adjoining
areas of System H completed previously (a total of about Rs 120,000 had been
collected by mid-November 1979). A feeling of optimism is prevalent among
project staff. Quality control measures and the quality of completed works
continue to improve but are still not up to desired levels. Much of the work
is only partially completed and considerable cleanup remains in areas where
construction work is essentially complete. The agricultural extension program
is adversely affected by inadequate staffing and morale and discipline of
extension staff are low. The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, is personally
taking steps to rectify these conditions. A farmer training program (organized
in part of System H) is achieving excellent results and will be expanded over
the total area. Disbursements are still far behind schedule but are expected
to increase significantly with the approval of several requests for withdrawal
by mid-1980.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977; Effective
Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes, intro-
ducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during the past year,
particularly in procurement. Thirty three contracts have been awarded,
resulting in a commitment of about US$13 million out of the credits.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$7.8 million have been authorized.



ANNEX II
Page 5
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which .vld increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards have been
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Foun-
dations for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. Implementation of settlement aspects of the project
(settler selection, transfer of non-citizen labor to other estates, and land
allocation) has just started. This is the most sensitive and potentially
difficult part of the project.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will also strengthen agri-
cultural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6
fertilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a
viable agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments
will be complemented by investments in transportation, health, education,
water supply and rural electrification. Subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks have been signed and the project unit set up. A super-
vision mission reviewed the project in August, 1979 and reported good
progress.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project would also provide plant and equipment for workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants have
recently been appointed and started their work.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so
as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would
have two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing
services. Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in
the National Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made to
small and medium industries by commercial banks and the Development Finance
Corporation. The technical services component would be implemented by the
Industrial Development Board, Department of Small Industry, Department of



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7
Textile Industries, and the National Institute of Management, and directed at
specific subsectors - rubber products, light engineering, subcontracting
exchanges, handlooms, coir products, and rice milling,
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million;
not yet effective
The project is to provide technical assistance for: (i) preparation
of a reconnaissance-level study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus
Mahaweli Gan$a water to develop land in three alternative areas in order to
select the beat plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) ongoing review
of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and
preparation of final designs and tender documents for construction of civil
works and social infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin;
and (iii) support for other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program. Training of local staff is included throughout
the project. An EEC Special Action Credit of US$2.0 million equivalent has
been provided to assist in financing consultantst services for the ongoing
review of the designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin
Canal and the preparation of final design and tender documents for System C.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million; not yet
effective.
The project would improve the availability and reliability of public
road passenger transportation services throughout Sri Lanka. It would intro-
duce improved maintenance standards, thereby improving fuel efficiency. It
also aims to improve the financial condition of Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board and Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), and progressively reduce and by
1983 eliminate Government subsidies for public bus operations. The project
provides for the purchase of 2,100 bus chassis, which will be assembled at
the assembly plant in Sri Lanka. It also includes improvements of bus main-
tenance facilities and practices in RTBs, traffic engineering measures to
improve bus flows on roads, and technical assistance and training for the
execution of the project and institution building.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page I
SRI LANKA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
1 year
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Posts and Telecommunications Department of the
Government of Sri Lanka.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
March 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 28, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
April 10, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



m 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Government shall create, by December 31, 1981,
a separate Telecommunications Department with
adequate powers, satisfactory to the Association,
for management of telecommunications services (para
44) and set up within it, a Fundamental Planning
V,nit by PeceXer 31, 1982 (para 46);
(b) the Government shall maintain the telecommunications
tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of
return not less than 15% on revalued average net
fixed telecommunications assets in operation during
1980-84, and determine by June 30, 1984 a rate of
return satisfactory to IDA for the period after
December 31, 1984 (para 49);
(c) the Government shall raise, by September 30, 1980,
the collection rate of international telephone and
telex calls to at least the level of the accounting
rate (para 50); and
(d) the Government will introduce new accounting
routines in PTD commencing January 1, 1981
(para 51).






IBRD 14824
EO°'                                                    81e                                                     FEBRUARY 1980
SRI LANKA                                        10'
NATIONAL TRUNK NETWORK
Microwave Radio Systems and Trunk Automatic. Exchonges
MICROWAVE RADIO SYSTfMS$
- XISTING
-       t  7 <\_,UNDER INSTALLATION (TO SE COMMISSIONED IN 19801
TO BE INSTALLED UNDER THE IDA PROJECT
TO BE UPGRADED UNDER THE IDA PROJECT
i Ki nnoc  chl    1     .                     *       EXISTING REPfATERS
f       PROPOSED REPEATERS
TRUNKTA[ITOMTIC EXCHANGES.
/___                               *       AT TERA T ZRT  CENTERS IPROPOSED)
1N.^>                                   )            /  //                      %                       *       AT SECONDARY CENTERS tEXISTINGI
A*       T SECONDARY CENTERS (FUTURE)
>  g  Thunukkqli / G                                                 ITELEPHONE AREA 8DUNDARIES:
TERTIARY AREA
Tole                                          $\ )                            XSECONDARY AREA
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Mod~kanda
0          g    ~~~Vvluniym     /                               \
I~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ I___                                             TriDcOmRIIR
/ 2    (   1   1   1    9    Bay of Berngal
Anradhapura
Nochchl  garc               / ama  -~
lao', an~~~~~~utal,
0  cy e a n                                              I                  /I,neg/Ia 
| 6'   X                  i                     0\/                    ej~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~                        ~~unnerS G._u   
g       -  \ \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~t tica~>ttcloa
The  l azeflod               hilow the                                           \       /;'i
80,nd,r1,SS8.e.On                                           EthogolaPonadn)o
W#d8.Y,R.,,I8. dAVY.,. ally ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     I  ehalind
Oc e aZ n)\                                    Kurunegalof   rImun,                   1                                         a      ,-X
/AKISTAN;  >->g,CHlNA  ( eg )  t /              --r             -Amporl |/
I~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~              . (\   I                 B-ul                                                           7-()     
-COl8 OV8            A2ssowella0L 4hl Hill    I0 K T   J
0    \   \   I    \~~>    Hatton        uuk TamuTula                   55M11,
bt$OI,fllOaOttO ~- - M' i  avdrwe
db   'vWk tr UhiOh rr   Irt.\                                                                                 -/
WTh, ft* .V   oat r~ _o  r,\|
PAKISTAr,oN         RI LK '                                                                      :,rJCH N
I~   ~ N 11 I                                                       IA 
RJS   I N D I A   C                                  1           /Nk                                     <            I r7 Ci i CJ    27   0 Ki . . ...
JI RlUKA                                                ( 
I.d                      80                                                       .                                                       .         _



