CIRCULATING COPY
I L "En  Cu"'?     Y                Document of      TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
- J            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATING COPY
JO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. P-1676a-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 15, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Baht
US$1.00        =    B 19.8 /a
B 1.00         =    US$0.05
B 1,000,000    =    US$50,505
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
/a   prevailing rate at time of preparation of Appraisal Report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of US$5 million to help
finance the Livestock Development Project. The loan would be made on
standard Third Window terms of 25 years, including seven years of grace,
with interest at 4-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Thailand:  Current Economic Prospects and
Selected Development Issues" (924-TH) was distributed on November 20, 1975
(M75-799) to the Executive Directors and the members of th.e Consultative
Group for Thailand. Basic data are given in Annex I.
Political Situation
3.        In the period following the overthrow of the military goverrment of
field Marshalls Thanom and Prapass in October 1973, pent-up social pressures
were released, new ideas aired, and previously unrepresented social groups -
farmers, students, laborers and the small business community - staged various
forms of protest in support of their interests. The new Government under
Prime Minister Sanya Dhamasakdi maintained the free enterprise orientation
of the past but was more responsive to the claims of lower income groups
than the previous government. It ran the day-to-day affairs of the country
efficiently and passed a number of significant new laws tackling major prob-
lems in the areas of land tenure, agricultural marketing, and agricultural
credit. Through this legislation, steps have been taken to create a Farm-
er's Aid Fund and Marketing Organization; to increase agricultural credit;
and to lay the legal basis for land consolidation, land reform and rent
control.
4.        A new constitution was adopted in October 1974 and elections were
held in January 1975. In March, a coalition led by Kukrit Pramoj formed a
government and won a vote of confidence by a narrow margin on a platform
which called for the correction of social injustices and inequities that
exist between rural and urban areas and between different income classes,
and for improving relations with neighboring countries. In August, the
coalition passed its second major political hurdle by securing parlia-
mentary approval for its FY76 budget. However, in view of apparent diffi-
culties in forming a stable majority in a Parliament where 22 parties were
represented, Kukrit's Government resigned recently and new elections have
been called for April 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The Kukrit Government has taken a number of significant measures
directed towards raising rural incomes and improving the lot of the urban
poor. Two major steps to improve the position of rural areas are (i) the
Tambon program, which transfers significant tax revenue and expenditure
power to local village councils, and (ii) the recently announced policy of
guaranteeing a minimum paddy price, which will help to maintain the recent
relative improvement in rural incomes and provide a price incentive for
orderly intensification of production. In addition, in order to reduce
past inequities in the treatment of different income classes, the Govern-
ment is increasing social expenditures aimed at low income groups and is
attempting to raise the share of the more progressive direct taxes in total
tax revenue.
6.        The international environment altered dramatically soon after es-
tablishment of the Kukrit Government with changes in the political control
of Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam. In adjusting to these changes the
Government has secured the agreement of the United States to withdraw its
remaining forces in Thailand within one year, has established and shown
its intention to consolidate diplomatic and trade relations with China and
Cambodia, has received diplomatic delegations from South Vietnam and North
Vietnam and has exercised restraint in responding to diplomatic incidents
while pursuing a normalization of its relations with Laos.
Current Economic Situation
7.        Thailand's real GDP expanded at an average rate of 8 percent
during the 1960s with agriculture growing by 5-1/2 percent per year;
prices were virtually stable; open unemployment was minimal; and the
balance of payments was in surplus. Recent years have been more diffi-
cult, however. The growth rate between 1970-74 slowed to just under 6
percent as a result of rapid shifts in export demand, stagnation of pub-
lic investment, and adverse weather and supply constraints in agriculture.
8.        Largely as a result of the worldwide boom in commodity prices,
Thailand's export earnings increased by an average of 36 percent per year from
1972 to 1974. This increase in export earnings caused a rapid expansion of
demand, which pulled the economy out of the 1971-72 recession; private
investment grew strongly in both 1973 and 1974, reaching 18 percent of GNP
in the latter year. Although the Government adopted an appropriately de-
flationary fiscal policy in FY73 and FY74, there was rapid inflation as
domestic commodity prices rose with those on the international market. Since
mid-1974, however, the strong stimulus from the export sector has faded as
a result of falling commodity prices and weakened demand overseas. Also,
cost-push inflation from the very large increase in import prices for some
manufactured products drew purchasing power out of the economy and the slower
growth of demand, coupled with economic and political uncertainty, retarded
private investment. To revive the growth of the economy, the Government
adopted an expansionary budget in FY75. Under all these influences the
economy has probably grown by 5 percent in real terms in 1975. With more
slowly rising import prices and declining export prices, the rate of infla-
tion has declined from 20 percent in 1974 to 5 percent in 1975.



-3-
Public Expenditures
9.        As a result of the deflationary policy of 1973-74, public expendi-
tures declined in real terms; public capital expenditures were severely
restrained. The share of national resources going into public investment
declined steadily from the peak of 7.8 percent of GDP reached in 1971 to
5.1 percent in 1974, a level lower than at any time since the early 1960s.
10.       This declining trend has been reversed by the stimulative budgets
of FY75 and FY76, and government expenditures as a percentage of GDP are
expected to rise by 60 percent over these two years. Real capital expenditures
are expected to almost double from $650 million in FY74 to $1300 million in
FY76. These increases reflect a strong upward trend in public enterprises'
investments, the higher investment by local authorities resulting from the
Tambon revenue sharing program, and increased expenditures in provinces
outside the Central Plain, notably in the Northeast Region to which the Gov-
ernment is giving particular emphasis. There will be a continuing need
to maintain a high rate of government spending if economic growth is to be
maintained along with a continuing effort to reduce income inequalities.
11.       Faced with growing demands on its budget, the Government in the
summer of 1975 announced new policy guidelines for the financing of state
enterprises.  The new policy seeks to reduce the public enterprises    re-
liance on the Government budget, both for current and capital transfers, by
encouraging them to generate more internal funds and to borrow directly
from the market. This policy will only achieve its objective, however,
if the Government allows public enterprises sufficient flexibility in
determining their prices. The increasing investments expected of state
enterprises and the diversification of their sources of financing under-
line the need for a financial plan that covers the entire public sector
rather than just the central government.
Balance of Payments Prospects
12.       Thailand's balance of payments performance in recent years has
been far better than expected. Although the terms of trade worsened through-
out 1974, increasing export volume, lower import volume and inflows of Lor-
eign capital combined to produce a strong balance of payments performance.
At the end of the year, after a record $482 million increase, reserves
reached S1,564 million and equalled six months of imports. The performance
in 1975 has not been as impressive as further deterioration in the terms of
trade, weak overseas demand for manufacturing products, and declining serv-
ice receipts have sharply increased the current account deficit. With
private capital inflows falling from 1974 levels because of the uncertain
investment climate, reserves are likely to have declined by SIOO-200 million
in 1975 but s:ill exceeded four months' imports.
13.       The turn-around in the balance of payments from 1974 to 1975
reflects a transition from a period of rapid growth in export earnings led by
unusually high commodity prices to a period of less spectacular increases
in export earnings generated hv volume growth, and declining terms of trade



- 4 -
caused by continually rising import prices. These trends are likely to
continue through the balance of this decade. In the short term (1976-77)
greater public borrowing and some recovery in private investment is expected
to improve the capital account, but is not likely to offset the resource gap
fully. In the future there could be a tendency for import requirements to
grow faster than export earnings as the terms of trade stabilize below the
1973-74 level. Consequently, continued efforts will be necessary to promote
non-Lraditional exports and expand the inflow of external capital.
Structural Problems
14.       To achieve its development objectives in the years ahead,
Thailand must aim at a higher rate of growth than the 5 percent growth likely
in 1974-76. Given the rapid expansion of the labor force that is expected
for at least the next 15 years and the progressive exhaustion of the supply
of free land suitable for agriculture, employment creation is becoming a
major problem. Without the rapid intensification of agricultural production
and expansion of employment in manufacturing through policies specifically
directed to job creation, rural underemployment will become much more
serious than it is now, and substantial unemployment may emerge in urban
areas. On the basis of past performance and present potential, the Thai
economy appears capable of achieving a 5 percent growth rate in agriculture
and a 10-12 percent growth rate in industry; together these rates would
generate overall GDP growth of 8-10 percent per year in 1977-81. Achieving
such growth will, however, require the mobilization of large amounts of
domestic and foreign investment funds.
15.       A preliminary assessment of internal and external financing possi-
bilities suggests that over the period 1977-81 a public sector investment
program of about $7,500 million (1974 prices), or eighty percent above that
attained in the preceding five years, could be feasible provided both do-
mestic and foreign resources are tapped fully and institutional constraints
to preparing and implementing such a large program are overcome. Domestic
resources to finance such an investment program should be 50 percent greater
in real terms than in the 1972-76 period. In terms of commitments, public
external borrowing of about $4,000 million would be required in 1977-81 as
compared to $1,300 million in the previous five-year period. Even with the
level of external borrowing envisioned, external capital will finance only
about one-quarter of public investment.
16.       The Government's priorities are shifting towards increased
investment in the agricultural and social sectors, which have a comparatively
low foreign exchange component and, if the Bank is to provide an appropriate
volume of support to Thailand's development program, it will find it neces-
sary to finance a portion of local expenditures on some projects. The
Government will need to find other bilateral sources of finance (if cons-
traints in project preparation are overcome) to help meet the economy's
foreign exchange requirements and carry out the public investment program.



-5-
Thailand's creditworthiness and borrowing capacity have improved
substantially in recent years. As a result of rapid increases in export
earnings, the total debt service ratio dropped by one-third from about 18
percent in 1971 to less than 11 percent in 1974. Although, the debt service
ratio is expected to increase over the next five years, it is likely to
remain below 15 percent.
fourth Development Plan
18.       Recent events have complicated long-term planning.    MXfanaging the
immediate economic problems caused by inflation and then recession, and
changes in the political situation and in the leadership of key agencies
have of necessity diverted energy and attention from longer-term concerns.
The situation has now clarified enough so that serious work should begin
as a matter of urgency on longer-term economic plans. Although preliminary
work on :he Fourth Plan has begun, determined effort would be required to
prepare a detailed plan ready for implementation on October 1, 1976,when
the Plan period is scheduled to begin.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
9.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
31 loans amounting to $708.1 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($164.1 million)
and power ($166.0 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power
and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for
water supply ($55 million), education ($21.3 million), industry ($13 million)
and telecommunications ($37 million). In addition, Thailand has received
IDA credits of $19.5 million for education and $12.5 million for irrigation
improvement. In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out in
accordance with expectations; however, Credit 369-TIl (Third Education Proj-
ect) is behind schedule because of administrative problems and lengthy bid-
ding procedures; under Loan 898-TH (Fourth Railway Project), the borrower is
facing major financial difficulties. Under Loan 870-TH (Fifth Ilighway Proj-
ect) some contracts had been terminated due to escalation provisions, which
proved inadequate in thie face of unprecedented inflation, and new bidding
is now in progress. Loan 702-TH (Bangkok Water Supply Project) is exper-
iencing delays in bidding and award of tunnel contracts. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
November 30, 1975, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.    In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broad range of agriculture
development, rural works and infrastructure, family planning, education
and small and medium-scale industries would account for about two-thirds
of the proposed program. Increasingly, projects are selected to spread
development benefits outside the Central Plain area, and one of the main



- 6 -
functions of the Bank's Resident Regional Mission in Bangkok is to assist
the Government in developing projects which will achieve this. Our readiness
to finance some local costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank to
participate more fully in projects in agriculture, the social sectors and
other projects having significant social benefits.
21.       In FY76, about 90%, by dollar amounts, of projects proposed for
Bank lending are expected to benefit the countryside, where most low income
people live. In addition to the proposed Livestock Development Project and
the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project which is also before the
Executive Directors, negotiations have been invited for a rubber replanting
project in the southern region and for a telecommunications project which
would extend telephone services to some rural areas not previously connected.
An education project, designed to benefit the rural population is also
planned for presentation to the Executive Directors in the next few months.
An industrial estates project to assist the location of small and medium-scale
industry outside of Bangkok has been deferred because of legal and adminis-
trative problems delaying acquisition of site. An assessment of the finan-
cial implications of a possible countrywide rural electrification program
is presently being undertaken.
22.       On November 30, 1975, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding aruounted to 'US$304.2 million, represeniting about 22% of the
country's estimated total external debt and about 47% of public external
debt. This exposure is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (about 4.2% of GDP in 1975). In addition, although
the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five
years, the Bank Group's exposure is expected to decline rapidly to about
16% of total external debt and 26% of total public external debt. Servicing
of the Bank debt in 1980 is projected to account for about 8.2% in the total
debt service and about 32% of the country's public debt service; this com-
pares with 8.4% and 43% respectively in 1975.
23.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance Cor-
poration of Thailand totalling $380,000; besides two loans to and an invest-
ment in the Siam Cement group totalling $32.08 million. IFC has also made
a loan of $300,000 to Concrete Products Ltd. Prospects for other IFC opera-
tions are reasonably good; potential projects include a pulp and paper proj-
ect based on bamboo and bagasse, a zinc mining and refinery project, and
the development of privately sponsored industrial estates.
PART III - NORTHEAST AGRICULTURAL AND THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
24.       As Thailand's economy developed and diversified over the last
decade, agriculture's share of GDP declined from 44 percent to about 30
percent. However, agriculture still employs three--fourths of the labor
force and agricultural products provide about two-thirds ($1,000 million)
of merchandise export earnings.



-7-
25.       Average crop yields are low in Thailand; fertilizer consumption
is among the lowest in Asia, improved seed technology has been adopted
only to a limited extent, and double cropping has been extended only to
a small portion of the irrigated area. The potential for intensifying
production is large but steps must be taken to realize this potential
through upland crop development, expansion of irrigation, improvement
in cultivation practices, greater production of improved high yielding
seed varieties and, specifically in Northeast Thailand, arresting the
decline in soil fertility and rehabilitating exhausted soils.
The Northeast Region
26.       In the Northeast Region, agriculture generates nearly half the
gross regional product and some 85-90 percent of total employment. The
area has, however, historically lagged behind the other regions in terms
of economic development and rural living standards. In 1974, the region
had one-third of the country's population but only 16 percent of gross
national product. The cash income of most farmers remains below that
of farmers in other regions. The average household money income, includ-
ing non-farm income, of farmers in the Northeast in 1970 (the latest year
for which data are available) was only $331, as compared to $1,192 in the
Central Region. The serious handicaps of the Northeast Region limiting
its economic opportunities are the generally low fertility of soils, un-
certain rainfall and inadequate irrigation, lagging agricultural research
and paucity of proven technology, the isolation of much of the region from
commercial markets, and poor rural infrastructure.
27.       Most of the population of the Northeast lives in small villages,
19,000-20,000 of which dot the Region. The typical village contains about
70-100 households and crops are raised on owner-operated plots of about
three hectares, located in the vicinity. The villages vary considerably in
their level of development and access to potable water and electricity and to
essential services such as medical, education and agricultural extension.
Farm mechanization has developed slowly and access to all-weather roads
is limited. The condition of existing earth tracks often preclude the
marketing of crops during the rainy season. The proposed Northeast Thailand
Rural Development Project is aimed at helping redress problems of rural
infrastructure.
28.       Rice, covering over 80 percent of the Region's cultivable area,
almost all rainfed, is the main crop; and is grown mainly for regional con-
sumption. Increased production can be achieved only by raising yields,
since virtually all of the land suitable for rice has been developed. Un-
certain and inadequate rainfall jeopardizes this crop and climatic risks
generally preclude the use of known high yielding varieties which would also
require larger fertilizer inputs. However, there is scope for raising yields
by improved cultural practices, the use of better quality seeds and a wider
spread of improved native rice varieties. A project to develop and promote
teciniques for improved rainfed rice production is included in the EDA-
financed Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project (Credit 461-T!!).



29.       Mfuch of the area unsuited for rice has been planted to upland
crops; the most significant expansion had been in the cultivation of
!;eaaf and cassava. Both are important sources of cash income to the Region's
economy, and kenaf alone recorded export earnings of $50 million in 1973.
Cassava can withstand climate and rainfall extremes, including long periods
of draught. Prices for these crops have been financially attractive over
tne past few years and considerable additional land has been brought under
cultivation as a result. These upland crops, which provide the most prom-
ising means the farmers have for adding to their incomes, have fostered
a transition from a predominantly subsistence farm economy based on rice
to a semi-commercial farm economy. However, the soils of the Region are
shallow and sandy with poor water retention capacity and moderate to poor
fertility; continuous cropping of both kenaf and cassava rapidly exhausts
available soil nutrients, and natural regeneration often requires five
years or longer of fallow to reach even modest fertility levels. Further-
more, lack of applied research in the past seriously limits the recommenda-
tions which can be made at the present time. Large areas lying fallow,
the shifting cultivation characteristic of the Region, together with the
significant proportion of paddy land frequently lying idle because of inade-
quate or untimely rainfall are important sources of forage. However, the
native grasses which dominate in natural regeneration are low in yield and
nutritive value.
30.       Results from work at Khon Kaen University 1/ and from a Thai/New
Zealand pasture research project in the Northeast have shown that it is
possible to grow in the Region high quality legume-based pastures capable
of sustaining good levels of animal production throughout the year by
oversowing with the annual legume Townsville Stylo (Stylosanthes humulis).
This low cost technique does not need cultivation nor inputs of fertilizers
to achieve satisfactory results. With minimal amounts of phosphate and
sulphur fertilizers the improvement is often dramatic. These findings
confirm the experience in tropical Australia where the technique is now
the basis for low cost improvement in large areas climatically and eclologi-
cally similar to Northeast Thailand. There is little doubt that the wide-
spread application of this simple technique in the Region could have a
dramatic effect on animal production. In addition, this legume could
well prove to be a simple, low cost means of stabilizing and increasing
production from the dryland cropping areas by including it as a fertility/
soil texture building ley in a cropping rotation. Under the Colombo Plan,
studies on this are being made at Khon Kaen University by an Australian
pasture/crop specialist working in collaboration with local farmers in a
number of villages in the Khon Kaen area. This concept is gaining wide-
spread acceptance by the village farmers, but there is need for further
studies in the area of soil improvement techniques using legumes.
1/   Khon Kaen is a major city in the Northeast.



-9-
The LIvestock Sector
31.       In Thailand, livestock accounts for 13 percent of the gross value
of agricultural production. Most farm families have cattle and buffalo and
these account for most of the rural draft power for cultivation and in many
cases transportation. Their importance to agricultural production therefore
greatly exceeds the value of meat and milk. The number of work animals
is estimated at 5.5 million cattle and 7.2 million buffalo with an average
working life of five to six years. About 45 percent of these are found
in the Northeast Region. Even the smallest holdings normally have at least
one buffalo, and 70 percent of all farm holdings have cattle. While ownership
is distinct, the village herd is generally managed as a unit and is usually
grazed in one area. In the wet season, livestock are kept from cropped
areas; common scrubland and fallow lands being the principal pasture areas.
After the harvest, standing stubble and growth on bunds and field margins
are the principal forage. Distinct periods of feed stress occur at the end
of the wet season, prior to harvest and toward the end of the dry season
when the total fodder stock is diminished and regrowth is negligible.
32.       Buffalos are of the swamp variety and most of the cattle are of
Zebu origin. Productivity is low in terms of weaning rates (45 percent for
cattle and 35 percent for buffalos) and of slaughter weight (350 kg for
cattle and 500 kg for buffalo) and is mainly attributable to low genetic po-
tential, the poor volume and nutritive quality of forage, and widespread
occurence of debilitating diseases. Foot and mItouLh disease, in particular,
is endemic in Thailand, except in the Southern region. Present Government
programs in livestock upgrading, disease control and animal husbandry are
inadequate to overcome these problems. Hence, the growth of livestock pro-
duction has been only about 2.5 percent per year, a rate which is insuf-
ficient to satisfy the increasing demand for livestock products brought about
by the population growth and income increase.
33.       The Department of Livestock Development (DLD) in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives has livestock breeding stations, artificial
insemination and veterinary centers and forage crop stations located stra-
tegically throughout the country. Its two most significant programs have
been the DLD integrated village dairy production program at Nong Po near
Bangkok and the village cattle improvement scheme. This latter scheme, the
;;loaned bull program", is aimed at upgrading the local cattle in the North-
east by crossing indigenous cows with Brahman bulls; the program extends to
130 village farmers groups with an average herd size of about 100 head.
This local and Brahman cross is much superior to its native parent, both
for draft purposes and meat production and is readily accepted by the village
owners and an expansion of the program is planned. However, in this program
as well as in disease control and artificial insemination shortage of staff
and resources has proved a major constraint in reaching even limited goals.
34.       Marketing.  The primary market for cattle and buffalo is for
draft purposes. Many communities in the Northeast are known throughout
Thailand for the quality of their draught animals, and buyers travel to these
villages to buy from individual farmers. Suppliers in the Northeast resist
organized marketing on the grounds that prices are generally higher when



- 10 -
purchases are made at the farm. Slaughter animals, officially those
over specified age limits and of lesser draft value, are bought from
farmers by butchers. Hfiddlemen are only significant in the assembly of
shipments for the Bangkok market. Virtually all meat sales are conducted
in open air markets within hours of slaughter. Most slaughtering is done
illegally, in part because of poor licensed facilities and to save fees
charged by these facilities, but also in part to avoid inspection which
would reveal that many animals do not comply with age restrictions. Price
controls are generally ineffective and are frequently adjusted to keep pace
with market conditions.
35.       Dairy Industry.   Dairying in Thailand is based almost entirely on
small privately-owned herds of three to ten cows. Traditional producers
stall feed their cattle under or near the farm house. Concentrate feeding
is a common practice although all ingredients are domestically made by-
products. Most milk producers belong to, and market through, six major
cooperatives. The fluid milk market is small, about 108 tons per day, but
steady growth is evident, fostered by increasing demand. Fresh milk pro-
duction at present is about 31 tons per day exclusive of on-farm consumption.
Dairy imports have increased in fresh milk equivalent terms, from 160,000
tons in 1965 to 315,000 tons in 1973; the Government considers these
products a major import substitution priority.
36.       The major thrust of dairy development in Thailand has been in
the Northeast, where the Dairy Promotion Organization (DPO) now operates
a 1,700 cow farm and a processing plant with a current throughput of 11
tons of fresh milk per day. A Land Settlement Department colony of 120
private farms (4 ha each) supplies a substantial share of the dairy's raw
milk. DPO also operates a farmers' training program and an artificial
insemination service. DPO has within its staff an excellent level of
technical expertise which could be used to great advantage in training
extension workers and other public sector agents engaged in dairy develop-
ment.
37.       Growth Prospects.   In the Third Plan (1972-76) the livestock
growth rate was projected at 3.4 percent per year. This desirable target
has not been achieved todate and increased efforts will be required in
the following areas if the growth rate, slightly in excess of the population
growth, is to be realized: the basic stock of Zebu origin should be up-
graded; the yields and nutritive value of native pastures increased, and
animal health and management improved. The project would help meet these
goals by applying techniques proven, on a large scale, in Northeast Thailand.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
38.       A Bank Agricultural Sector Survey in 1971 recommended a livestock
project. The project was identified by a Bank reconnaissance/identification
mission in early 1973, and prepared by a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission
which visited Thailand in September 1973. A Bank Mission appraised the proj-
ect in October/November 1974. Negotiations took place in Washington from
October 13 to October 16, 1975. The government delegation was led by H.E.
Ambassador Anand Panyarachun and assisted by Dr. Amnuay Viravan, Under
Secretary of State for Finance, Khun Kraisri Chatikavanij of Ministry of
Finance, Dr. Siri Subharngkasen, Director General of the Department of Livestock
Development (DLD) and Dr. Suntharaporn Ratnadilck Na Phuket, Regional Project
Manager.
Project Description
39.       The project would be carried out primarily in about 640 villages
in Northeast Thailand. These intensive development areas, spread over
the Region, have been selected on the basis of farmers' interest, cattle
concentrations and proximity to breeding stations, which would also be
centers for technical assistance. The project would upgrade the quality
and productivity of livestock through programs to increase the yields and
nutritive value of village pastures, improve animal husbandry practices,
and expand cross breeding programs, expand vaccine production, improve di-
sease control procedures, and develop livestock related research. Disease
control and cross-breeding components of the program would also extend to
locations outside the intensive development areas as part of ongoing national
programs. In addition, the project would increase the number of trained
dairy personnel and good quality milk cows. The expected implementation
period of the project is five years. The project consists of:
(a) Pasture Development - The establishment of the legume
Townsville stylo on about 64,700 ha within the in-
tensive development area and another 18,300 ha in other
areas in support of ongoing pasture development
activities. Seed would be distributed initially in
the intensive area villages for broadcast sowing of
33 ha (200 rai) of fallow and permanently grazed lands
per village in the first year, and 67 ha (400 rai) per
village in the third year. Sowing sites will be
selected on the basis of heavy grazing pressure,
lesser bush cover, easy reach of village stock, and
soil permeability and drainage.



- 1 2 -
(b) Forage Seed Production - During project implementation,
35 metric tons of forage seeds (of which 60 tons of Townsville
stylo seeds) would be produced yearly. Seed production
is being developed over 335 ha on three DLD forage stations
in the Region. An additional 150 ha would be developed
primarily for the production and testing of other pasture
species at eight other forage stations in the Region.
A Central Seed Processing and Storage Unit would be
established at the Project Headquarters, Tha Phra, near
Khon Kaen.
(c) Livestock Improvement - The project would expand DLD's
ongoing "loaned bull" program by 455 Brahman bulls during
the project period. Of DLD's 15 breeding stations in the
Region, 5 stations and 2 sub-stations would be further
developed. These stations would operate to provide
breeding stock, to collect and supply semen and, together
with one additional station, to coordinate field research
in assigned intensive areas.
(d) Livestock Breeding - The national artificial insemination
program of DLD conducted by 18 centers located in North and
Northeast Thailand would be expanded by an additional 23
centers and the recruitment and training of 135 inseminators,
initially concentrated in the intensive development areas.
Under bilateral financing by the Netherlands Government,
the semen collection center at Tha Phra and the central
laboratory and storage facility in Bangkok are being
expanded. In five years the number of cows serviced
annually would increase from the current 8,000 to about
80,000.
(e) Import of Cattle and Semen - To support the expanded research
and production programs of the breeding stations in the
Northeast, and to meet the short-term requirement of the
"loaned bull" and artificial insemination programs, cattle
and semen imports would be required. Six hundred cows and
three hundred bulls of the Brahman breed would be imported
in lots of 150 in the first two years of the project under
well-defined and closely scrutinized specifications. Two
hundred bulls would be used in the "loaned bull' program,
and the balance of the cattle would go to selected breeding
stations. Total annual semen requirements would be met
from domestic sources after the sixth year, but about
144,000 doses of imported semen would be required initially
of which about 80,000 doses would be Holstein Friesian (for
dairy cattle improvement) and 64,000 doses, Brahman.
To avoid depletion of DLD purebred Brahman stock, no
purebred Brahman stock purchased and produced under the
Project would be sold during the project period without
Bank approval, except those culled or castrated in the
interest of sound herd management.



- 13 -
(f) Vaccine Production and Use - Vaccine production facilities
of DLD's two laboratories situated north of Bangkok would be
expanded to increase annual output by about 3.2 million doses.
A review of Thailand's disease control system would be under-
taken to improve the effectiveness of available vaccines in
reducing the occurence of disease. Expansion of foot-and-
month vaccine production to 1.6 million doses (60% increase)
annually is being secured through bilateral assistance from
the Japanese Government.
(g) Assistance to the Dairy Industry - Under the project, training
facilities would be provided to enable the Dairy Promotion
Organization to undertake training of staff of the Land
Settlement Department which assists cooperatives and their
members in dairy activities. Improved technical competence
on the part of government field staff would have immediate
benfits for existing dairy farmers and processors and would
be essential for future dairy development. To ensure the
commercial viability of the Dairy Promotion Organization
and thereby safeguard its usefulness as a demonstration and
training unit, experienced staff would be appointed to key
positions and a suitable accounting system introduced.
(h) Technical Assistance - To assist in project execution, six
internationally recruited advisors in pasture development,
pasture seed production and processing, livestock research,
disease control, vaccine production and dairy training would
be engaged for periods varying between three months to two
years (total 71 man-months) on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
(i) Studies - A feasibility study for an expanded dairying
program would be carried out under the project.
Details are provided in the report "Appraisal of the Livestock Development
Project! (No. 800-Ti. of October 28, 1975) which is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The Appraisal Report was prepared prior to
the availability of Third Window resources; the use of Third Window terms,
however, does not affect the analysis. A loan and project summary is
provided in Annex III.
Project Coordination and Staff Training
40.       DLD is headed by a Director General and is organized into
technical divisions. Breeding stations to be improved under the project
are among those in the Region operated by the Animal Breeding Division.
Forage stations to be used for pasture seed production and research are
operated by the Animal Nutrition and ForageCrop Division. Vaccine pro-
duction would be the responsibility of the Animal Biological Products
Division, and the artificial insemination program would be carried out
by the Artificial Insemination Division. Overall project management would



- 14 -
be vested in the Director General of DLD. Day-to-day management would be
delegated to Division Chiefs.
41.       Field development in the Northeast, including pastures, seed
production, breeding station development and the "loaned Bull" program
would be supervised by a Regional Project Coordinator based at Tha Phra,
Khon Kaen, who would be directly responsible to the Director General, DLD.
The Project Coordinator would supervise a Senior Livestock Officer and a
Senior Pasture Officer who would in turn oversee research and production
within their respective subject areas on project stations. They would also
supervise the work of the Livestock and Pasture Development Officers,
each assigned to one of the eight breeding stations located strategically
throughout the intensive development area. The Livestock and Pasture
Development Officers would supervise the work of about 60 Field Development
Officers who would be the major and regular field link through whom project
assistance would be channeled to farmers. These field officers would visit
each project unit an average of twice a week. All project staff would have
an educational background appropriate for their duties and, in addition,
the Field Development Officers would receive six weeks of training in pasture
development and animal husbandry; moreover, those performing artificial
inseminations would be provided with specific training in this field.
Project Costs and Financing
42.       Total project cost is estimated to be about $11.5 million net of
duties. The Bank loan of $5 million would finance foreign exchange costs
amounting to 44 percent of total project costs. The loan would be disbursed
during the first five years of project development. During this period, the
Government would contribute $6.5 million equivalent to meet the local cur-
rency requirements.
43.       The project cost estimates include a 10 percent physical contin-
gency on all items except technical assistance and operating costs. Expected
price increases were estimated as follows: (a) equipment, machinery and
vehicles, 1975-12 percent; 1976-10 percent; 1977 and thereafter - 8 percent;
(b) other costs, 1975-16 percent; 1976-14 percent; 1977 and thereafter -
12 percent. Details are provided in Annex III.
44.       The proposed loan includes an amount of $450,000 to finance the
foreign exchange component of the technical assistance included in the
project. The Government of New Zealand, however, has agreed to provide such
technical assistance on a grant basis and it is negotiating with the Govern-
ment of Thailand on the matter. Upon satisfactory completion of these
negotiations, the amount provided for technical assistance in the proposed
project would be reallocated to other project-related activities, which are
being discussed with the Government of Thailand.
Procurement
45.       Procurement of machinery, equipment and vehicles ($1.25 million)
would be subject to international competitive bidding pursuant to Bank



- 15 -
guidelines except for an estimated 10 percent of such purchases ($150,000)
which would be small and not suitable for bulking, in which case procurement
would be conducted in accordance with normal government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. For the purchase of cattle and frozen semen, bids
would be invited from at least three countries free of foot-and-mouth di-
sease ($1.90 million). Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank ($0.75 million). Foreign contractors
would be eligible to bid. Internationally recruited advisors would be
selected from short lists approved by the Bank, or at governments' discretion,
approved individually by the Bank ($0.30 million). Terms of reference for
the dairy study would be subject to Bank approval ($0.05 million). Research
and study tours would require approval by the Director General, DLD ($0.08
million). Incremental operating costs ($4.4 million) would be controlled by
normal government staffing and procurement procedures, as would the import
of small quantities of pasture seed should this become necessary.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100 percent of the
c.i.f., cost of directly imported machinery, equipment, vehicles, cattle,
frozen semen, and pasture seed, or the ex-factory price (net of taxes) of
machinery, equipment and vehicles of local manufacture, and at the rate
of 65 percent of total expenditure for imported machinery, equipment and
vehicles procured locally.   Disbursement for buildings would be 25% of
total costs. Disbursement for the services of foreign advisors and con-
sultants would equal 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs. One hundred
percent of the total cost of research and study tours would be disbursed
against certified statement of expenditure. Withdrawals may be made for
expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975 of building construction and
technical assistance not exceeding $25,000. Any funds remaining in the
loan account upon completion of the project would be used to finance addi-
tional works and or expansion of project activities after agreement between
the Government and the Bank.
Project Cost Recovery
47.       Pasture seed costs under the project would be very small per bene-
ficiary and the accrual of benefits under common grazirng practices is such
that it is very difficult to recover costs directly.
48.       A fee structure would be introduced for artificial insemination
services and necessary adjustments made to charges presently made for
"loaned bull' services under the project. Such fee structure and adjust-
ments would ensure recovery of as large a portion of the costs of providing -
these services as possible, keeping in view the need to maintain incentives
to the farmer, his capacity to pay and the year in which these services
have been extended to such farmer. It has been agreed that such fees and
charges should be adequate to recover at least 50 percent of the costs of
services provided, from each recipient, by the end of the third year of
recipient's participation. (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement.)



- 16 -
Benefits
49.       The proposed project would substantially contribute toward:
(a) increasing the productivity of cattle and buffalo
in the project area;
(b) increasing the numbers of trained personnel and good
dairy cattle for an expanding dairy industry;
(c) arresting the decline of soil fertility on lands
sown to the legume Townsville stylo; and, con-
sequently,
(d) intensifying agricultural production in the project
area and increasing the cash income of large numbers
of village farmers.
50.       Full development in intensive areas would take place in the tenth
year of the project, resulting in an incremental value of $1.6 million in
animal sales and herd values. Incremental forage production values in
areas outside the intensive areas would amount to almost $1 million per year
from the sixth year of the project. In addition to these benefits, the
market value of Brahman crosses at full project development would be ap-
proximately $7.4 million. Other benefits from the project would include:
(a) a 60 percent increase in vaccine production which,
together with improved disease control measures
arising from project studies, are expected to reduce
mortality by at least 10-15 percent, and improve
animal productivity;
(b) research efforts, resulting in improved pasture manage-
ment, crossbreeding, calving rates and supplemental
feeding;
(c) initial research on buffalo which should identify potential
improvements in the productivity of buffalo; and
(d)  strengthening of DPO and an improvement in extension
assistance to cooperative dairy operations through-
out Thailand. About 30,000 crossbred dairy cows are
expected to be added to the national dairy herd over
an eight-year period replacing a similar number of less
productive Zebu cows that would otherwise be produced.
51.       Ouantified benefits in terms of additional livestock sales are
expected to accrue to about 171,000 families with the following distribu-
tion: 95,000 families, average $90 per year (70 percent over present
income); 40,000 families, $33 per year (25 percent over present income);
and 36,000 families, S8 per year (6 percent over present income). At least
110,000 of these families are among the poorest 40% of Thailand's population.



- 17 -
52.       The economic rate of return for quantified benefits, related to
investment accounting for 85 percent of total project costs, is expected to
be 68%.  This high rate of return is due in part because the project is built
on a number of costly infrastructure and research efforts carried out in
earlier years.
Effects on Environment
53.       Townsville stylo is being introduced in the Northeast to increase
carrying capacity of the land. However it will have the added advantages
of supplementing the nitrogen requirements for crop production, reducing the
tendency for over-grazing and thus will contribute to soil conservation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The special feature described in paragraph 48 of the Report is
reflected in Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for
Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President






Page 1 of 3 pages
OOUNThT DATA- THAIIAND
ARKA                                                 POPULATION                                       ST
51,00  os                                           39.7 mi11ion (mid-1973)                           '  fIdudr-tvt.
359 Per hok   flrdudrcutvto
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Rference Countries
Thailand                         ines ea
ON? PER CAPITA U5$ (ATIAS BASIS) /                                  .              220 /a          220 Ia         310 Ia      2,320J /o
DNCOPRAPHIIC
Cr-ude iWr-th rate (per thouand)                                  16             13 /b           19 /b           28         19.2 /c
Crude death rate (per thousand)131Th2                                                                                        66T
Infant mortality rate (Per thousand live births)                  13           0iii 8W           1                          ip0 .6 7
Life expecta..ay at birth (years)                                 56             59              59             65             72-
Oross reprodoiction rateg                                         ..3.2 /o                       3.3 /b         2.5 /6         .
Population growth rate                                           3.0            3.1 7W          3.0C)7W        2.2   d         .1
Population growth rate -urban                                     .               577             177            6              377
Age anrunnture (percent. )
0-lIt                                                          13             15              iJIa           10I         21.0 /c
15-6;:                                                          51             52              517 6a          7 7W       66.  7W
65 ann -lor                                                      3              3               3T.            377         7.2 7W
Age dependency ratio I                                           0.9            0.9             0.9 7-a        0   7.0 5       .1 7W
F-_Feoic dependency -ti. I/L                                      1.0            1.1             1.5 -          1.1 -         o.6 -
Urban population mas peroent of total                             12 Ic          13 Ia           32 If          0Li           72 /b
Family Planning:   No. of acoeptors cumulative (thoua.)          ..550                          109
No. of users (% of married women)              ..10                             0
Totallbor forc     (th ous.an ds)                             13,700         16,700          12,300         10,500 lao    53,200 /k
Paroentage employed in agriculture                              82             79              51             L0 7a       19.1
Percentage unmployad                                            ...7 Ia                                      1.5 7W        1.~
INCOM DISTRIBUTION
Pretonatinal income remiveed by highest 5%                ...25 I.c                                      15 I.c
Percent of national Income reoaived by highest 20%                ...51 /I.0                                    37Int
Peroant of national income received by lawest 20%                 ...                               /lo 0 
Percent of national income received by loweot 4C%                 ...12 7W                                       21  0.
MCSTIBUHTION CF LAND OWNERSHWP
5owned by top I05 of own-are                                    ...                             .28
% ooed by smalleot 10% of ownesre.                                              ..                              2
Pouato   per physician                                       8,6oo          7,250 In        2,710 /ci0     2,050 /cr        60/
Population par nursing person                                  1,200 Is       2,950 Ic        1,970   c      1,360 /or       317 Li
Population per hospital bed                                    1,320 77         920 7W          950 /1       1,920            60 I
Per capita calorie s,upply as % of requirements                   95 /o          025             65            103           106
Per capita protein supply, total (gramo per dayL                  176 /0I        52              15             65            76
Cf which, animal and pulse                                     .               17A/            22 /1          19 /1,1       L
Death rate 1-!, years             . 7...7                                                             I7                         o,
EDU CATICON
Adjus_Ted /8 primary school enrollment ratio                       79            6,3I/C         112 /v         iO.           103
Adjusted  ! secondary school enrollment ratio                     12             13 77           L 1577         -1           90
Tears of achooling provided, first and second leesl                12            12              io             12            1.2
Vocational enrollment as % of sac, school enrollment              19             12 /1w.         1O0  r         15 Ic         21
Adult literacy rots %                                            ...72/11K                                      9177          99 /c
Average No. of parsons per room (urban)                          ...                             .2.7                        1.0 /i
Peeccott fof  cupled units without piped water                    ...66I                                 a      90/ob o
Acces  tsectricity (me 9 of total ppulatIon)                     ..17                            23 7W          5 S
Percent of   ura.l populati   concocted to slectricity            ..13                             6 Icn        30 
CONSUM?TON
IG-ro reeivr.per 1000 population                                6             93 Is          1,6 /a         12. /         656 /
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                  2              7 77            9s            92 7a7      117 T.
Electric poser consumption (kwh p.c.)                              23           161 77           255 11         392I7      3.309 7W
Newsprint conauoption p.c. kgj per yrae                          0.7~            1.5 77.         0.7 37           7 77.     i9.6 T.
Notes: Figures refer either no the lotesi periodo or to               anonut of enviroomental temperature, body weig9ta, and
the latent yearn.   Leteot periodo refer in principle to              distribution by age end sex of national populationa.
the year  1956-60 or 1966-70; the 1oteat ye.,o in pr-in-          /6  Protein standards (raqoirseente) for all countries as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               linhed by USDA Enonoein H.aearoh S.riein   provide for a .  lu
/I  The Per Capita GNP colmate io at -akot priceo for                 allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, sasd DO gramsa of
years otic- than 1960, calculated by the aane convernion          animal aced pulse. protein, of which 10 grams ohould be wameal
technique on the 1972 World honk Atl.e,                           protein.   Thme setandards are, aomemht lmowr than thoase of 75
12 Average number of doughters per woena, of reproductive              p-ams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein am an
age.                                                              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
z,)  Populution growth rates are for the d...dne  -dndlg jfl           Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                                 7Some studies have suggeated that crods Anth rates of child-e
/1z Ratio of populatlin tinder Ii and 65 and over to popo1o-          ages 1 through 4 nay he used as a first approximation indea of
Lion of ageu 15-6L for oge dpe.don-Y roti     and to lator      malnutrition.
force of agen 15-61 for ...nonnC dep-ndecy ratio.             /8  Peroentage enrolld of corre.spendiag population of school age
F. PO raforeone vtLodacdo reproot. poyiololgi-ai r-                 ao defined for each country.
qoilr...eotn fo- -ornl oCtnoty eod t,olti, takin.g
/c   1977;    /b  l961-70o 7'M cet-Lro ;  /C   7071.   /dj  1960-72t   en   Mwiitininlitice;   If  Fo, tho ofoinof ~rbut, sec
lil ie-ogrophlc Ycoriock 1973, p. 127;    (a, Seoul nity and n-no    P.icltc  of 5,0Cc or coenool,oe            I     -i-to
("Sn  ) ooin  30000or oce  obobtooo;  i  Estimatel;  (a    -Iolde peren-o seei,g noch for tics -r- tLneo
30,0/00oli   -det n t oily:(aPeennl                             o Leront       eoi5nonf         :    coJt
-ooee,  o  u.  work-g it:  loancn        /n   09,65;  /n   1961-66;   /    196n';  /c   1967;   /n  Date,.   ,:o   io
clttonrefrlto -pnblccito indot     inconde tn,cedocoti-o at Line p sus-cecondar          level   -/x   I,  on' -  a o~"
yve-n o         --oer   Inz  befittiLj t-ott oolbe        /s1tndec         nude;     lob   Wotec pipeltnn         I:dr ctoi
of la    tg
c~ontt; tin:  da~tt, anAnis--t-:::         n t   :4   ro    net o      i   nc    fccr. o  gr::-l t....liy-:on-oo   tc,



ANh I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECLWIG9C INO4CATORS
GROSS NATIONlAL PRODCT IN 1974                                                                                      ANNUAL RAZZ Or ClNt
C1. c-mstant prices)
uss MillAon         7.                                               A    c            1965-70             1970-74
GNP at Market Prices                   13,550         100.0                                               7.2                 8.5                 6.2
Cross Domestic InvstenC                3,400           25.1                                              14.4                15.6                 3.0
Gross Nattonal Saving                  3,388           25.0                                              14.6                11.5                 9.2
Current Account SI.nce                    -12            .1
Exports of Goods, N5S                  3.140           23.2                                              10.6                 7.1                10.7
Imports of Good., NPS                  3,425           25.3                                              11.1                12.3                 4.0
OU7PUT, LABOR YORrE AND
PRODUCIIVtTY IN 1974
Value Added /                          Lbor Force                                V.A. Per Worker-
US6$ illion      _                      Miien                1                    U1
AgricuIture                           4,311            31.8                   13.8              76.6                   312              41.4
IndusLry                              4,059            30.0                    1.3               7.2                 3,122             414.6
Services                              5,180            38.2                    2.9               16.1                1,786             237.2
Vnallocated
TotClfAverage          13,550          100 0                   180               1000                                   1000
GOVERYMENT FnNANCE 3/
General Government                                                 Ceetral Gover,nmt
us 1TMillton       7. of GOP                                      USfF I&             % of GDP
1974        1974       1972-74                                     1974       1974         1972-74
Current Receipts                       2,190       17.4         16.5                                     1,955       15.4           14.2
Current Expenditure                   12457        II.S        1L.. 12,385                                           11.0           12.0
C:rrent Scrplus                         733         5.8          3.8                                       550      4.4              2.1
Capital Expenditures                    655         3.2          6.1                                       345        2.7            3.7
Extermel Assistance (net)                76          .6           .5                                         6         .1             .1
MONEY, CREDIO AND FRICES
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973   1974
(Billion. of Baht outstanding and period)
Money and Quasi Money                 40.9    46.2    53.7    66.6    81.9    98.5
Rank Credit to Central Goverstent (ne3) 8.5   13.0    19.6    27.0    29.6    25.6
Bask Credit to Private Sector         22.9    27.9    30.8    34.6    49.4    66.7
(Percentages or lndex Numbers)
Mosey and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP     31.7    34.1    36.9    41.0    38.2    37.3
GDP Deflator (1962 s 100)             114.2  112.6   111.5   12A.5   144.8   124.9
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Deflator                                -1.6     1.0     8.7   20.2    20.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (nota     52.9    50.7    37.7     9.6   -13.6
Bank Credir to Private tS,tor               21.    10.7    12.2    42.9    35.1
Note:  Up tO 1973 conrersion rate to dollars is 1 20.8; far 1973, 8 20.4; for 1974, 3 20,0.  1974 data based on preliminary figures
which will be updated by the forthcoeing ecmnomic mission.
It Value edded at current narket prices.
2/ Tenrative estimates based on 1970 census.
2l Thai Fiscal Years ending September 30 of calendar yeor show.n
E) Estimates for CDP during fiscal year t vere derived by adding 1/4 of GOP at calendar year t-I to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.
Not applicable.
Not *vailableo



AN1NEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE, PAYMENTS. AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972    1973     1974    1975-                                       US$ Million           %
US$ Million
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,532    2,085    3,141  3,247     Rice                                   293              16.8
oiporcs of Goods, NFS             1,627   2,239     3,423  3,825     Rubber                                  188             10,8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -95    -15-;      Y8    -578     Corn (maize)                           182              10.6
tapioca products                       130               7.5
Interest payments (net)                5       7        32  ) -27     Tin (metal)                            111               6.4
Other Factor Payments (net)          -21      -28      -37  )         Sugar                                   102              1,9
Workers' Remittances                   .                              Kenaf and jute                          49               2.8
Not Transfers 1                       59      146      275    129     All other commodities                  673              38.9
Cturrent Balance                     -52      -29      -12   -476                          Total           1,728             100.0
Direcc Foreign Investment (Net)21     56      67        83     70     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      309     265       506   -3aA                                              US$ Million
Amortization                       221      262      265    211     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 518
Subtotal                            88       3       241    173     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   632
Capital Grants       3/                .       .        ,             Total outstanding & disbursed               1,150
Other Capital (net) -                 33       42       13      9
Other Items n.e.i. 4/                 67       30      157     26     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974 4
increase in Reserves (+)             192     113       482   -198
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,052   1,295     1,858            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 2.0
Net Reserves (end year)              969    1,082    1,564  1,366     Non-Guaranteed Private nebt                   8.7
Total outstanding & disbursed               10.7
Fuels and Related Materials
Imports                            150     229      629     712
of which:petroleum                 149     228       627    710     IBRD/IDA LENDING, Nov,smbpr 30. 1975 (U6    Million)
Exports                             12       18       14     30
of which:petroleum                  12      18        14     30                                               IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      Outstanding & Disbursed                  300.L        3 r
Undisbursed                              283.1       2!'.2
Through Julv 1973                                                     Outstand'ing incl. Undisbursed                       32.0
USS 1.00 = A 20.8
$ 1.00 = US5 0.048
Sinice Jul, 1973
USS 1.00 = $ 20.0
7 1.00 = USS 0.05
Note:   Balance of payments projections are not yet available as the balance of payments outlook is currently being reviewed with
the Government.
1/ Includes official and private transfers.
27/ Equity capital only.
3/ Tncludes short-term public and private capital and portfolio investment.
4/ Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments, and errors and omissions.
5/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Not Applicable.
e/ Estimate



ANNEX II
Page  1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of November 30, 1975)
$ Million Amount
Loan or                                                      (Less Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower              Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty Loans fully disbursed                              309.6   -          -
514-TH      1967     Kingdom of Thailand   Sirikit Dam    26.0    -        0.2 /a
Irrigation
702-TH      1970    Port Authority of      Ports          12.5    -        2.5
Thailand
790-TH      1971     Electricity Genera-   Power          27.0    -        3.6
rating Authority of
Thailand
822-TH       1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education      15.4    -       13.6
864-TH       1972    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-   37.0    -       24.6
tion of Thailand       cations
870-TH      1972     Kingdom of Thailand   National       28.6    -       13.1
Highways
369-TH       1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Education       -     19.5     19.1
379-TH      1973     Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation      -      5.5      2.6
898-TH       1973    State Railway         Railways       15.0    -        8.1
461-TH      1974     Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation      -      7.0      6.5
977-TH       1974    Electricity Genera-   Power          75.0    -       65.1
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH       1974    Industrial Finance    Industry       12.0    -        4.2
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Metropolitan Water-    Water Supply   55.0    -      53.1
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation     95.0    -      95.0
Total                                          708.1   32.0   311.3
of which has been repaid                     124.6    -
Total now outstanding                          583.5   32.0
Amount sold /b                   65.2
of which has been repaid       24.9          40.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 543.2   32.0
Total undisbursed                              283.1   28.2
/a   This loan was closed on December 26, 1975, and undisbursed amount of
$0.17 million cancelled.
/b   Of which US$41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page  2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of November 30, 1975)
$ million Amount
Year          Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and     Concrete Products      0.30    -        0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance        Industrial Finance      -     0.19      0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials        18.33/'a 3.75    22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                      0.19      0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
Total gross commitments                         18.63   4.13     22.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        15.80    1.70    17.50
Total commitments, fully disbursed               2.83   2.43      5.26
/a   In addition, a loan of $10 million was signed on December 10, 1975,
and was fully disbursed as of December 31, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 514-TH    Sirikit Dam Project; $26 Million Loan of September 19. 1967;
Effective Date: November 1, 1967: Closing Date: original,
June 30, 1973; current, October 31, 1975 2/
The works under this project have been completed, with the closure
of the dam being carried out on schedule in June 1971. Substantial increases
in the principal civil works contract (+41%), which resulted from unforeseen
adverse foundation conditions, have been largely compensated by savings on
other items and the total cost of the project is estimated at $78 million,
as against $76 million at appraisal (+2.5%O). The current closing date is
October 31, 1975, to allow for settlement of some minor claims.
Loan 702-TH    Third Bangkok Port Prolect; $12.5 Million Loan of August 6,
1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970; Closing Date: original,
July 31, 1974; current, July 31, 1976
Construction, presently about 85% completed, is expected to be
finished by April 1976. Construction work on the project which consists of
four deep-water and two lighterage berths, together with transit sheds and
ancillary facilities is proceeding satisfactorily, but somewhat behind the
original schedule. Two berths were commissioned in late 1975, and two more are
expected to be commissioned early in 1976. The civil engineering work was
placed on a fixed-price contract and the only significant cost overruns will be
those caused by changes in foreign exchange rates and the Go-ernment's decision
to compensate contractors on fixed-price contracts for overall increases of
construction costs after June 197h.   The Closing Date has been extended from
July 31, 1974 to July 31, 1976.   The financial situation of the Port Authority
is very sound.
Loan 790-Ti    South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; $27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Effective Date: January 27. 1972;
Closing Date: Nlovember 30, 1976
Project execution is on schedule. Costs have increased by about
13% due to changes in currency exchange rates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.
2/   The loan has been closed effective December 26, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 822-TH    Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Project implementation has been delayed by about 22 months due to
late appointment of campus master planner, late Cabinet approval of Executive
Architects' fees and, more recently, delays by the Executive Architects in
preparing adequate plans and specifications on schedule. These delays have
now been overcome and construction is expected to be tendered during the last
quarter of 1975, commence in early 1976 and be completed by mid-1978. Con-
tracts for equioment, valued at US$1.6 million, were awarded in August 1975.
Implementation of the technical assistance program is well underway. Project
costs are expected to exceed the appraisal estimate by about US$8 million due
to cost overruns for civil works. Overruns will be met by the Government.
Disbursements, currently US$1.8 million, are expected to reach US$2.5 mil-
lion by the end of FY76 and US$7.5 million by the end of FY77.
Loan 864-TH    Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The oroiect is now moving forward satisfactorily and it should be
practicable for the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT)to overcome some
of the delays which occurred at the outset. Procurement action is well
advanced and equipment deliveries are in progress. Increased prices have
required TOT to rephase its project financing and to redistribute some for-
eign costs between Loan 864-TH and the Japanese EXIM Bank credit. Re-alloca-
tion of Loan 864-TH haE been approved. New tariffs have come into effect in
September 1975 and are estimated to generate 20% more revenues annually which
will help TOT finance its program.
Loan 870-TH    Fifth Highways Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Works under the project have been divided in nine contracts of
which two have been completed and four are expected to be completed shortly,
only slightly behind schedule. The remaining three contracts have been
terminated because the rapid increase in cost led to financial problems for
the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the contracts
provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while costs from
materials, labor and equipment, and spare parts also escalated rapidly.
These contracts are being re-bid to complete the works. In spite of these
difficulties the project is likely to be completed no more than one year
beyond the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 369-TH  Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Project implementation remains about 14 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by inexperienced project management, inadequate
staffing of Ministry of Education design offices, late recruitment of
technical assistance and increased construction costs for civil works,
which necessitated lengthy procedures for budget approvals. Recently,
adequate provisions were made to meet the expected cost overruns and
noticeable progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical
assistance. About a third of the total civil works contracts and 20% of
the total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Six technical
assistance experts are in place and 30 Thais have been sent abroad for train-
ing under the project. Project costs are now estimated at US$50.6 million,
30% above the appraisal estimate. Actual disbursements reflect delayed im-
plementation; they amount to only US$0.14 million, but are expected to reach
US$2.0 million by the end of FY76.
Credit 379-TH Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical execution of the project is proceeding on schedule.
A program of strengthening agricultural extension services in the project
by training of progressive farmers as extension workers has been established.
Loan 898-iT    Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
Due to initial delay in procurement, the project is about one year
behind schedule. However, orders have now been placed for all items except
for rails required for track renewals. The estimated total cost of the
project has increased from $69.3 million to $85.6 million (+23.5%) of which
$5.6 million is required in foreign exchange. To accomodate this increase
the Bank has agreed to reallocate the proceeds of the loan to cover the
full foreign exchange costs of all items, except rails, to be procured out
of the loan and the Government has agreed to provide the Railway with $7.5
million to finance the costs of rails; the Government will meet the debt
service payments on this amount until the Railway is financially able to
do so. Due to inaction by past governments to allow the Railway to raise
tariffs to meet substantial increases in fuel costs and wages the Railway
failed to earn any rate of return in 1973/74. In July 1975, the Government
approved selective tariff increases and in September 1975, authorized a 15%
increase in passenger fares. The Railway is now preparing an implementation
scnedule and forecasts of the effects of these increases on its earnings posi-
tion.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 461-TH Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation began about six months later than scheduled
because of delays in final approval of the consultant's contract. There have
been further delays in equipment procurements due to establishment of new legal
procedures for government approval of contract documents. Despite these delays,
good progress was made in the 1975/76 working season on rehabilitation and im-
provement of the main canal systems, and in the setting up of agricultural ex-
tension services.
Loan 977-TH    Ban Chao Nen Hydro-Electric Projects; $75 million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is at an early stage and is proceeding
satisfactorily. The civil works contractor commenced work in March 1974,
and nas mobilized equipment on site, constructed camp facilities and begun
the diversion tunnels. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand's
(EGAT) short-term financial position may become difficult because of a
committed expansion program based on a growth rate of electricity demand
increase now unlikely to be achieved following a tariff increase of 60%
and energy conservation measures to combat the fuel crisis. The position
will be mitigated by EGAT's ability to raise bonds in the local market.
During FY74, B 450 million ($22 million) of 5-year bonds were raised at
9-1/2% and 9%. Although estimated operating income declined for FY74, EGAT
has met its convenanted 30% contribution to construction from internal cash
generation for the four years ended FY September 1974.
Loan 992-TH    Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory; as of November 30, 1975 total disbursements amounted
to $7.8 million. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's operations
and financial condition has continued to be satisfactory.
Loan 1021-TH   Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date:  December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 m3/day capacity,
transmission tunnels, and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project
financed by Asia Development Bank (ADB) would include trunk mains, dis-
tribution pipes, tubewells and purchase of water meters. Construction
work on the project has not commenced. Most of the contracts have



ANNEX II
Page 7
been tendered but bid evaluation and contract award, which have yet to
be finalized in several cases, have generally taken upto six months
longer than scheduled. The project is presently estimated to be about
12 months behind schedule and to cost about 10% more than the April 1974
forecasts.
Loan 1149-TH   Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30. 1983
The loan became effective on October 31, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND - LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                           The Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiaries:                      The Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives -
(a) Office of the Under Secretary
(b) The Department of Livestock Development
(c) The Dairy Promotion Organization
Amount:                             $5.0 million
Terms:                              Standard Third Window terms.
Project Description:                The project consists of establishing the
Towrnsville stylo on about 83,000 hectares
of fallow and permanent grazing lands
in intensive development areas covering
about 640 villages. These areas located
throughout the Northeast Region have
been selected on the basis of farmer
interest, cattle concentrations and
proximity of breeding stations that would
be centers of technical assistance.
Production of about 85 metric tons of
forage seed annually, of which 60 tons
would be Townsville stylo. Research and
production facilities of five Livestock
Development Department breeding stations
and the two substations in the Northeast
would be expanded. To meet the immediate
needs of the "loaned bull" and artificial
insemination programs, it is proposed
to import 300 Brahman bulls and 600
Brahman cows for research and production
and to expand the "loaned bull" program
by 455 bulls at full development. To
meet the projected expansion of the
artificial insemination program to service
72,000 additional cows annually by the
fifth year, it is proposed to import



ANNEX III
Page 2
144,000 doses of Brabman and holstein-
friesian semen.  For improving disease
control, expanded facilities for vaccine
production would be established. Tech-
nical assistance to the project would
include advisors in pasture development,
seed production and processing, livestock
research, disease control and dairy train-
ing. Study tours, short seminars and
refresher courses are planned. The
training facilities for the Dairy Pro-
motion Organization would be strength-
ened and technical assistance would be
provided toward assessment of future
dairy potential and in the preparation of
a dairy project.
Estimated Cost:                     ------$ Thousand-------            %
Local    Foreign    Total     Foreign Exchange
Seed Production                  218       123       341          36
Development of Breeding
Stations                     1,609     1,891     3,500          54
AI Program                     1,286     1,095     2,381          46
Intensive Area
Development Staff
(Pasture Development)          798       172        970          18
Vaccine Production               562       289       851          34
Dairy Training                   13          7        20          36
Technical Assistance              55       415       470
Base Cost Estimate             4,541     3,992     8,533
Physical Contingency             215       183       398
Price Contingency              1,724       825     2,549
TOTAL PROJECT COST             6,480     5,000    11,480          44



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:                     -$ M4illion---------
Local     Foreign      Total    % of Total
Bank                             -        5.00       5.00          44
Government                      6.48        -        6.48          56
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan                                    ------US$'000-------
Fiscal Year     Annual      Cumulative
1976         450             450
1977       1,505           1,995
1978       1,550           3,505
1979         885           4,390
1980         420           4,810
1981         190           5,000
Procurement Arrangements:           Procurement of machinery, equipment and
vehicles would be subject to international
competitive bidding pursuant to Bank
guidelines ($1.25 million) except for an
estimated 10% of such purchases which
w*ould be small and not suitable for bulk-
ing in which case procurement would be
conducted in accordance with normal Govern-
ment procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank. For the purchase of cattle
and frozen semen, bids would be invited
from at least three countries free of foot
and mouth disease ($1.90 million). Civil
works contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank ($0.75
million). Foreign contractors would be
eligible to bid. Internationally recruited
advisors would be selected from short lists
approved by the Bank, or at Government's
discretion, approved individually by the
Bank ($0.30 million). Terms of reference
for the Dairy study would be subject to
Bank approval ($0.05 million). Research
and study tours would require approval by.
the Director General, Livestock Development
Department ($0.08 million). Incremental
operating costs ($4.4 million) would be
controlled by normal government staffing
and procurement procedures, as would the
import of small quantities of pasture
seed should this become necessary. Up to
$25,000 would be provided for retroactive



ANNEX III
Page 4
financing of technical assistance and
minor construction.
Consultants and Technical           Consultants would be engaged for a total
Assistance:                    of 71 man-months under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to assist (a)
the Office of the Under Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives, for
assessment of dairy potential and prepar-
ation of a dairy project; (b) the Dairy
Promotion Organization to strengthen its
training facilities; and (c) the Livestock
Development Department in pasture develop-
ment, seed production and processing, live-
stock research and disease control and
vaccine production.
Economic Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return for quantified
benefits and related costs over the 10 year
project period is expected to be 68%.
Appraisal Report:                   800-TH of October 28, 1975.



IBRD 11534R
1040                 ~~~~~~~~November 1975
*t _(  (r  L A O S                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T H A I L A N D   Nvm ri7
Co.\  AE     -20                               LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               200
_  AREAQ    
.OF MAP1                                                 *    Forage stations
TH AtLAND                                             A     Breeding stations
{ 08ng hkok
:-. ngkok  KHMER                                          Roads
REPUBLIC                                    I --I-Railways
/ --: t g@-L tf 0' 4^\                             ......... Rivers
...... ->( rre J tord . .      .      .      .       -     -- Changwat (province) boundaries
-                                                            Is  *   lnternational boundaries
0  20  40  60  80  10,  120  140  160
: . - -   .:S>s, ,,<                                  Kilometers
0    20   40   60    80   100
- -  E r.Eul '1S   .  L A  O  S   g-            ~~~~~~~~~~~Miles
>  (s0&   ~~~~~10'2 
-18  g  ~/1->''                                >                  188
/ ( NLo~~~~ei                                              NaKnLong>\
"Tha Ph    Yu- AadonT,i  |  )
To I,Ch\ q  , /A / Nochoengon
. e g X , . 9 L ~~~~~A                                            O S
K o
A,siT                          b       s   on ti  a  d
/tA          {s'~~~Tha   h                     -    '"    ,,,
s a~~~~~ml noseetacptneb h
-16                1  (                               1       World Bank a f t            106
xY/ 7rP~~~akChong 
o7      >TabsKwang<                                 -t        _     _            _
14'       To Chochoengsoo  
t/ ~KHMER REPUBLIC
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~The boundaries shown on this map do not
\                        b~~~~~~~~~~~~mply endorsmemnt or acceptanee by the
102      !                         104    World Bank and its affiliate&  106  . 



