Report No. 800-TH                                                       FILE  COP
Thailand                                                                                        r
Appraisal of the
Livestock Development Project
October 28, 1975
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -   Baht (B)19.8
B 1.00         -   US$0.05
US$1 million   *    B 19.8 million
B 1 million    -   US$50,505
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
I Rai         -    0.16 ha
-    0.41 aC
ABBREVIATIONS
AI  -   Artificial Insemination
BAAC -   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DPO  -   Dairy Promotion Organization
LDD  -   Livestock Development Department
RTC  -    Royal Thai Government



-2-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.  Cattle Marketing
2.   The Dairy Industry
Table 1: Status of Dairy Cooperatives
2: Imports of Dairy Products into Thailand
3:  DPO - Milk Processing - September 1974
4:  DPO - Balance Sheets October 1971 - September 1973
5:  DPO - Monthly Cost Projections - Ultra - High
Temperature Sterilizer
3.   Pasture Development Program
Table 1:  Annual Stylo Seed Utilization
2: Summary of Investment Costs
3: Central Mobile Unit - Tha Phra - Operating Expenses
4: Project Field Development - Operating Expenses
5: Pasture Research Unit - Operating
Appendix 1
4.   Pasture Seed Production
Table 1: Investment Costs
2:  Chiengyven & Huoi Luong - Operating Expenses
3: Eight Forage Stations - Additional Operating Expenses
4: Other Species - Additional Operating Expenses
5: Tha Phra Treatment Storage & Distribution Unit -
Operating Expenses
5.   Development of Breeding Stations
Table 1: Livestock Station Improvements
6.   Artificial Insemination
Table 1: Artificial Insemination Program
2: Investment Costs
3: Additional Staff Requirements
4: Projected Operating Costs
7.   Vaccine Production and Disease Control
Chart 1: Organization
Table 1: Component Costs
8.   Assistance to Dairy Industry
Table 1: New Dairy Farm - Investment Costs
2: New Dairy Farm - Income & Expenditure Account
3: New Dairy Farm - Cash Flow
9.   Technical Assistance
Table 1: Component Costs



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...........................                           i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................                                            1
II.    BACKGROUND  ........             ........................... ...                   1
A.   General  ..........................................                          1
B.   Livestock  ........................................                          2
III.  PROJECT AREA ........................                                                 5
A.   General ....................5.-.-.---.---........ -
B.   Livestock  ........................................                          6
IV.    PROJECT FORMULATION  ................................ .                            7
V.    THE PROJECT  .......            ........................ ..                        8
Brief Description  ..............................                          8
Detailed Features  .............            ..      ................    10
Project  Costs  ...............          ..       ..................    14
Project  Financing ...............................    15
Procurement  ...... ............                ...................    15
Disbursement  ...............           ..       ...................    16
Accounts  and Audit  ............           ..       ................    16
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..........                ..      ..............    17
A.    Livestock Development  Department  ...............                   .    17
B.    Office of  the Under Secretary of State Ministry
of Agriculture  .............................    20
C.    Reporting  Procedures  ............................    20
VII.    YIELDS AND PRICES                      ....................................    20
VIII.      BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  ...........................    21
IX.    RECOIrENDATIONS  ....... ...........                    ....................    23



-3-
10.   Project Costs
11.   Disbursements
Table 1: Schedule of Disbursements
2: Proposed Allocation of Proceeds
3: Project Financing Summary
12.   Project Organization
Chart 1: Livestock Development Department
2: Project Organization
13.   Operating Results
Table 1: AI Program
2: Village Herd Projection - With Project
3: Village Herd Projection - Without Project
4: Village Herd Projection - Closing Herd Values
5: Intensive Area Development
14.   Economic Evaluation
MAP






THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Thailand has requested a Bank loan to assist in
the financing of a Livestock Development Project, the primary purpose of
which would be to increase the productivity and incomes of traditional vil-
lage livestock owners in Northeast Thailand. On the basis of the findings
presented in this report, a loan of US$5.0 million is recommended.
ii.       The agricultural sector accounts for 30% of Thailand's GDP, 70%
of export earnings, and 75% of employment. The growth of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged 5.5% per annum in the last decade, one of the highest
growth rates among developing countries in Asia. However, growth has been
attained primarily through the expansion of cultivated area, and with the
rapid disappearance of reserves of arable land, future growth will depend
increasingly on intensification of production.
iii.      Farm holdings in Thailand are small (averaging 3 ha with only 5%
in excess of 10 ha). The income of agricultural workers is substantially
less than those of other sectors, and within agriculture there are sig-
nificant regional disparities. Average income per farm family in the North-
east, for example, is US$331 per year, about 25% of that in the Central
Region.
iv.       Livestock are essential to the traditional agriculture of Thailand.
They provide the preponderance of draught power for farm operations and
rural transport, are a major source of cash income, and serve as reserve
capital to be drawn down in the event of crop failure. Virtually all
holdings have at least one buffalo, and 70% of farms in the Northeast have
cattle as well. Roughly 10% of the cattle and buffalo population are
slaughtered annually for domestic consumption. Disease control and vaccine
production are inadequate at present to deal with endemic infectious di-
seases, and only the Southern Region has been declared a disease free zone
for Foot-and-Mouth Disease.
v.        The Northeast Region, where the project would be concentrated,
is characterized by low and declining soil fertility. Shifting cultivation
is widely practised on rainfed lands, and large areas of fallow and scrub
lands constitute the major source of animal feed. The introduction of
tropical legumes would greatly enhance the nutritive value of this fodder
and would curb the decline in soil fertility to a considerable extent.
vi.       The proposed project would increase the productivity and incomes
primarily of traditional village livestock owners in 640 villages in the
Northeast selected for intensive development. The project would have the
following major components: the establishment of the legume Townsville
stylo on about 83,000 ha of fallow and permanent grazing lands; an extensive



- ii -
cross breeding program for beef and draught cattle through artificial in-
semination and "loaned bull" programs; expanded vaccine production; ex-
panded research and production facilities for the Livestock Development De-
partment; measures to increase the supply of milk cows; and livestock-related
training and technical assistance.
vii.      Project costs over the five-year implementation period would be
$ 227 million (US$11.5 million).  The Bank loan of US$5.0 million would fi-
nance foreign exchange costs amounting to 44% of total project cost. The
loan would be made to Government and would be repayable in 20 years including
5 years of grace.
viii.     Procurement would be conducted as follows:
(a)  international competitive bidding following Bank guidelines
for machinery, equipment and vehicles (US$1.25 million);
(b)  bids would be invited from at least three countries free
of foot and mouth disease for the purchase of cattle and
frozen semen (US$1.9 million);
(c)  civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (US$.75 million);
(d)  advisors would be internationally recruited and approved
by the Bank (US$0.3 million);
(e)  terms of reference for the dairy study would be subject
to Bank approval (US$0.08 million);
(f)  normal trade channels would be used to purchase a small
portion of equipment (US$0.15 million) and small amounts
of pasture seed should these become necessary;
(g)  government procedures would be applied to incremental
operating costs (US$4.4 million); and
(h)  research grants and study tours would be authorized by
the Director General of the Livestock Development Department
(US$0.1 million).
ix.       The project would be executed by the Livestock Development Depart-
ment (LDD) of the Ministry of Agriculture except for two small dairy com-
ponents which would be undertaken by other responsible agencies. All LDD
components for the Northeast would be supervised by a Project Manager located
at Tha Phra, who would be directly responsible to the Director General
of the Department. Field officers in the intensive development areas would
be responsible to the technical officers of nearby breeding stations, and
through them to the Project Manager. Research activities would be coordinated



- iii -
with those of other departments through the inter-departmental management
of the Northeast Agricultural Research Centre at Tha Phra.
x.        Quantified benefits in terms of additional livestock sales are
expected to accrue to about 171,000 families with the following distribution:
95,000 families, average $ 1,800 per year (70% over present income); 40,000
families, % 650 per year (25% over present income; and, 36,000 families,
$ 160 per year (6% over present income).
xi.       Other benefits from the project would include:
(a) a 60% increase in vaccine production which, together with
improved disease control measures arising from project
studies, are expected to reduce mortality by at least
10-15%, and improve animal productivity;
(b) strengthening of the Dairy Promotion Organization (DPO) and
an improvement in extension assistance to co-operative dairy
operations throughout Thailand. (About 30,000 crossbred
dairy cows are expected to be added to the national dairy
herd over an eight year period.);
(c) research efforts, resulting in improved pasture management,
crossbreeding, calving dates and supplemental feeding; and
(d) initial work on buffalo should identify potential improve-
ments in the productivity of buffalo which outnumber
cattle 7:4 in Thailand.
xii.      The project produces positive and very attractive net economic
benefits after year 2. However, this investment capitalizes on a number
of costly infrastructure and research efforts such as the bilaterally fi-
nanced central AI facilities (Netherlands) and pasture research (Australia
and New Zealand). The projected 68% economic rate of return for quantified
benefits and related costs must be viewed in this context.
xiii.     With the assurances obtained, this project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$5.0 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Royal Thai Government has asked the Bank for assistance in the
financing of a Livestock Development Project. A Bank Agricultural Sector
Survey recommended a livestock project in 1971. The project was identified
by a Bank reconnaissance/identification mission in early 1973, and prepared
by a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission which visited Thailand in September
1973. Subsequent updating and nodifications were undertaken by an inter-
departmental working group of the Ministry of Agriculture with the assist-
ance of the Bank's Resident Mission.
1.02      The proposed project would be the third Bank Group project in
Northeast Thailand. Credit 461-TH, approved in February 1974, is an irri-
gation improvement project covering about 42,000 ha. The credit also in-
cludes a research program to develop improved methods of rainfed rice cul-
tivation. The Northeast Rural Development Project to be presented for con-
sideration by the Executive Directors in the current fiscal year would
finance infrastructure improvements in the rural Northeast, including village
access roads, potable water supply, village electrification, minor surface
irrigation and agricultural extension. The project would also include a
research program to develop improved methods of rainfed upland crop culti-
vation. Cattle and buffalo are an integral part of agricultural production
in the region and the proposed Livestock Development Project would complement
the preceeding projects in addressing the needs of smallholder agriculture
in the Northeast.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Thailand in October/November 1974. The mission was composed of
J. Brown, K. Arichandran, A. Cheema, (IBRD), P. Skerman, A. Robertson,
E. Pitt, and R. Fenwick (Consultants). The mission also appraised the North-
east Rainfed Upland Crop Project subsequently incorporated in the Northeast
Rural Development Project.
II. BACKGROUND
A. GENERAL
2.01      Thailand has a total area of 51.4 million ha of which 10.9 million
ha is under cultivation. The population of 39.7 million (mid-1973) is
increasing at about 3.1% annually. In the past ten years, the economy has
grown at a average real rate of more than 7% and output per capita has
increased at over 4%.
Agricultural Production
2.02      Thailand's economy is predominantly agricultural.  This sector
accounts for nearly 30% of GDP, 70% of export earnings (mainly rice, maize,
kenaf, rubber and sugar), and about 75% of total employment. The growth
rate of agricultural output has averaged 5.5% per year in the past decade



and is one of the highest among developing countries in Asia. Thailand is
a net exporter of food, primarily rice of which 848,000 tons were exported
in 1973. However, the contribution of agriculture to GDP declined from
40% in 1960 to 30% in 1970, and the growth in crop production, which accounts
for about 72% of total agricultural production, has been primarily attribut-
able to expanded area of cultivation, which grew at an average rate of 3.8%
in the period 1960-1970. New areas suitable for cultivation are rapidly
diminishing, and future growth will depend upon concerted efforts at inten-
sification of agricultural activities.
Farm Income Pattern
2.03      Almost 50% of agricultural holdings in Thailand are less than 2.4
ha and only 5% are ten ha or more. The size of holdings has increased
slightly as indicated by the land-worker ratio (from 0.72 ha in 1960
to 0.9 ha per person in 1970). Large income disparities exist in Thailand
mainly between urban and rural areas but also, within agriculture, among
the four main regions of the country. In 1973, the GDP per worker in
agriculture averaged about $ 4,300 (US$215) compared with $ 32,500 (US$1,620)
for workers in other occupations. Farm income levels in 1970 (the latest
year for which data is available) ranged from $ 7,154 (US$1,192) in the
Central Region to $ 1,986 (US$331) in the Northeast.
B. Livestock
Present Livestock Situation
2.04      Although livestock account for only 13% of the gross value of
agricultural production they are nevertheless an integral part of the rural
economy, constituting a significant source of cash income for small farmers
and a capital reserve on which to rely in the event of crop failure. Cattle
and buffalo also account for the preponderance of rural draught power and
hence are essential to the livelihood of most Thai farmers. In many regions
where village cattle are grazed as a single unit, livestock are a focal point
for village activities and contact with villagers through public sector
livestock services provides an excellent entree for other public sector
services to the rural community. However, slow growth in livestock production,
about 2.5% per year, has resulted in a reduction of live cattle exports and
domestic meat prices have risen sharply in recent years. The indigenous
cattle are of Zebu origin with an average mature weight of about 350 kg.
Local buffalos are of the swamp type weighing about 500 kg. at maturity and
are used principally as draught animals. Virtually all farm holdings have
at least one buffalo, while 60% of all holdings have 2-3 buffalos. About
70% of holdings have cattle, but only 30% have three or more head. Both
cattle and buffalo populations are characterized by relatively low herd pro-
ductivity. Annual weaning rates are about 45% for cattle and 33% for buffalo.
This is primarily attributable to frequent feed stress, although inadequate
animal health protection is also a significant factor.



- 3-
Livestock Development Department
2.05      The Livestock Development Department engages in research and de-
velopment activities intended to promote the growth of livestock production
in Thailand. In addition, it is charged with disease control and the en-
forcement of livestock marketing regulations. While authority is highly
centralized in Bangkok, the department does maintain breeding and forage
stations and Al centres throughout the country. Regional and provincial
veterinarians oversee the disease detection and control programs and five
mobile veterinary units are used to vaccinate cattle in the buffer zone
protecting the Southern Region, which is a disease free zone for Foot and
Mouth Disease (FMD).
Infectious Disease
2.06      The following infectious diseases of livestock are relatively com-
mon in most of Thailand: Foot-and-Mouth Disease, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia,
Blackleg, Brucellosis, Fowl Cholera, Anthrax, Swine Fever, Newcastle Disease,
Fowl Pox, and Infectious Bronchitis. As a result of inadequate detection
and control programs the majority of outbreaks of these diseases go unre-
ported. Nevertheless, reported deaths from Haemorrhagic Septicaemia alone
average about 2,800 per year. Southern Thailand is free of Foot-and-Mouth
Disease, but the disease is a major constraint on animal production elsewhere
in Thailand. Bilateral aid has recently been received from the Government
of Japan to increase FMD vaccine production by 60% to 1.6 million doses per
year.
Cattle Breeding
2.07      One of the most effective development programs of LDD has been
the upgrading of local cattle in the Northeast by crossing with locally
selected Brahman bulls. This program consists of more than 130 village
farmers' groups, each with an average cattle herd size of about 100 head.
The objective of the program is ultimately to upgrade the native cattle to
Brahman in view of their superior draught and meat characteristics. Although
farmer response has been very enthusiastic, progress will be slow without
considerable increases in staff and resources for the program.
Low Cost Pasture Improvement
2.08      Parallel with breed improvement there is a need to raise the
nutritive value of local feedstuff, particularly during the dry season.
Results from the Borabue Thai/New Zealand pasture station near Khon Kaen
have shown that it is possible to grow high quality legume-based pastures
capable of sustaining high levels of animal production at all times of the
year. Perhaps the most important result from the station to date is to
demonstrate that it is possible to improve the nutritive value of native
forest grasslands by oversowing with the annual legume Stylosanthes humulis.
With minimal amounts of phosphate and sulphur fertilizers the improvement
is often dramatic. These findings confirm the experience in tropical
Australia where these inputs are now the basis for low cost improvement



- 4 -
in large areas climatically and ecologically similar to Northeast Thailand.
There is little doubt that the widespread application of this simple
technique in the region could have a dramatic effect on animal production.
In addition (and more importantly) this legume could well prove to be a
simple, low cost means of stabilizing and increasing production from the
dryland cropping areas by including it as a fertility/soil texture building
ley in a cropping rotation. Studies on this are being made at Khon Kaen
University by an Australian Colombo Plan pasture/crop specialist working
in collaboration with local farmers in a number of villages in the Khon Kaen
area. This concept is gaining widespread acceptance by the village farmers
but there is need for further studies in the area of soil improvement
techniques using legumes. Depending on the results it could well be that
this legume could be the means of improving long term agricultural pro-
duction in the region in addition to its proven contribution to animal
nutrition.
Livestock Marketing
2.09      Government estimated the number of working animals in Thailand
in 1970 (the latest census figures) at 2.6 million cattle and 3.5 million
buffalo, with a working life of 5 years for cattle and 6 years for buffalo.
While these are sufficient numbers to work more than the present area under
cultivation, feed stress at critical work times does reduce the capacity
of draught animals and jeopardize timely farm operations. Slaughter animals
are generally a byproduct of workstock, and shortages of draught animals
in the past resulted in introduction of age limits for slaughter animals
which are still in effect. While slaughter estimates vary considerably,
it appears that about 400,000 cattle and 600,000 buffaloes are slaughtered
annually. Only about one third of this total is slaughtered in licensed
abattoirs, the balance being slaughtered illegally. Licensed facilities
are entirely inadequate to handle total slaughter requirements and are in
most cases unhygienic. Effective improvement of slaughter facilities is
closely tied to a number of policy and regulation issues. A committee
has recently been established under the chairmanship of the Director General,
LDD, to review the livestock laws and regulations, including disease control,
pricing policy and export quotas. Annex 1 elaborates on meat marketing
problems.
Dairy Industry
2.10      Dairying in Thailand is based almost entirely on small, mixed
farm herds of three to ten cows. A specialized dairy farming pattern based
on 25 rai (4 ha) pasture farms has been introduced in a dairy colony at Muak
Lak. The majority of dairy farmers belong to, and market through, a
cooperative. The two largest dairies in Thailand are owned by a government
agency (Dairy Promotion Organization) and a private company (Foremost) and
the balance are almost entirely cooperative-owned. The fluid milk market is
small, about 108 tons per day, but steady growth is evident. In addition,
imports of dairy products, primarily powdered milk and butter oil have in-
creased steadily (1972 dairy imports:  30,700 m.t., valued at US$24.2 million).
Three government agencies are engaged in various dairy development activi-
ties: Dairy Promotion Organization, Cooperatives Department, and LDD, and



there is a need to strengthen and coordinate their efforts. The dairy
industry is further described in Annex 2.
Prolected Growth of Livestock Production
2.11      The Third Plan (1972-1976) projected a growth rate of 3.4%
per year for livestock production, slightly higher than the present rate of
human population growth. This desirable target has not been achieved to
date, and concerted development and research efforts will be required in
the fields of genetic improvement, nutrition, disease control and manage-
ment if it is to be realized in the near future.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. GENERAL
3.01      The Northeast Region is a distinct physiographic unit with an
area of 170,000 sq. km. and a population of 12 million. Although the region
accounts for one-third of the country's population and land area, its
contribution to GDP is only 16%, and its per capita income is only 25% of
that of the Central Region.
Soils and Rainfall
3.02      The soils are generally acidic and low in organic matter, with a
high sand content and low to moderate water holding capacity. They are
generally low in nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and sulphur and in many
areas repeated cropping without the use of fertilizers has resulted in
marked decline in soil fertility to such a level that further cropping is
not economical. Average annual rainfall in the Northeast ranges from 1,100
millimeters in the western provinces to over 1,600 millimeters in the east-
ern provinces bordering the Mekong River. Eightyfive percent of the rain-
fall occurs from mid-May to mid-October. Total rainfall is adequate for wet
season crops, but it is often poorly distributed in relation to crop water
requirements. Drought periods of 10-15 days are common in July and August,
and October rainfall is often insufficient for the maturing rice crop.
Agricultural Pattern
3.03      Almost 80% of the cultivated area (total 3.5 million ha) in the
Northeast is planted to paddy. Upland crops, including in order of impor-
tance kenaf, corn, cassava, peanut and cotton, account for 18% of the area
and the balance is primarily tobacco and sugarcane. As a result of poor
soil fertility and the very limited use of chemical fertilizer, upland crop
production is characterized by shifting cultivation, with substantial areas
lying fallow for five years or longer at a time. In addition, inadequate
or untimely rainfall frequently results in a significant proportion of paddy
land lying idle. These areas are important sources of forage but the



-6-
native plants which dominate in the regrowth are low in both productivity
and nutritive value.
Communications
3.04      The region is served by an excellent network of paved roads.
Village access roads are a limiting factor in some areas although the North-
east Rural Development Project which is expected to be considered by the
Executive Directors for possible financing would help to remove this cons-
traint.
Agricultural Credit
3.05      The supply of credit in the Northeast has been slower to develop
than elsewhere in Thailand. Only 15% of total credit to agriculture is
provided by financial institutions. The balance is provided by money-
lenders, relatives, neighbors and traders at exorbitant rates of interest,
although some marketing and processing services may be provided at no
additional expense. The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(BAAC), wholly-owned by government, provides 85% of institutional credit to
agriculture, often through cooperatives or farmers' associations. As of
December 31, 1973 outstanding loans by BAAC in the region totalled A273.1
million (US$13.8 million) which was 24% of their total loan portfolio on
that date. Sixty seven percent was in short-term loans, the balance in
medium-term loans. At present BAAC credit to livestock is limited to work
animals and hogs for fattening. Indicative of BAAC's rapid growth is the
fact that 31% of all credit extended from 1967 to 1973 was extended in that
last year. To assist in BAAC's entry into the long-term credit market, a
bilateral agreement has been reached with the New Zealand Government to pro-
vide two credit advisors for a period of one year.
B. Livestock
Cattle and Buffalo in the Farming System
3.06      About 45% of Thailand's 4.7 million cattle and 47% of its 5.4
million buffalo are found in the Northeast. Even the smallest holdings
normally have at least one buffalo, and 70% of all farm holdings have cat-
tle. Only 30% have three or more cattle, and herds larger than ten are
rare. Cattle and buffalo are the primary sources of draught power not only
for cultivation but for transport as well. The village herd is generally
managed as a unit. While ownership is distinct and animals usually graze in
groups of five or ten, the herd is usually grazed in the same total area.
Protection of private pasture for the exclusive use of the owner's livestock
is very rare, and tends to be viewed as antisocial. In the wet season, live-
stock are kept from the cropped areas, and common scrublands and fallow are
the principal pasture areas. After the harvest, standing stubble and the
growth on bunds and field margins are the important forage. Distinct periods
of feed stress occur at the end of the wet season, prior to harvest, and



- 7 -
toward the end of the dry season, when the total fodder stock is diminished
and regrowth is negligible.
Marketing
3.07      The primary market for cattle and buffalo is for draught purposes.
Many communities in the Northeast are known throughout Thailand for the
quality of their draught animals, and buyers travel to these villages to
buy from individual farmers. Suppliers in the Northeast resist organized
marketing on the grounds that prices are generally higher when purchases
are made at the farm. Slaughter animals, officially those over specified
age limits and of lesser draft value, are bought from farmers by butchers.
Middlemen are only significant in the assembly of shipments for the large
Bangkok market. Virtually all meat sales in the region are conducted
in open air markets within hours of slaughter. Most slaughtering is done
illegally, in part because of poor licensed facilities, in part to save
fees charged by these facilities, but also in part to avoid inspection which
would reveal that many animals do not comply with age restrictions. Price
controls are generally ineffective, and are frequently adjusted to keep
pace with market conditions.
Dairy Industry in the Northeast
3.08      The major thrust of dairy development in Thailand has been at
Muak Lak where the Thai Danish Dairy Farm was established in 1963. Its
successor, the Dairy Promotion Organization now operates a 1,700 cow farm
and a processing plant with a current throughput of 11 tons of fresh milk
per day. A Land Settlement Department colony of 120 private farms (25 rai
each) supplies a substantial share of the dairy's raw milk. DPO operates
a farmers' training program and a frozen semen Al service using bulls
selected from a Red Dane, Sindhi, native, cross-breeding program. DPO has
within its staff an excellent level of technical expertise which could be
used to great advantage in training the staff of other agencies engaged in
dairy development elsewhere in Thailand.
IV. PROJECT FORMULATION
Priority of Livestock Development in the Northeast
4.01      Livestock development is a particularly effective means of improving
the economic condition of large numbers of smallholders in Northeast Thailand:
(a) Livestock contribute a major share of the cash income
of farmers in the region, many of whom have land holdings
too small to be viable with crop production alone.
(b) With the rapid disappearance of new land for cropping,
the intensification of agricultural production is becoming
essential for economic growth, and livestock can play a



major role in this respect because of their ability to
utilize land and plant resources which otherwise have little
or no economic value.
(c)  The introduction of tropical legumes into natural pastures
and fallow land serve to arrest the decline in soil fertility
which has resulted in a dominant pattern of shifting culti-
vation and which otherwise could not be overcome without
costly applications of chemical fertilizer.
(d) Day-to-day herd management absorbs underemployed family
labour in an economically attractive activity.
RTG places great emphasis on agricultural development in the Northeast and
recognizes the importance of livestock in this respect. Its desire to proceed
quickly with a livestock project in that region has been substantiated by the
active role of officials in project preparation and the budgetary commitment
already made to the initial year of activities that would be covered by the
project.
4.02      The project described in the following chapters has been designed
primarily to alleviate the following specific constraints on agricultural
production in the Northeast:
(a)  low yields and nutritive value of natural grazing areas;
(b)  periods of feed stress resulting in reduced animal growth
and draft capacity;
(c)  declining soil fertility as a result of continuous cultivation
of soil-depleting crops;
(d)  genetic constraint on growth and size of native zebu cattle; and
(e)  widespread occurance of debilitating livestock diseases.
V.. THE PROJECT
Brief Description
5.01      The proposed project would increase the productivity and income
primarily of farmers in 640 villages in the Northeast which have been selected
for intensive pasture and livestock development under the project. Villages
have been selected on the basis of farmer interest, suitability of available
fallow and common grazing lands, scope for improvement of cattle herds
through cross breeding and disease control, and proximity of breeding sta-
tions that would be centres of technical assistance. 1/ In addition, the
1/   The list of areas selected for intensive development appears as
Appendix I of Annex 3.



- 9 -
project would provide for an expansion of existing national artificial
insemination and disease control programs, increase the number of cross-
bred milk cows and trained workers available for the nascent dairy industry,
and provide a model to government for the extension of livestock services
to other areas.
5.02      The project would consist of:
-    establishing the legume Townsville stylo on about 83,000 1/
ha of fallow and permanent grazing lands;
-    production of about 85 metric tons of forage seed annually
on Northeast forage stations, of which 60 tons would be
Townsville stylo;
-    expanded research and production facilities of five Livestock
Development Department (LDD) breeding stations and two sub-
stations in the Northeast;
-    expansion of the "loaned bull" program in the Northeast by
455 bulls at full development;
-    expansion of the national artificial insemination program to
service 72,000 additional cows annually by the fifth year;
-    the import of about 300 Brahman bulls and about 600 Brahman
cows for research and production at Northeast breeding
stations and to meet the immediate needs of the loaned bull
and AI programs;
-    the import of 144,000 doses of Brahman and Holstein-Friesian
semen for the national Al program;
-    expanded vaccine production facilities serving the country
as a whole;
-    training facilities for the Dairy Promotion Organization (DPO)
to improve the caliber of assistance to dairying throughout
the country; and
-    technical assistance, including advisors in pasture develop-
ment, seed production and processing, livestock research,
disease control, vaccine production and agricultural training,
and study tours, assistance in the assessment of future dairy
potential and the preparation of a dairy project.
1/   64,700 ha within intensive development areas, the balance in support
of other ongoing pasture development activities primarily in the
Northeast.



- 10 -
5.03      The proposed project is based on pasture work of the Land Develop-
ment Department and Khon Kaen University, and the proven superiority of, the
farmer preference for, Brahman cross cattle. Ancillory services such as
seed production, animal breeding and disease control have been provided by
government agencies for some time, and the project would build on that
experience.
5.04      The project would be executed by the LDD except for dairy training
and project preparation which would be carried out by the DPO and the Office
of the Under Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, respectively. Within the
LDD, individual project components would be implemented by staff of the
respective technical divisions. All LDD components for the Northeast would
be supervised by a Project Manager located at Tha Phra, who, together with
Division Chiefs, would be directly responsible to the Director General of
the Department. Field officers in the intensive development areas would
be responsible to the technical officers of nearby breeding stations, and
through them to the Project Manager.
5.05      While problems surrounding meat marketing would not pose a con-
straint on development under this project, the long term growth of the
subsector and the scope for future large scale investment will depend on
a number of policy decisions by RTG, particularly with respect to disease
control, age limits on slaughter cattle, domestic pricing policy, and export
quotas. Assurances were received that a report of the interdepartmental
committee reviewing these issues would be submitted to the Bank for information
and discussion within 12 months of the date of signature of the proposed
loan.
Detailed Features
5.06      Pasture Development:  Broadcast sowing of Townsville stylo has been
proven as an effective low-cost means of improving significantly the quality
of many types of grazing areas in the Northeast. While Townsville stylo
responds well to phosphorus and sulphur fertilizer in the region, no
fertilizer is required either for establishment or significant quality im-
provement over native pasture. Seed innoculation is not required for nodule
development. Under the project, seed would be distributed initially in
intensive area villages, in adequate volumes for the sowing of 200 rai
(33 ha) per village in the first year of participation and 400 rai (67 ha)
per village in the third year of participation. Grazing practices are such
that village cattle and buffalo are permitted to graze private as well as
communally-owned lands. The benefits of improved forage on any one area
therefore do not accrue entirely to the owner, and seed and sowing costs
would not be charged to owners. Seed, at estimated production cost of
$10 (US$0.5) per kg would be distributed free of charge and village farmers
would, under supervision of Field Development Officers, perform sowing
and the minimal management requirements for pasture establishment. Irre-
spective of communal or private ownership, sites would be selected on the
basis of heavy grazing pressure, freedom from extensive brush cover, ac-
cessibility by village stock, and soil permiability and drainage. In keeping



- 11 -
with village tradition, these areas would not be fenced. Close herd super-
vision and some brush fencing are now adequate to keep cattle from paddy
areas and would suffice to protect stands of stylo until, after several
months, they could withstand heavy grazing. Although the species is very
persistent in grazed areas, it will not become a serious weed of crops.
It is intolerant of water logging and therefore poses no threat to rice; it
is also intolerant of shade and will not compete well with rapidly growing
upland crops. Provision would also be made for field trials using phosphorus
and sulphur fertilizers on limited areas of Townsville Stylo, to assess the
impact on nitrogen fixation. Details of pasture development appear in
Annex 3.
5.07      Forage Seed Production:  Present supplies of Townsville stylo are
very limited in Thailand and elsewhere. The Land Development Department
station at Borabu, the largest source of seed in Thailand, produced less
than five tons this year compared with a peak project requirement of 60 tons
per year. Under the project 2,000 rai (about 335 ha) would be put into
Townsville stylo seed production on three LDD forage stations in the region.
This area would meet project seed requirements. The demand for seed outside
the project area is significant, and the future export potential is added
assurance that all production from this area would be used after the initial
project period. In addition, 900 rai (150 ha) would be developed for the
production and testing of other pasture species, primarily legumes, which
have undergone initial adaptation trials and been found suitable for further
work or immediate distribution. 1/ Of particular interest is the legume
Siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum) which has been found to do well in
mixed pastures with Paragrass (Brachiaria mutica), the most popular grass
species in improved pastures of the region. A central seed processing and
storage unit would be established at the project headquarters, Tha Phra.
Details of the seed production component of the project appear in Annex 4.
5.08      Development of Breeding Stations:  The facilities and staff of
five of the breeding stations and two substations in the Northeast would
be expanded for research and production purposes and to serve as technical
service centres for the project's intensive development areas. An eighth
station, Surin, would also serve as a research and technical service centre,
but no additional facilities would be required. Details of this component
including activities to be undertaken at each station and staffing require-
ments are presented in Annex 5. Investments requiring Bank financing under
the project would be undertaken in accordance with annual work plans approved
by the Director General, LDD, in consultation with the Livestock Research
Advisor and the Project Manager. Assurances were received that these plans,
in sufficient detail to reflect the purpose and priority of station activities,
would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment at least three months
prior to the beginning of each fiscal year of the project period.
1/   To overcome seed shortages in the early years of the project, a portion
of this area would also initially be planted to Townsville stylo.



- 12 -
5.09      Loan Bull Program:  The LDD presently operates a "loaned bull"
program whereby Brahman bulls are given to registered Farmers Groups to
service members' cows. Bulls are inspected for health and management
regularly and those returned to the department for health care or condi-
tioning are kept in isolation from the LDD herds. Members pay reduced fees
for the service of group bulls, typically half of the private rates which
range from $ 100 - $ 200 (US$5-10). The project would expand this program
to serve project villages which cannot be served by AI facilities in the
near future, generally because of poor communication facilities. Over the
project period, about 455 bulls would be added to the program. The Project
Manager, acting on advice of the Animal Husbandry Officers at project
breeding stations, would approve the loaning of each bulll. Monthly records
of utilization, conception rates, and health would be kept for each bull.
5.10      Artificial Insemination Program:  The national AI program of the
LDD would be expanded by 23 Centres and 135 inseminators with initial con-
centration in the intensive development areas. The semen collection centre
at Tha Phra and the central laboratory and storage facilitity in Bangkok
are being expanded and improved under bilateral financing by the Netherlands
government. AI services to date have concentrated on dairy cattle, and
project financing would meet the anticipated additional demand for Holstein-
Friesian semen 1/. However rapid expansion is expected to occur with the
increased availability of Brahman semen, and the majority of inseminations
under the project are expected to be of this breed. The use of frozen semen
has been selected by both DPO and LDD for future expansion of services. Con-
version is now taking place, and all project investments would be for frozen
semen services. Domestic supply of liquid nitrogen will be more than adequate,
and a regular courier service would maintain the supply to all AI Centres
and inseminators. Cows serviced by AI would increase from 8,000 at present
to 80,000 in year five of the project (an increase of 1% of the total cow
population per year). Assurances were received that a fee structure would be
introduced for AI services which would be adequate to recover at least 50%
of reasonable operating costs by year five of the project. The AI program
is further described in Annex 6.
5.11      Import of Cattle and Semen:  To support the expanded research and
production programs of the breeding stations referred to in para 5.08, and
to meet the short term requirement of the "loaned bull" and Al programs,
cattle and semen imports would be required. About 600 cows and about 300
bulls of the Braham breed would be imported in lots of 150 or less in the
first two years of the project. 2/ About 200 bulls would be used in the
"loaned bull" program, and the balance of the cattle would go to selected
breeding stations in the Northeast. Total annual semen requirements would
be met from domestic sources after year 6, but about 144,000 doses of imported
1/   Red Dane and Red Dane Cross semen is provided by DPO and this would
also be offered through the LDD AI service.
2/   See Annex 5, Appendix 2 for import specifications.



- 13 -
semen would be required initially of which about 80,000 doses would be
Holstein Friesian, and 64,000 doses Brahman. To avoid depletion of LDD
purebred Brahman stock and to ensure that buyers financially able to import
their own breeding stock do not benefit from LDD-cost assistance, assurances
were received that except as the Bank shall otherwise agree no purebred Brahman
stock purchased or produced under the project would be sold during the
project period except those culled or castrated in the course of sound herd
management.
5.12      Vaccine Production:  Vaccine production facilities of the LDD would
be expanded under the project to improve vaccine quality and to increase
annual output by about 3.2 million doses as follows: Blackquarter, 20,000;
Brucella abortus Strain 19, 150,000; Haemorrhagic septicaemia, 2 million;
and Fowl Chlolera, 1 million. This would represent respective increases
over present production of 50%, (no Brucella vaccine now produced), 115%,
and 60%.
5.13      Assistance to the Dairy Industry:  Preliminary analysis indicates
that dairying is financially and economically attractive in Thailand. The
proposed project would remove constraints to future development by (i) in-
creasing the supply of good milk cows (see AI component); (ii) finance a
feasibility study for a future dairy project, and (iii) strengthen the
capacity of public sector agencies to assist dairy development. The Dairy
Promotion Organization, successor to the Thai-Danish Dairy Farm, has bene-
fited from more than ten years of Danish technical and financial assistance.
It now possesses within its staff an excellent level of technical expertise
in milk production and processing. DPO's commercial activities include the
sale of milk and milk products as well as some cows and frozen semen. Under
the project, training facilities would be provided to enable DPO to under-
take training of staff of the Cooperative Promotion Department which assists
cooperatives and their members in dairy activities. Improved technical
competence on the part of government field staff would have immediate bene-
fits for existing dairy farmers and processors and would be essential for
future dairy development. To ensure the commercial viability of DPO and
thereby safeguard its usefulness as a demonstration and training unit,
assurances were received that the following measures would be taken by Govern-
ment to strengthen DPO:
(i) the appointment of a Deputy Director with both technical
and commercial experience relevant to the work of DPO;
(ii) the appointment of a qualified experienced accountant as
Finance Manager;
(iii) the implementation of a suitable accounting system, possibly
with the assistance of the National Audit Council;
(iv) the updating of all accounts, which would require the assistance
of accountants employed on contract from outside DPO; and



- 14 -
(v) the appointment of an experienced officer as Sales and
Marketing Manager. 1/
5.14      Technical Assistance:  Six internationally-recruited advisors
would be engaged for varying periods on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank to assist in project execution in the following fields: Pasture
Development (2 years); Pasture Seed Production and Processing (6 months);
Livestock Research (2 years plus two annual 1-month tours); Disease Control
(6 months); Vaccine Production (6 months), and Agricultural Training (3
months). Terms of reference for each position appear in Annex 9. Assur-
ances were received that internationally recruited advisors would be selected
from short lists approved by the Bank and appointed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. In addition, funds would be provided for eight
study tours by senior staff engaged in Al training, semen processing and
storage, pasture research, livestock research, and disease control and 10
study tours by AI crentre chiefs. Study tours in Asia and/or Australia
would be provided for the 16 Pasture and Livestock Development Officers,
to be arranged in consultation with project advisors and the Resident
Mission. Funds for the engagement of consultants to assist in the prepara-
tion of a dairy project would also be included in the project. Terms of
reference for the study would be subject to Bank approval. Details of
technical assistance components appear in Annex 9.
Project Costs
5.15      Total project cost over a five year period is estimated to be
US$11.48 million of which foreign exchange costs would be US$5.00 million
(44%). Since the approach used in this project would be to strengthen
public sector services to the traditional livestock industry, incremental
operating cost associated with project activities have been included in
project costs (US$4.4 million). The total cost estimated includes a 10%
physical contingency on all items except technical assistance and operating
costs. All base cost estimates are in January 1975 prices. Expected price
increases were derived by applying to project costs the following rates of
annual price escalation: equipment, machinery and vehicles - 1975, 12%;
1976, 10%; 1977 and thereafter, 8%; other costs - 1975, 16%; 1976, 14%; 1977
and thereafter, 12%. Details of project costs appear in Annex 10, and
respective technical annexes. A summary of project costs follows:
1/  Dairy components of the project are described in Annex 8.



- 15 -
Project Cost Summary
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign
----(Million Baht)-- ---(US$ Thousand)---- Exchange
Seed Production       4.4    2.4       6.8    218      123    341       36
Development of
Breeding Stations 31.8   37.5       69.3  1,609   1,891  3,500        54
Al Program           25.4   21.7      47.1  1,286   1,095  2,381        46
Intensive Area
Development
Staff /a           15.8    3.4      19.2    798      172    970       18
Vaccine Production  11.1    5.7       16.8    562      289    851       34
Dairy Training        0.3    0.1       0.4      13        7     20      36
Technical Assistance 1.1    8.2        9.3      55     415    470       88
Base Cost Estimate
(1/75)             89.9   79.0    168.9  4,541   3,992  8,533
Physical Contingency 4.3    3.6        7.9    215      183    398
Price Contingency   34.1   16.4       50.5  1,724      825  2,549
TOTAL COST       128.3   99.0    227.3  6,480   5,000 11,480         44
/a   Primary function:  pasture deveitpment.
Project Financing
5.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$5.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The local currency requirements of about
$ 128 million (US$6.48 million) would be financed by Government through
budgetary allocations to implementing agencies, primarily the Livestock
Development Department.
Procurement
5.17      Procurement of machinery, equipment and vehicles would be subject
to international competitive bidding pursuant to Bank guidelines ($1.25
million) except for an estimated 10% of such purchases which would be small
and not suitable for bulking in which case procurement would be conducted
in accordance with normal Government procedures ($.15 million). For the



- 16 -
purchase of cattle and frozen semen bids would be invited from at least three
countries free of foot and mouth disease ($1.90 million). Civil works
contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank ($.75
million). Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid. Internationally
recruited advisors would be selected from short lists approved by the Bank,
or at RTG's discretion, approved individually by the Bank ($.30 million).
Terms of reference for the dairy study would be subject to Bank approval
($.08 million). Incremental operating costs would be controlled by normal
government staffing and procurement procedures, as would the import of small
quantities of pastures seed should this become necessary ($4.4 million).
Research and study tours would require approval by the Director General,
Livestock Development Department ($.08 million).
Disbursement
5.18      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the c.i.f. cost
of directly imported machinery, equipment, vehicles, cattle, frozen semen,
and pasture seed, or the ex-factory price (net of taxes) of machinery, equip-
ment and vehicles of locally manufactured, and at the rate of 65% of total
expenditure for imported machinery, equipment and vehicles procured locally.
Disbursement for the services of foreign advisors and consultants would equal
100% of the foreign exchange cost. 100% of the total cost of research and
study tours would be disbursed against statement of expenditure certified by
the Director General, LDD. 25% of the cost of buildings would be disbursed
against invoice. Documentation for cost of research and study tours and
incremental operating costs of field staff would be retained by the Borrower
and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of a project
supervision mission. Any funds remaining in the loan account upon completion
of the project would be used to finance additional works and/or expansion
of project activities after agreement between the Government and the Bank.
A schedule of disbursements, together with a proposed allocation of the
proceeds of the loan and a project financing summary appears as Annex 11.
Accounts and Audit
5.19      Assurances were obtained from RTG that:
(i) Separate project accounts would be kept by the Livestock
Development Department, adequate to reflect the use of
project funds for all components except dairy training
and the dairy study;
(ii) The Dairy Promotion Organization would keep separate
accounts adequate to reflect the use of project funds for
dairy training; and



- 17 -
(iii) Summary accounts for LDD and DPO expenditures would be
maintained by the Office of the Under Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture, together with records pertaining to the
dairy study.
Assurances were also obtained from RTG that project accounts would be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank and that audited project
accounts, together with the auditors report, would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of close of each fiscal year.
Credit Support of Project
5.20      Although onfarm lending is not included under the project, some
credit may be required by larger farmers for fencing, pasture development,
herd expansion etc. BAAC operates successfully in the project area and
has sufficient funds to meet the above credit requirements. Assurances
were received that BAAC would review the project's pasture improvement
program annually and prepare, in consultation with the Director General,
LDD, an annual credit support program, a copy of which would be supplied to
the Bank for information and comment.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      All project components would be executed by the Livestock Develop-
ment Department except the dairy training, for which the Dairy Promotion
Organization would be responsible, and the dairy industry feasibility
study/project preparation which would be carried out under the supervision
of the Office of the Under Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. Project
management is detailed in Annex 12.
A. Livestock Development Department
6.02      The Livestock Development Department, headed by a Director General,
is organized into Divisions along technical lines (See Annex 12, Chart I).
Breeding stations to be improved under the project are among those in the
region operated by the Animal Breeding Division. Forage stations to be used
for pasture seed production and research are operated by the Animal Nutrition
and Forage Crop Division. Vaccine production would be the responsibility
of the Animal Biological Products Division, and the AI program would be
carried out by the Artificial Insemination Division.
6.03      Overall Project Management:  Vaccine production, and artificial
insemination components of the project represent expansions of ongoing
national programs. It is therefore appropriate that overall project
management be vested in the Director-General, LDD. Day-to-day management
would be delegated to Division Chiefs, but the Director General would,
consistent with established procedures, retain control of annual programs



- 18 -
and budgets. Field development in the Northeast, including pastures, seed
production, breeding station development and the "loaned bull" program would
be supervised by a Regional Project Manager based at Tha Phra, who would
be directly responsible to the Director General. Project organization
is depicted in Chart 2.
Organization for Intensive Development Areas
6.04      Field Development Officers (FDO):  These officers would be the
major and regular field link through whom project assistance would be
channeled to farmers in the project area. Of the 60 FDOs to be required at
full development, it is estimated that about 20 would be reassigned from
elsewhere in LDD, and the balance would be recruited from outside the
department. FDOs would have at least a diploma in agriculture and would
receive 6 weeks training in pasture development and beef/draft animal
husbandry. Additional training would be provided for FDOs required to act
as AI inseminators in their territories. Officers would visit each project
unit an average of twice a week, and travel allowances and individual trans-
port would be provided to this end.
6.05      Technical Support:  Breeding centres strategically located through-
out the project area would have on staff a Pasture Development Officer (PDO)
and a Livestock Development Officer (LDO). Each would have at least a
bachelor's degree in agriculture and related experience, probably within
the department, and it is expected that they would be recruited from within
the deparment. In addition, they would receive 2-3 weeks orientation in
project strategy and, as required, additional technical training of up to
one month. Typically there would be 8-10 FDOs in the territory of any one
breeding station, and PDOs and LDOs would be expected to provide technical
backstopping for the field work of the officers in their territories. In
addition, PDOs would establish and supervise pasture demonstrations, and
LDOs would recommend beneficiary Farmers' Groups for the "loaned bull"
program, regularly inspect bulls, and maintain records for the program.
Difficult technical issues would be referred to the Senior Livestock Officer
and the Senior Pasture Officer located at Tha Phra. Senior Officers would
visit breeding stations regularly.
Regional Project Unit
6.06      Tha Phra Breeding Station would be the regional headquarters for
the project. It is ideally suited for this purpose, being central to the
region, located on a major highway, and only several kilometers from Khon
Kaen, the largest city of the region, offering the ammenities and services
required to attract senior staff of good caliber. Project management would
consist of a Regional Project Manager, a Senior Pasture Officer, a
Senior Livestock Officer, and the Pasture Development and Livestock Research
Advisors (internationally-recruited). In addition, a Central Mobile Unit
for pasture development work would be based at Tha Phra, as would a Central
Staff Training Unit and a Central Seed Processing and Storage Unit.



- 19 -
6.07      Regional Project Manager:  This senior officer would be responsible
to the Director General for the supervision of all project components within
the region. It was a condition of negotiations that the Project Manager,
having at least the rank of 6th P.C. be appointed and assurances were received
that he would take up permanent residence at or near Tha Phra within 3
months of the date of loan signature. Assurances were also received that
the Project Manager would prepare annual project work programs in cooperation
with the Senior Pasture and Livestock Officers and that these would be
submitted to the Director General for approval at least three months before
the start of each fiscal year of the project period. In addition to field
development, the Manager would oversee project research and production
activities on breeding and forage stations.
6.08      Senior Livestock and Pasture Officers:  These officers would have
graduate degrees and extensive experience in related fields. They would
supervise the work of FDO's and the Livestock and Pasture Development Officers
on project stations and provide technical support. In addition they would
supervise research and production within their respective subject areas on
project stations. Duties are further described in Annex 12, paragraphs
8 and 9. Assurances were received that these officers would be appointed and
would take up permanent residence at or near Tha Phra within 3 months of
the date of loan signature.
Research Coordination
6.09      Arrangements for planning and co-ordination of regional agricul-
tural research, including lines of authority between departments in the
Ministry of Agriculture are still the subject of discussion within the above
Ministry. Assurances were received that the Regional Project Manager would
represent LDD on the Regional Research Co-ordination Committee, the estab-
lishment of which is under consideration by RTG.
Training of Project Staff
6.10      The technology involved in initial field development under the
project is not complex, and short refresher courses and orientation at Tha
Phra would be adequate for FDO's. It is expected that this would be accom-
plished in about six weeks. Curricula would be developed in cooperation
with the Pasture Development and Livestock Research Advisors, who would also
be expected to participate in the instruction. Annual 1-week seminars would
be held for FDO's. The Seed Production and Processing Advisor would be
expected to conduct short-course and on-the-job training of staff engaged
in seed production. New inseminators for the AI program would receive 3-4
weeks formal training and then work with an experienced inseminator for
about one month to gain practical experience. Training requirements in
the area of disease control would be determined on the basis of the Advisor's
report. The recommended staffing of project breeding station would require
an increase of about 40 university trained officers over the project period.
Reassignment of existing staff from administrative positions within LDD
could meet about half of this requirement, and there are three universities



- 20 -
in Thailand with agricultural faculties, graduates of which could be recruited
for other positions.
B. Office of the Under Secretary of State Ministry of Agriculture
6.11      Under Secretary's Department:  The Under Secretary of State of the
Ministry of Agriculture is charged with overseeing the activities of line
departments within the Ministry and with carrying out activities outside the
purview of those departments. Divisions of the Under Secretary's Department
include Research Coordination (regional centres), Agricultural Relations,
Agricultural Economics, Foreign Agriculture, and Agricultural Aviation. DPO
is a wholly government owned corporation responsible to the Under-Secretary
of State, and funds for training facilities under the project would be
channelled through the budget of the Office of the Under-Secretary. The
General Manager of DPO would direct execution of this component of the project.
The dairy feasibility study/project preparation would be carried out under
supervision of the Under Secretary or his designate within the department.
C. Reporting Procedures
6.12      Quarterly progress reports would be prepared in the office of the
Director General, LDD, for all components executed by that department, and
by DPO for the training component. These would be assembled in the Office
of the Under Secretary together with a progress statement of the dairy
study, and combined quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six weeks after the close of the reporting period.
VII. YIELDS AND PRICES
Yields
7.01      Pasture yields vary extensively in the region, depending on bota-
nical composition, soil fertility, and the degree of scrub cover. Similarly,
the dry matter yield increases as a result of the project will vary, but an
average increase of 350 kg per rai (2,100 kg per ha) has been assumed. The
conversion rate of this incremental feed would be higher than the present
average on low quality forage species, and a rate of 20 Kg D.M. to 1 Kg
liveweight gain has been used. Native zebu cattle achieve a mature weight
of 350 Kg and F1 Brahman crosses are assumed to reach 450 Kg at maturity.
Yields of Townsville stylo seed in the region have been known to exceed 50 Kg
per rai (300 Kg per ha) on well fertilized and managed plots but, for purposes
of this report, an average yield of 30 Kg per rai (180 Kg per ha) has been
assumed. Calving rates on a national herd basis are about 45%, but herd
management among owners of cross bred cattle is somewhat better, and would be



- 21 -
further improved under the project. A weaning rate of 60% is assumed after
two years. Subsequent deaths to maturity are taken as 4%.
Prices
7.02      Prices for meat and native cattle and buffalo have been taken as
those prevailing at the time of appraisal ($ 10/Kg for meat; % 2,000 for
cattle; $ 4,000 for female buffalo, and $ 4,500 for male buffalo). Present
prices for Brahman cattle are very high, as are prices for Brahman crosses.
Prices used in the report reflect a scale of premiums for size and breed
value over native prices, but are only 10-50% of prevailing prices. The
use of lower prices is justified on the grounds of future supply increases
and the diminished role of Brahman cattle as a status symbol. The sale of
fodder is not a common practice in Thailand, and all project production has
been converted to meat value rather than priced as fodder.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project would improve the yields and nutritive value of about
500,000 rai (83,000 ha) of fallow and permanent pasture areas and accelerate
the genetic and health improvement of cattle, primarily for beef and draught
purposes. Changes would be effected by the strengthening and expansion of
public sector services to the livestock industry. At present these services,
including disease control and AI, are provided free of charge in most cases
and one innovation under the project would be the introduction of a fee
structure for AI, the one service wherein benefits accrue directly to
identifiable individuals. However, the balance of project costs would
continue to be public sector outlays, and no additional cash expenses to
livestock owners would result from their participation in the project.
Quantified Benefits
8.02      Development Within Intensive Areas:  Pasture development within
intensive areas is assumed to be an essential prerequisite to overall herd
improvements. It is further assumed that at present one half of the cattle
in the average village are 50% Brahman crosses and that the project would
only double the present rate of herd improvement. On this conservative
basis, the project would result in an increase in the value of annual sales
per village of % 20,100 (US$1,015) at year ten and the value of village herd
would have increased by 28,300 (US$1,430) at that time. Over 640 project
units, these figures would be 9 12.9 million (US$650,000) and 9 18.1 million
(US$915,000), respectively. See Annex 13 Table 5. 1/
1/   In addition, owners of buffalo would benefit from increased forage
supply, resulting in more rapid growth and increased draught capacity.



- 22 -
8.03      Pasture Development Outside Intensive Areas:  During the project
period, about 110,000 rai (18,330 ha) would be broadcast sown with Townsville
stylo. It is estimated that dry matter yields would increase by 350 Kg per
rai in the third year after sowing. On the basis of assumptions presented
in Annex 14, the value of this incremental forage production is estimated,
at full development, to be $ 19.3 million (US$975,000) per year. However, it
is estimated that only 10-20% of this value would be realized in the sale of
slaughter cattle; the balance would be reflected in increased work capacity
and selling price of draught cattle.
8.04      Cross Breeding Outside Intensive Areas:  During the project period,
artificial inseminations outside the intensive areas would be expected to
increase from 8,000 cows per year to 73,000. Based on the estimated ratio of
Holstein Friesian and Brahman inseminations in Annex 6, Table 1 and stated
price assumptions, the market value of Fl crosses at full project development
would be approximately B 147.5 million per year (US$7.4 million).
8.05      Quantified benefit streams and related costs are presented in
Annex 14 Table 1. The project produces positive and very attractive net
economic benefits after year 2. However, this investment capitalizes on a
number of costly infrastructure and research efforts such as the bilaterally
financed central AI facilities (Netherlands) and pasture research (Australia
and New Zealand). The projected 68% economic rate of return for quantified
benefits and related costs must be viewed in this context.
Other Benefits
8.06      Vaccine Production and Disease Control:  The project would result
in a 60% increase in vaccine production for diseases affecting cattle.
Together with improved disease control measures expected to result from the
project study, it is reasonable to assume that this increase would reduce
mortality by at least 10-15%. Significant improvements in productivity
would also be realized among protected animals.
8.07      Dairy Industry: The financial performance of DPO would be signi-
ficantly improved with the strengthening of its management. The use of DPO
technical resources in the training of Cooperative Department staff would
improve the extension assistance to cooperative dairy operations throughout
Thailand. In addition, about 30,000 crossbred dairy cows would be added
to the national dairy herd over an eight-year period. Financial evaluations
of private dairying, while not involving project investment, would be used by
BAAC in its assessment of a long-term lending program for private milk pro-
duction, and the feasibility study/project preparation to be carried out under
the project could result in financial assistance for a major dairy expansion.
8.08      Other Benefits:  Several of the pasture species, other than Towns-
ville stylo, would have immediate field application, particularly Siratro.
In addition, research efforts directed at solutions to problems of the North-
east livestock producers should result in improved recommendations in the
fields of pasture management, cross-breeding, calving dates, and supplemental



- 23 -
feeding, and initial work on buffalo should identify potential improvements
in the productivity of buffalo which outnumber cattle 7:4 in Thailand.
Distribution of Benefits
8.09      Quantified benefits in terms of additional livestock sales are
expected to accrue to about 171,000 families with the following distribution:
95,000 families, average % 1,800 per year (70% over present income); 40,000
families, % 650 per year (25% over present income; and 36,000 families, E 160
per year (6% over present income).
Environmental Impact
8.10      Townsville stylo is being introduced in the Northeast to increase
carrying capacity of the land. However it will have the added advantages
of supplementing the nitrogen requirements for crop production, reducing
the tendency for over-grazing and thus will contribute to soil conservation.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) A report of RTG's interdepartmental committee reviewing
livestock laws and regulations would be submitted to the
Bank for information and discussion within 12 months of
the date of signature of the proposed loan (5.05);
(b) A fee structure would be introduced for Al services which would
be adequate to recover at least 50% of reasonable operating
costs by year five of the project (5.10); and
(c) BAAC would review the project's pasture improvement program
annually and prepare, in consultation with the Director General,
LDD, an annual credit support program, a copy of which would
be supplied to the Bank for information and comment (5.20).
9.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$5.0 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Marketing
I. Demand for Cattle
Apparent Beef Consumption
1.        Slaughter cattle are generally a byproduct from draft stock.
Approximately 400,000 cattle and 500,000 buffalo are slaughtered annually,
although data on actual kill cannot be obtained because only about one
third of the animals pass through licensed slaughter houses. Per capita
beef consumption is estimated at about 5 Kg per year, roughly 40% of total
meat consumption (pork 50%, poultry 10%). Regional consumption patterns
and levels differ significantly. The consumption of meat in the Bangkok
metropolitan area differs markedly from the rest of the country: total
meat consumption per capita is estimated at approximately 20 Kg per year
in Bangkok of which 13 Kg is beef. Significant volumes of meat are also
imported from the United States, for military personnel, and from Australia
and New Zealand.
Draft Cattle
2.        There is no organized market structure for draft animals.  The
Northeast supplies a significant number of animals annually to the rest
of the country although exact figures are not available. Sales take place
generally at the farm level, and suppliers are reluctant even to organize
village level sales, maintaining that the present informal arrangements
provide better prices. A premium of % 1,000 per animal is normally paid
over meat prices for animals with draft potential, and trained teams of
native cattle have brought as much as $ 12,000 during the past year,
although i 6-7,000 is more representative. Buffalo command a premium over
cattle because of their size advantage.
Export Markets
3.        The demand for export meat from Thailand has, until recently,
been almost exclusively for live slaughter animals. The main market is
Hong Kong followed by Singapore and Malaysia. Total exports in 1972 were
18,000 head of cattle and 24,500 head of buffalo of which 55% of cattle
and 75% of buffalo went to Hong Kong. Only the Southern Region is certified
disease-free, and cattle moving into the region must have vaccinations and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
a certificate or pass through one of the seven quarantine stations. Meat
exports from Thailand, although limited, now show a rising trend as the
Preserved Food Organization at Ban Pong has recently started exporting about
100 tons of cooked frozen meat per month. On an annual basis this represents
15,000 head of cattle.
2. Marketing of Slaughter Cattle
4.        As indicated above, only about one third of total cattle killing
is done in licensed slaughter houses. This is primarily due to the fact
that many slaughtered animals are below the minimum slaughter age (cattle: 8
years male, 15 years female, buffalo: 15 years). Slaughtering charges of
about i 50 per head, poor facilities, and the risk of inspection and
carcass rejection are further disincentives.
5.        There is very little processing or storage of meat.  Cattle for
local slaughter are bought directly from the farmer by the butcher.
Slaughtering takes place during the early hours of the morning, and meat
is offered in the market the same morning. There are six major assembly
points for cattle shipments to Bangkok.
Government Controls on Meat Marketing
6.        Government controls on cattle exports, age of slaughter cattle,
and meat prices were originally introduced to benefit the urban consumer
and to ensure an adequate supply of draft power for agricultural production.
The effectiveness and merit of these controls at present, particularly of
meat prices and slaughter ages, is highly questionable. Price controls are
not rigourously enforced, and are frequently adjusted in pace with pre-
vailing market prices. Where ceilings do present a selling constraint,
butchers merely increase the share of meat sold in the highest quality
price bracket. Slaughter age limits are the major deterrent to the use
of licensed slaughter houses, and have resulted in a large illegal slaughter-
ing capacity which is widespread and efficient. Furthermore, to the extent
that limits are respected, they preclude early culling and result in a
national herd which is inefficient and in which genetic improvement requires
significantly more time.
7.        The Livestock Development Department is officially charged with
tiic implementation of livestock laws and regulations, but it is inadequately
equipped to do so. Livestock security is a serious problem in Thailand,
and farmers always bed cattle under or adjacent to the house for this
reason. While it is LDD which is responsible to prevent rustling. it's
staff are not given powers of arrest and detention. As a result, rustling
and slaughter of stolen cattle are common in many parts of the country,
including the Northeast. This indiscriminate slaughter has resulted in



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the loss of some good breeding stock, but its control is closely linked
withl the eilforcement of other regulations, some of which are not appropriate
at the present time.
3. Review of Marketing Regulations
8.        A committee has recently been established under the chairmanship
of the Director General, LDD, to review all livestock laws and regulations.
While the regulations described above do not threaten the success of the
project, the long term development of the livestock industry would seem to
require significant changes:
I.   A reduction, or preferably the elimination, of minimum age
limits on slaughter cattle and buffalo would permit more
efficient herd management and promote the use of licensed
slaughterhouses. This latter, in turn would ensure the
utilization of expanded slaughterhouse facilities with
improved hygienic conditions and the development of a
meat processing industry. The resultant decline in illegal
slaughter would facilitate the exposure and control of
rustling and slaughter of stolen cattle.
II.   Elimination of meat price controls would result in higher
farm prices for cattle and permit market discrimination on
quality, thereby encouraging improved livestock husbandry.
III.   The Livestock Development Department should be provided with
the legal powers and the resources to carry out its mandate
to enforce livestock regulations.



Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Industry
Production
1.        Dairying in Thailand is based almost entirely on small privately-
owned herds of three to ten cows. Traditional producers stall feed their
cows under or near the farm house, while a more modern pattern has been
developed for a colony near Muak Lak in which individual farms of 25 rai
are devoted entirely to pasture production.  Concentrate feeding is comon
practice although all concentrate ingredients are domestically produced
by-products. Most milk producers belong to, and market through, a coop-
erative.   A status summary of the six major cooperatives appears as Table I
to this Annex. Fresh milk production at present is about 31 tons per day
exclusive of on-farm consumption. In addition, Foremost Co., Bangkok, re-
constitutes imported powder to produce about 75 tons per day fresh milk
equivalent. A summary of dairy imports in recent years appears as Table 2.
Processing
2.        Although the Dairy Promotion Organization plant at Muak Lak and
the Bangkok plant of Foremost Co., processing 11 tons and 4 tons of fresh
milk respectively per day, are the largest facilities, the majority of
dairies are cooperatively owned. These are small, inefficient plants with
a daily throughput of 1-2 tons per day. DPO has contracted for an ultra-
high temperature sterilizer and two asceptic packagers which will have a
throughput capacity of 28 tons per day and a break-even volume of about 10
tons per day which is expected by 1978.
Markets
3.        Currently the demand for fresh liquid milk is strong and is
being supplied as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Bangkok Market       Total Sales
ton/day              ton/day
Fresh
D.P.0.                               8.2                 11
Foremost - Raiburi
Ayudhya                  3                    3
Chiang Mai                           -                    1.4
Local small farmers                  9                    9
Ayudhya                              -                    4
Nong Po                              1.8                  1.8
Ratchburi                            -                    1.1
22.0                 31.3
Recombined (Foremost)                -                   75
Canned (Imported)                                         1.7
Total                                        108
4.        The apparent total market in Bangkok is 97 ton per day or 27.7
m ton liquid milk per day per million population which is within the range
of other Asian cities (compare: 16.7 in Seoul, 35 in Rangoon). The Foremost
Co. dominates the market which they have created since 1965. Their
marketing capability is unequalled and they see no limit to demand in the
long term. Many market areas are not yet covered because of inadequate
distribution facilities (even in Bangkok). In the short term occasional
milk surpluses appear and the very small units are then forced to sell
milk at discount rates to the larger units. The industry will need diver-
sified processing to ensure utilization of all raw milk production.
5.        Because of its wide distribution network and its dominant market
position, the Foremost Co. is able to absorb the occasional milk excesses
which occur at both DPO and the cooperative dairies. Also milk of fair
quality, but rejected by DPO, is acceptable to Foremost. In the past the
industry has been too weak and fragmented to negotiate fair milk prices
and therefore distrusts Foremost. This is changing with the increased
strength of DPO. Furthermore, increases in the world trading prices of
milk products means that importation of milk components is now less attract-
ive than previously. This forces processors of recombined products to take
an interest in the procurement of fresh milk. Current market prices:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Equivalent Price/
Brand                     Package         Price             Liter
DPO fresh                       225 cc         2.50 B          11.1 B
Foremost recombined             1/2 pt         2.75 B          11.62 B
Imports
6.        The FOB price of imported skim milk powder increased from $.25/lb
in 1973 to $.48/lb in 1974 (92% increase). The actual material costs for
recombined milk are influenced by the policies setting the duty charged on
imports. These policies are established to satisfy the needs of supply for
the recombination of sweetened condensed and evaporated milk markets. (The
import of skim milk powder in 1973 was probably eight times higher than
that required for the recombined liquid milk trade). Maximum prices are
set for some recombined dairy products and during 1974 the increase of
component prices forced the recombining companies to apply for product
price increases. To partially offset this application Government agreed
in July 1974 to reduce the basic import duty level from 25% to 2.5% there-
by reducing component costs. This has not offset the trading price in-
crease in skim milk powder. In efforts to cut their losses, companies
have substituted cheaper vegetable oils for butterfat, are operating their
plants well below capacity, and are vigorously pressing Government to
increase product prices.
7.        Economic justification for domestic milk production is based on
the following preliminary comparison:
/1
Cost of _...ebLic raw milk (FAS Dairy)           4
Cost of imported materials # 3.62 per kg reconstituted
homogenized milk (cif prices)
Less duty                       .25
3.37
Plus reconstitution             .30
$ 3.67       $ 3.7/kg
Adjusted for 20% foreign exchange premium    $ 4.4/kg
Present Functions of Public Sector Agencies
8.        There are three government entities which are concerned with
dairy development in Thailand: the Dairy Dairy Promotion Organization,
the Cooperatives Department, and the Livestock Development Department.
/1   Range of prices late 1974 $ 4.0 - 4.6/kg.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The Dairy Promotion Organization (DPO)
9.        DPO was established in 1971 to assume the assets and functions of
the Thai-Danish Dairy Farm (TDDF) which had been set up in 1962 at Muak Lak
as a demonstration dairy farm, cattle breeding center and training center.
Farming operations have been developed very satisfactorily over the past
12 years. The dairy stock has been built up from 986 females (Red Sindhi,
Jersey cross, Brown Swiss cross, Sahiwal and Thai native) to a present herd
of 1,700 cows of which 520-560 are milking. Average annual milk production
has varied from 1,428-2,354 kg per head since 1966. 1/
10.       DPO also has a processing unit with a present throughput of
about 11 tons of fresh milk daily. The milk is supplied by DPOts own farm
and by private farmers in the area, 120 of whom are its former trainees
who have been settled on a Land Settlement Department colony adjacent to
DPO. The quality standards observed at this unit are higher than those
normally attained in tropical conditions, primarily as a result of twice
daily collection of milk and careful training for milking personnel in the
fundamentals of hygiene. In the absence of reliable accounting information
the mission has estimated the processing results on the basis of data for
September 1974. (See Tables 3 and 4 for financial statements). Control
over losses of milk in the plant and leakages in plastic bags and a reduction
of unsold output (19% in September 1974 2/) would improve the financial
performance. DPO is expanding its processing operation 3/ and the mission
estimates that the new facility would be profitable at about 10 tons fresh
milk input per day.
11.       DPO is managed by a full time Director who is responsible to a
Board of Directors consisting of representatives of appropriate government
departments. The present Managing Director is 58 years old and the retire-
ment age in the Thai Civil Service is 60. Although there is provision for
a Deputy Director, none has been appointed so far.
12.       DPO has a competent technical staff, many of whom have been
trained in Denmark. However, the Thai-Danish dairy farm was established
as a technical demonstration unit, and neither its structure nor the
experience of its management was adequate to deal with the commerical
activities developed by the entity and this weakness continues to exist
in DPO. Audits of the accounts prepared by DPO since its inception
1/   Trace element deficiencies have been identified as a significant problem
at DPO.
2/   This position has already improved.
3/   By purchasing an ultra high temperature sterilizer and 2 asceptic
packers having an effective throughput capacity of 28 tons per 14
hours of packing daily (see Table 5).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
In 1971 liad not been concluded at the time of the appraisal.  Due mainly
to) staff constraints, the accounts were in arrears and budgetary control
had not been introduced. Credit control is also weak. Recommendations to
overcome these weaknesses are presented as part of Annex 8 - Assistance to
the Dairy Industry.
13.       It is also essential that the role of DPO and its place in the
dairy industry of Thailand should be defined by the Government of Thailand.
Once this is agreed, then it would be advisable to set up a study of DPO
in order to recommend a suitable scheme of reorganization to fit in with the
required objective.  Training and extension services carried out by DPO
should be funded separately by the Government.
14.       Cooperatives Department (CD) Officially, the CD is expected to
concentrate on production of milk, leaving processing to DPO and private
enterprise.  But the department does assist five cooperative owned dairies
and has been the channel for Danish and German technical and financial
assistance to dairying outside Muak Lak. Despite its demonstrated concern
for dairy farmers, the CD does not possess adequate expertise within its
staff to carry on or expand its advisory services to producers and process-
ors.
15.       Livestock Development Department (LDD)  With the creation of DPO
and the development of cooperative dairying, LDD has tended to neglect
research and development for the dairy industry. A small production herd
is kept at Tab Kwong with daily shipments being made to the nearby Muak
Lak plant, and cows with some milking potential are to be found on most
other stations. But the department does not conduct any substantive work
on dairy cattle at the present time, and its staff have been divorced from
any formal training they may have received.



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF DAIRY COOPERATIVES
Ayuthya             Nakon Prathom          Chieng mai             Ra.buri          Nongpo                 Muaklak
No. of members         260                      26                   120                  340                435                    120
No. of supplies        110                      15                    90                  290                180                    120
Milk supply:
1974                950 kg/day              200                  1800                 3900               2000                  11161
Previous             170=1500             171=700
'71=3000             kg/day
Order of             '72/3=4ooo
establishment       1st, 1968            2nd, 1971             5th, 1974            3rd, 1973                                4th, 1973
Other               Danish assistance    Danish assistance    German assistance.  Danish assistance   Controlled by         Associated w/DPO.
for bldg. & plant,  for bldg. & plant,                                             Comittee Royal
value 1M.B.          value 1,000,000 B.                                             Patronage.
Milk payout 4.25                          Milk payout 4.25     Milk payout 4B/1.  Danish Aid now        Av. milk price 4.55
B/1 expected.                             B/1.                                      establishing        B/kg.
Supply exceeds                           new plant, 2000
sales.                                   lphr HTST.
50% of milk sold                                               50% of milk sold    Av. milk price       The Coop operates a
to Foremost.                                                   to Foremost.         4.21 B/kg.          service store and
milk payments from
80 kg/day sold                                                                                          DPO are routed through
locally.                                                                                                it.
6% sold locally.    Selling pasteur-
300 kg/day sold                                                                    ized milk in plas-
to Nongpo plant.                                                                    tic bags at B2.50/
225cc.
8% pasteurized      Has IFCT loan of
& sold Bangkok.     18,000,000, 11%
effectively/10 yrs
Balance to a va-   which includes
riety of buyers.   D.Kr.860,000 for
April 7, 1975                                                                                           rebuilding.



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE DAIRY INDUSTRY IN THAILAND
IMPORTS OF DAIRY PRODUTS INTO THAILAND
1965 and 1969-1973
1965           1969            1970             1971            1972            1973
m.t.   miIL$   m.t.   miIL0   m.t.   miILY   m.t.   miILO   mot.   miILj   m.t.   milLg
Whole milk and cream
sterilized or pasteurized             2,688   24.1   5,593   52.1   5,471   45.6   1,735   16.4   2,039   27.7           615    9.5
Skimmed milk, sterilized
or pasteurized                        8,533   48.8      971    5.8   2,466   12.7       767    4.8      106    1.0
Condensed milk and cream               35,866  280.9  12,437   99.8   8,762   80.0   1,579   15.6         226    3.0       953   15.0
Skimmed milk powder                     2,029   14.0  20,544  117.0  19,006   93.2  20,463  138.2  17,267  189.5  26,362  230.5
Whole milk and cream powder, incl.
powdered milk for infants             2,278   50.5   5,276   93.1   4,429   41.2   4,289   91.2   5,675  157.3   5,362  147.4
Other milk, dry block, powder            n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   3,420   26.4   1,636   23.8   1,860   23.1   4,366   53.0
Butterfat                                 558   13.4   7,327   96.9   6,193   76.8   7,003  121.5   2,852   60.1   2,205   48.0
Butter                                     261    6.1     496    7.7      484    7.8       374    7.2      239    6.9      188    5.3
Ghee                                      127    3.1      436    5.9       45      .8   1,140    8.4       233    4.7      288    5.6
Cheese                                     76    2.0      187    4.0      186    4.0      298    4.6      150    4.4       180    6.1
Other milk products                        -     54.1      -    110.4    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.         -      -
Total Value                                     497.0           592.7           438.5           431.7           477.7           520.4
Source: Department of Customs, Bangkok
Estimated fresh milk equivalent 1/  160,000           310,000         300,000         286,000         230,000         315,000
(tons)
1/ Fresh milk equivalents:
whole and skimmed milk                 =1
condensed milk                         =  3
milk powder, butterfat, butter, ghee =  8
cheese                                 =  9                                                                          CD
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 2
THAILAND                               Table 3
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Promotion Organization
Estimate of Financial Viability of DPO Milk Processing Enterprise
(for the month of September 1 974)
Cost
Item                              Basis                     Cost (Baht)
1. Materials
a) Milk                    Milk received x 4.55 B/kg              1,951,950
b) Sugar                   Sugar used x 4.50 B/kg                    13,027
c) Packages                 (Carton & plastic bags used
x unit cost) + 1% loss               388,891
Total                                                             2,353,868
2.  Oloerati,onal
a) Labor                   Actual staff x av. wage each grade        54,477
b) Fuel                    Actual useage x cost                      24,057
c) Power                   Estimate                                  18,000
d) Water                   Estimate                                   6,000
e) Repairs & maintenance   4% on investment bldg. & plant            13,340
Total                                                               116,141
3. Overheads
a) Depreciation            Plant 15% pa C.V. bldg. 5% pa C.V.        58,350
Sales                                    32,500
Total                                                                90,850
4. Products
a) Yoghurt                 Estimate cost of production               38,422
b) Cream                   Package cost only                          8,381
Total                                                                h6,803
Total at factory door                 2,607,662
Transport to Market                      15,000
2,622,662
5. Sales Cost
a) Petrol, oil             Actual from records                       13,142
b) Salaries                Actual from records                       29,000
c) Bldg. rental            Actual from records                        9,500
d) Phone                   Estimate                                     500
e) Vehicle repairs         5% of capital value                       16,250
cost of Sales                            68,392
Total cost to wholesale point         2,691,054
Income                     Sales income, all products             2,663.147
April 7, 1975                            Operating loss                            27,907






ANNEX 2
Table ,
THAILAlND
IIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Promotion Organization
Monthly Cost Projection for Operation of Ultra-High Temperature Sterilizer
Two packers operating five hours produce 12.6 tons product daily.
Milk                                                 1,701,000
Packages                                               537,200
Power, fuel, supplies, labor                           295,000
Repairs and maintenance                                 53,200
Transport                                                15,000
Sales                                                    34,000
Advertisement                                            30,000
Package Losses                                            8,000
Total operating costs                                             2,673,400
Depreciation/Equipment (15%)                            105,830
/Building (5%)                               1,700
107,530
Other overheads - say 2% on sales                                    69,54o
Total overhead
(excluding interest on equipment loan)                          2,850,h70
Sales revenue (wholesale)                                         3,477,ooo
Profit                                                              626,530
Percentage of profit or sales = 18%
NOTES:  1.  Sales revenue permits 5% losses and allows for retail price
10% above that of pasteurized milk.
2.  Package costs 0.44 B/500 ml pack and 0.29 B/200 ml pack + paper
import duty 50% + 1n9 package losses. Both machines operate
five hours. Cost variation with size not estimated because
actual packer contract not available.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasture Development Program
Present Situation
1.        Bovine production in Northeast Thailand is severely limited by
tite forage availability and quality in the existing grasslands, and tropical
pasture legumes are essential for any large-scale development. Total avail-
ability cannot be significantly increased without an improvement in soil
fertility, the use of well adapted improved forage species, or a combina-
tion of both. Overcoming one of the major soil deficiencies, that of
nitrogen, with the use of artificial fertilizers would be extremely costly
at present prices, and the ability of legumes to fix atmospheric nitrogen
must be exploited.
2.        The permanent native pastures are dominated by the Graaminea,
including species of Chrysopogon, Eragrostics, Heteropogon, Brachiaria,
Paspalum, Dactyloctenium, and Arundinaria. While most of these are well
adapted to survive under heavy grazing pressure, they are relatively
unproductive on the poor soils of the region. Of the native/naturalized
legumes, Alysicarpus vaginalis and Desmodium triflorum are outstanding for
their persistence and spread throughout the region; but although both are
very useful, they are not highly productive.
Considerations for a Pasture Development Strategy
3.        For the selection of suitable species for pasture improvement in
tiie Northeast, a number of factors should be considered.
4.        There is no part of the Northeast which is climatically unsuited
to some kind of pasture improvement. The area lies between 150 and 180N,
at an average altitude of about 200 m, and with rainfall ranging from 600
to 1,500 mm. The long dry season suggests that self-regenerating annual
l_gume might have an advantage in survival, but well adopted perennials
could be more useful in the early-wet and early-dry seasons.
5.        In the future, regional soil-testing will determine the number
and extent of deficient elements in the northeast soils, and indicate those
deficiencies which might be corrected economically; sulphur is one such
possibility. However, general fertilizer application cannot be considered
at this time (single superphosphate and potash retail at more than US$300
per ton with other fertilizer prices correspondingly high). The species



ANNEX 3
Page 2
selected must be capable of worthwhile production levels on poor soils and
particularly low phosphorus soils. Since eventually the disemination and
extension program at the village level must depend on a large number of
officers who will not be pasture experts the species should be adapted to
a wide range of soils within Northeast.
6.        Establishment costs must be very low, and ease of establishment
over a range of conditions is of critical importance. This does not preclude
presowing treatments such as burning or heavy grazing, but does preclude
convential and expensive land preparation techniques.
7.        To be widely accepted and successful, the species must not require
any radical modification of present management practice, in which continuous
and heavy grazing is normal. Fortunately tropical legume species generally
respond better to continuous than to rotational grazing.
8.        It is almost imperative that the species need be sown only once,
which requires partly good judgment at the time of sowing, but also a
persistent species. In the project area, most farmers have had no prior
experience with pasture improvement, and it would be difficult to promote
a species or a concept if it has previously failed. In this context the
selection of a good and reliable species for promotion is critical.
9.        There must be no possibility of the introduced species becoming
a serious weed of crops.
10.       Although the regional average stocking rate on communally grazed
land has been put at about 0.3 animals per ha the majority of cattle are
grazed on much more heavily stocked land. Where there is a high proportion
of land under cultivation, the stocking rate fluctuates markedly, with the
greatest stress occuring in the wet season and productivity under extreme
wet season grazing pressure is a major criterion. (In other areas, the
ability to produce quality feed to supplement the mature native grasses or
crop stubbles may assume more importance.)
11.       Selected species must be adapted to survive under continued close
grazing. In areas where fires occur commonly, such as in the open diptero-
carp forests, tolerance to dry-season burning is an important attribute.
12.       In the harsh Northeast environment, survival may be as important
as potential productivity, and it may be an advantage to survival that
species be relatively unpalatable at some growth stage.
13.       Species with specific rhizobial requirements present difficulties
in a large dissemination project, where there are problems in maintaining
the inoculum and a risk of ineffective inoculation.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
14.       The species must have good seed production characteristics.  It
sliould set sufficient seed under field grazing conditions to increase in
denisity, to spread from the initial sowing site, and to ensure long term
survival. Also, because of the huge quantities of seed required for a large
oversowing program, and the inevitably high cost of imported seed, potential
seed production of the species within Thailand is an important selection
criterion.
Townsville Stylo
15.       Townsville stylo (Stylosanthes humilis) is the best adapted pasture
legume species with which a regional program could be started immediately.
An annual (sometimes biennial) it has already proved itself to be well
suited to the relatively dry Northeast climate. It avoids the dry season
stress because of its annual habit, but plants are also quite tolerant of
dry conditions. Townsville stylo is suited to the poor, acid soils of the
region, and is remarkably efficient in the extraction of soil phosphorus
from low-phosphorus soils. Freely drained, light textured soils are
generally preferred. However, it will produce well on a range of soils
and has been found satisfactory on some heavy soils and on soils with a
tight surface structure.
16.       The species may be established by oversowing, without cultivation
or inputs of fertilizer, into areas where competing vegetation is controlled
by grazing or other means.  Generally, it will establish most readily where
stock are most concentrated, and in the short term, overgrazing may be
advantageous. In similar areas of Northern Australian, where stocking
rates are usually much lower than in the Northeast, Townsville stylo has
established very readily in heavily grazed areas, such as around watering
points, but rathier less readily where competing grasses are not controlled
by grazing. It is normal practice for cattle owners to concentrate stock
on the area to be sown, and to graze it heavily before and after sowing to
control grass growth and facilitate spread. Such management is generally
unnecessary in the Northeast, where overall grazing pressure is sufficient
to check grass growtih; but it may be successfully employed in the open
dipterocrop forest areas of the Northeast, where unchecked Arundinaria spp.
(13amboo grass) is a vigorous competitor.
17.       Under continued close defoliation, the plant habit is modified,
and the stems spread along the ground, affording some protection from
grazing. Adequate seed is set for regeneration the following year, even
under quite severe conditions of moisture stress, low soil fertility, and
heavy grazing. Because of a proportion of hard seed, germination occurs
over a long period, and there is little risk of completely losing a stand
if a severe dry period follows early germinating rains. Dry season burning
is not a great hazard to regeneration because much of the seed is unaffected.
is.       The seed yielding ability under good conditions equips the species
well for use in the project. Seed yields of over 600 kg/ha have been



ANNEX 3
Page 4
recorded in Australia, and yields of 200 kg/ha are common in the Northeast,
wlhere the reliably dry December-January period is convenient for seed
harvesting. Seed collection need not be sophisticated, and hand methods
suitable for small areas can be used.
19.       Although the species is very persistent in grazed areas, it will
not become a serious weed of crops. It is relatively intolerant of water
logging, and poses no threat to rice; it is also intolerant of shade, and
will not complete well with rapidly growing upland crops. Established
stands are easily ploughed in. In fact, in Northern Australia, nitrogen
fixed by the legume is sometimes exploited by a subsequent crop of sorghum.
Such practice has a definite application in the Northeast where the cost of
nitrogen fertilizer is so high. Townsville stylo is not specific in its
rhizobial requirements, and modulates freely in soils of the region. How-
ever, the contribution of nitrogen to the soil in a particular area will
be minimal where grazing pressure is heavy and stock are housed at night.
20.       In some areas in Northern Australia, the wet-season dominance of
Townsville stylo results in bare ground, susceptible to erosion, in the
late dry season/early wet season. This bare ground is not expected to
occur in the Northeast, except where the existing sward is very sparse,
and in these areas the erosion hazard would not be increased. Generally
the persistent Chrysopogon, Heteropogon etc. will remain. Where roadside
sowing is involved, the increased grazing pressure will be transient, and
rapid spread to adjacent areas will prevent the deterioration of the road
shoulder from increased dry-season grazing. Rice paddy bunds are already
very heavily grazed and the persistent grass species there will not disappear
with the introduction of the legume.
21.       Townsville stylo has the great advantage of having been success-
fully sown already in many parts of the Northeast. Its biggest disadvantage
is limited production in the early wet and early dry seasons, when an
adapted perennial could perform better. However, most perennial species
could not persist under the heavy dry season grazing. As better varieties
become available, and are tested under village conditions in the Northeast,
they could be fitted into the pasture development program. Other valuable
legumes, such as Siratro, Perennial stylo, and Leucaena leucocophala, have
a definite but more restricted application.
Program Implementation
22.       The areas for improvement would be selected by the Senior Pasture
Officer, assisted by departmental staff from the particular breeding
station, Changwat, and Amphur offices, and with prior recourse to aerial
photographs. The village would be regarded as the unit for development,
but the program would be quite flexible, and other units, such as the
Tambon, could be used where this is more convenient. The major criteria
for selection of villages for improvement within the defined project
area would be:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(a) interest of local farmers;
(b) suitability of land type and available area; and
(c) complimentarity with animal breeding and disease control
programs.
23.       The planning and initial extension work for each area would be
undertaken during the dry season prior to development, and the village
chief, or pooyaibahn, would assist in the organization of meetings and
of the labor force for seed distribution. All seed would be available at
the Changwat stations for distribution before the beginning of the wet
season, and a concerted effort would aim at completing sowing before the
end of July, but preferably immediately prior to the wet season -- seed
harvesting ants are not a problem, and the early wet season is generally a
time of peak labour demand for cultivation.  In the first year of an
average site development, about 200 rai of heavily grazed land would be
sown.  The suggested mean sowing rate would be 0.5 kg per rai, but the
distribution of total seed allocated to each site could vary.  There would
be no use of fertilizer and no additional fencing.  By the end of the
second season, the stand is expected to be sufficiently dense, and the
potential benefits obvious enough to inspire local interest in the next
stage of development.  At the beginning of the third season, a further
400 rai would be sown. Most sowing would be on communally grazed private
or public land. Farmers sowing within fenced areas would be obliged to
return the same amount of seed to the project subsequently. Total fenced
area would not exceed 30% of the sown area in a village; fenced area of
any one farmer would not exceed 10% of total area sown.
24.       Seed would be provided free of charge for the first two seasons,
and subsequently a nominal charge would be considered, depending on assess-
ment of the possible difficulties involved, and the extent to which a
charge would provide a constraint to the rate of development. Credit for
cultivation or fertilizer would not be provided by the project. However,
where individuals so wish to develop a pasture more intensively, or by
using other species, advice and small quantities of seed would be provided.
Phasing of Development
25.       In the first year about 40 villages would be improved.  At full
development about 150 new sites would be sown each year, and 150 third-
season sites, within the area controlled by the improved breeding stations.
Excess seed and technical assistance would be provided outside of this
controlled area, through other stations and agencies. In addition, seed
would be distributed to the Livestock Department Breeding and Sub-Stations,
and to the Forage Crop Stations. The projected seed distribution is shown
in Table 1.
26.       The areas improved first would be the heavily grazed open land
in public and private areas, including roadsides, land exhausted by



ANNEX 3
Page 6
croppitig, paddy bunds, and other waste areas. The improvement of a large
portion of the available grazing area relatively quickly would distribute
graziag pressure more evenly and is thus preferable to protecting smaller
improved areas by fencing. Sowing a communal grazing area at a moderate
seeding rate, and allowing for subsequent increase in density is similarly
preferable to sowing a fraction of the area at a correspondingly much
higher seeding rate.  Invasion of grasses and other weeds will not be a
problem under the heavy grazing pressure. Paddy bunds may occupy 5-10% of
the total paddy area and legume establishment would provide a valuable on
site supplement to the low-protein rice stubble during the dry season.
27.       Yields will vary greatly, mostly within the range 500-3,000 kg/ha/
year, and maximum density will generally be attained in the second or third
year.  Spread of seed to adjacent areas will depend on stock movements and
the seed yield. Once established, the species will maintain itself, and
will not require specific attention.
Staffing and Promotion
28.       Field development under the project, including pasture development,
would be based on the use of Field Development Officers (FDO) to establish
and maintain contact with farmers in the intensive areas. Responsibilities,
qualifications and training of FDO's is discussed in Annex 12. Each FDO
would have an area of about 10 villages. Direction and technical support
for the pasture program would be provided to FDO's by Pasture Development
Officers, to be located at each project breeding station. These Pasture
Development Officers would be the principal liaison between FDO's, pasture
researchers, and the Central Mobile Unit which would be based at Tha Phra
and provide training and promotion services for the pasture program.
Pasture Development Officers would also supervise demonstrations and dis-
tribute pasture seed. A Senior Pasture Officer with counterpart Pasture
Development Seed Production and Storage Advisors would be assigned to the
Project Management office to oversee the seed production, field development
and training under the pasture component of the project.
29.       In each selected village a meetingisemInar would be arranged
during the dry season to explain the concept of pasture improvement and
nsethod to be used, and to prepare an approximate development plan for the
area.  At the time of sowing, the 7illage group would assemble again for
final instructions on the distribution of seed. It would be essential that
initial exposure of village groups to the project be carefully executed,
and this would be done with the assistance of the Central Mobile Unit from
TFaa Pra, at least in key villages. Subsequent day-to-day extension
would be lhandled by FDO's. Problems would be referred to the Pasture
Development Officer and through him, if necesary, to the Unit. The
areas would be visited at regular intervals by Pasture Development Officers
to monitor progress and to assist with any individual problems. At least
four times each year the staff involved with seed distribution would meet
for a short seminar at Tha Phra.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
30.       The Central Mobile Unit would be equipped with generator, film
and slide projectors, a public address system, and simple hand-out
literature on Pasture Development and improved species. The preparation
of such literature would be an important function of the Central Unit. It
would be necessary to avoid training programs on the Breeding Stations
which used the pasture type and pasture management on the stations as
demonstrations of what could be achieved in the average village. The
station pastures should be regarded only as an introduction of the pasture
species except where specific demonstration areas are maintained. During
all pasture promotional work, it will be critical to be realistic about
the nature of the development and the expected benefits. The low cost
program will be well accepted by farmers, with sound extension; but diffi-
culties will arise if the nature and extent of the benefits are overstated.
Staff Training
31.       A Central Training Unit, based at Tha Phra would be responsible
for the training of all field workers. This important unit would comprise
two local staff with a demonstrated ability in extension, and would be
under the supervision of the Senior Pasture Officer. The Pasture Develop-
meat Advisor would also be expected to devote a major share of his time
to this unit in the first two years. Initially the unit would familiarize
key personnel from the selected Breeding Stations, using short seminars
and field trips, with the objectives of the project and the concept of
low-cost pasture improvement. Four to six week courses for FDO's would
also be introduced in the first six months of the project. Subsequently
the Unit would organize orientation courses at each of the Breeding
Stations, for the staff operating from those stations. In this connection,
it would be imperative to establish demonstration areas immediately in
villages near the stations. The Unit would liase closely with Khon Kaen
University, The Land Development Department and the Northeast Agricultural
Research Centre for the organization of joint seminars of interest to
various groups.



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasture Development Program
Annual Stylo Seed Utilization
Year 1                    Year 2                    Year 3                     Year 4                     Year 5
rai        kg             rai        kg             rai         kg             rai         kg             rai         kg
SEED PRODUCTION
Area Harvested for Seed 1'500                                                  2,000                     2,000                      2,000                      2,000
Harvested Seed--Pods 2/                                        10,000                    45,000                     60,000                     60,000                     60,000
Incremental Area for Seed 1/                        1,500                        -                         -                          _                          _
Seed Requirement 3/                                             4,500                        -                         -               _               _
OVERSOWING ON GOVERNMENT STATIONS
Breeding Stations (Six) 4/                             600                     2,400
Seed Requirement 5/                                               600                     2,400                        -                            _                _
Forage Stations (Eight)                                 80                        80                        _
Seed Requirement                                                  200                        300                       -
Lamphya Klang 6/                                       200                    15,000                     5,000
Seed Requirement                                                  100                      7,500                     2,500                                           _
INTENSIVE AREAS
No. of New Project Units                                     40                        150                       150                        150                        150
Incremental Area
New Units Ae                                      8,000                     30,000                    30,000                     30,000                     30,000
Third Year Development 8/                            -                         -                      16,000                     60,000                     60,000
Total Incremental Ares                               8,000                    30,000                    46,000                     90,000                     90,000
Seed Requirement 9/                                             4,000                     15,000                    23,000                     45,000                     45,000
OTHER AREAS
Area                                                                          20,000                    30,000                     30,000                     30,000
Seed Requirement                                                                          10,000                    15,000                     15,000                     15,000
Seed Reserve                                                      600                      4,800                    19,500                        -                          -
1/  At Chiengyuen and Huoi Luong.                                                                   5/  Seeding rate 1 kg/rai.
2/  Assume 20 kg/rai in 1st year, 30 kg/rai in subsequent years.                                    6/  Seeding rate 0.5 kg/rai.
3/  Seeding rate 3 kg/rai for seed production.                                                      7/  200 rai/unit.                                                             X
4/  Excluding Lamphya Klang.                                                                        9/  400 rai/unit.                                                               
9/  0.5 kg/rai.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 2
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Summary of Investment Costs
% Foreign
Local     Foreign     Total      Exchange
Seed Production_/
Seedbed development              58,500      6,500       65,ooo        10
Buildings                          6,400     1,600        8,000        20
Vehicles and equipment             2,150    19,350       21,500        90
1/
Seed Processing and Storageo-
Buildings                         12,600     3,150       15,750        20
Vehicles and equipment             4,660    41,940       46,600        90
Central Mobile Unit2/
Buildings                          7,400     1,850         9,250       20
Vehicles and equipment             1,110     9,990       11,100        90
Extension materials                1,200    10,800       12,000        90
Pasture research                  26,400     6,600       33,000        20
Subtotal                        120,420   101,780       222,200
Physical Contingency               9,402     9,518       18,920
(10% excl. grant)
TOTAL BASE COST ESTIMATE         129,822   111,298      241,120
1/ See Annex 4 Table 1 for details
2/  Two houses l140,000; office space, p45,000; mini bus, 0100,000,
pick-up, 080,000; office equipment, g20,000; extension equipment, p22,000
April 7, 1975



ANNEY 3
Table 3
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Central Mobile Unit - Tha Phra
Operating Expeenses
--- Thousand Baht ---------------
Project Year   1           2           3           4          5
Salaries
Two Pasture Development
Promotionr OfficersJi              82          86         90          94          98
Per Diem?.                           15          15         15          15          15
Casual Labor2                        24          21t        24          24          1
Vehicle Fuel & Mantenance
Van & Pick up '                      66          66         66          66          66
Equipment Maintenance                 6           6          6           6           6
Media Costs
Film, Tapes end Leaflets             42          17         17          17          17
Sub-total before depreciation         235         214        218         222         226
Dhepreciation
Structures6/                         12          12         12          12          12
Vehiclesi/                           36          36         36          36          36
Equipment8/                           4           4          4           14          4
Total Operating Expenses              287         266        270         2714        278
(US$ '000:         14.5       13.4        13.6        13.8        14.o
3]  03O,400/month for each officer - increases due to increments.
2/ 0100/day for 150 days.
3/ Typing, translation, assistance with media preparation.
v 60,000 km i@ 1.1 per km.
i/ 15% of cost.
S/   6% per year.
7/ 20% per year.
8/ 15% per year.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 3
T."ble 4
THAILIAD
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pro.ject Field Development
Operating Expenses
Field Development Officers and
Development Staff on Stations
-------------- Thousand Baht -
Project Year 1          2          3           4
Salaries & Wages
Chief Development Officersi./       480        492         504        528
Assistant Development Officrs2/   264          270         276        282         288
Field Developjnent Officers3/       550        794       1,325      1,330       1,33)
Clerk/Typists4/                      168       174         180        186         1 7)
Per Diemi7/
Chiefs                               36         36          36         30          i,
Assistants                            27        27          27         27           7
Field Develop ent Officers           675       675         675        675         G
Rent Allowance6                                   90                      0
Vehicle Fuel & Maintenance7/
Pick ups                            132        132         132        132         132
Motorcycles                          161       203         293        293         2S9
Sub-total before depreciation       2,556      2,693       3,598      3,639       3,68C0
(US$ '000:       129.1    136.0        181.7       183.8      185.9)
Depreciation:
Structures 6%                         97        97          97         97          97
lehicles  20%                        126       126         126        126         126
Total Operating Expenses            2,773      2,916      3,821       3,862       3,903
(US$  '000:       140.1    147.3      193.0        195.1      1/?.])
1/  One chief each for pasture & livestock in each of the 6 stations - commencing
salary 140,000 per annum - total 12.
2/ Onc asst. chief each for pasture & livestock in each of the 6 stations - commencin~,
salary $22,000 per annum - total 12.
3/ Ten field development officers per station - commencing salary $22,000 per annum -
total 60; first year 25, second year 36 and third year on wards 60.
/  Two clerk/typists per station.
:/ Chiefs 30 days @ $100; asst. chiefs 30 days @ $75; field development officers -
150 days  $75.
6/ $2,500 per annum per field officer.
7/ Pick ups - 20,000 km @ $1 .1 per km; motor-bikes - 15,000 Ian @ $0.25 per km
(year 1 -143 bikes, Year 2 - 54 bikes, year 3 - 78 bikes)
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 3
Tlable F
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasture Research Unit
Operating Expenses
--------------- Thousand Baht --------------
Project Year    1            2           3          )4         5
Salaries & Wages
Four Offi ialsi/                        160         164        168         176        182
Per Dierr.                               24          24         24          24         2)4
Vehicle Fuel & Maintenance3/               55          55          55          55        55
Research Expenditure
Fertilizer                               90          90          90         90         90
Cultivation                              30          30         30          30         30
Casual Labor                             60          60         60          60         60
Other Expenses                           20          20          20         20         20
Sub-total before depreciation             439         443         47         )451       455,
DepreciatXon
Housing,1                                18          18          18         18         18
VehiclesZ/                               32          32          32          32        32
Equipment/                               1  15                   15         1_5        1
Total Operating Expenses                  504         508         512         516       520
j/ Increase due to annual increments.
2/  240 days/year @ #100/day.
2/  50,000 kmn 3 ;1.1 per km.
S/ 6% on cost.
20% on cost.
10% on cbst.
April 7, 1975



kNN  3
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasture Development
Intensive Development Areas
The areas listed below for intensive pasture and livestock
development under the project have been selected on the basis of farmer
interest, suitability of available fallow and common grazing lands,
scope for improvement of cattle herds and proximity to livestock stations.
This list however is not exclusive or final. Changing conditions and
village attitudes in the early years of the project may well justify
modifications.
Changat           Amphur           Tambol-            Project Livestock Station
Province)        (District)
Khori Kaen          Muang           Nonkong                 Tha-pra
Pawainang
Sawathi
Ban Thum
Ban Thon
Nam-Pong       Muangwan
Nam-pong
Khaosuan Kwang
Na-ngew
Nong-Rau       Non Thong
Non Saard
Non han
Mulchakiri     Nong pan
Suanmon
Kudkhow
Poehai
Chonabot       Wang sang
(Cooperative Society)Ban han
Chonabot
Mahasara            Kosoompisai    Haukwang
Kam                                 Kang Kae
Kwoa Rai
Pang
Loa
Udornthani          Pen             Pen
Soom Sow
Chomsi
(Landsettlemenit)  Nong Wboasaw    Magya
(Cooperative Society) Nong harn     Sapang
/1 Tambol-Number of villages (usually 5-10) grouped into one administrative
and political unit.



ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
rh. -w.t          immphur          Tambol            Project Livestock Station
;K ;i sin         Yrin, Tnlad       Hua Ngua          Mahaserakam
Bua Ban
Tm Now
J?oy-Et            Muang             Swan Phig
Paw Parn
Non Rung
Munng Lad
Rob Muang
Si Keo
Nong Wang
Selapoom          Klang
Ta-Muang
Pu-Ngern
Po-Thong
Pon-Thon-         Kampia
Kumpuang
(Wang
Cooperative      (Nong yai
Society          (Mekwadi
(Chumprn
Kokgog Mwang
Oom Maw
Tawat Buri        Nong Pai
Burirum            Lamprymal         Cooperative
Bungruad          Land Settlement
Ubol               Mung              Nong Khorn        Ubol Rachalthani
Rat- Noy
Loasuakok
Kumhiyai
Pon Muang
Kham yai
Warin Chumrap    Kum Kwang
Koo Muang
Non Kalen
Sawang
Tayang
Amnatcharern      Kum yai
Senangkani
Kom
Kuangni           Sisook
Yang Kinog
Kaw-ay
Ban thai
Yasothorn          Khunikuan Keo     Loompug
Songpluay
Toong man
Nakum
Dongkanyai



kNNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
Ch8lrgwat,       Akiphur           Tambol            Project Livestock Station
Salolna Korr       Muang            Hanyang           Sakolnakorn
Pang Kwang
Ban Pone
Natong Watna
Nageow
Toangoy
Pananikom       Na Hua Boa
Wa Nai
porgnoy
Rai
Poom            Kumboa
Waritchapoom
Argard Amnuau   Wa Yai
Pon Ngam
Argard
Pon Pang
Kusumarn        Na Po
Po Pisan
Oom oharn
NAkorripanom       Muang            Banklang
Kum taoy
Kuruku
Na sai
Kham toa
Ta Khaw
Nakornraj          Paktongchai      Toom              Lamprayaklang
Sima                                Mung Pak
Ta-Kob
Chaiyapoom         Chaturat         Ta-Koob
Nong-chim
Nong Bua Ban
Ban gog
Raharn
Muang           Ban Kai
Kangklaw        Loobka
Chongsammaw
Nongkram
Kasetsomboon    Nangdad
Banpow
ian Kwow        Talad Rang
Nong Bua Dang   Nong Bua Dang
Kon san         Ta yang
Kor swan        Konswan
Chongsanmmow
Non Sa-ard
Yangwai
.197 r



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TIAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pasture Seed Production
Introduction
1.        Seed availability is a major constraint on the rate of pasture
improvement in the Northeast. It is essential to establish a large forage
seed production program within Thailand, because of the high cost of seed
imported, the unreliability of supply, and delays in procurement. Although
the Land Development Department has a significant potential for seed produc-
tion, its objective is to assist larger farmers, and there is very little
attention given to the improvement of communally grazed land, or to assist-
ing the smaller village farmer. However, the cooperation of Land Development
Department and Khon Kaen University would be vital to the success of the seed
production aspect of the project, particularly with respect to seed supplies
in the first year of the project and to seed production research.
Selected Sites for Seed Production
2.        Chien&yuen Forage Station (2,750 rai) is ideally situated, within
30 km of Khon Kaen on a good bitumen road, and is being developed mainly as
a "commercial" pasture for use by local villagers. Almost 700 rai have been
planted to paragrass, and a further 800 rai of cultivated land is unplanted.
One hundred rai sown to Townsville stylo in 1974 will be suitable for seed
production in 1975, although land levelling was inadequate. The center has
adequate machinery for cultivation, is well sited, and fencing is adequate
to allow control of competition by grazing during the early wet season.
However, it was overcapitalized in fencing and irrigation equipment, and
land clearing initially was not phased, with resultant severe regrowth prob-
lems and soil erosion. In addition, the land was originally acquired from
local villagers and other landowners, and some serious land use disputes
remain; hence the area to be used for seed production on this site would
be restricted to 500 rai. Local villagers would be assured of immediate
assistance through the over-sowing program, and would be given extra employ-
ment opportunities during the seed harvest (late-December/January) which is
a lull period in the Northeast.
3.        Huoi Luong Forage Station (2,500 rai) is about 25 km from Udorn,
and is still in the early developmental stages, with about 600 rai already
cleared. Because it is in a sparsely settled area, there were no signifi-
cant displacement problems; the center has no obligation to provide communal



ANNEX 4
Page 2
grazing for local stock, and the total area could be used for seed produc-
tion if required. Under the project, a total area of 1,000 rai would be
fenced and used for this purpose. The machinery and equipment at this site
would be kept to a minimum.
4.        Other Forage Stations would assume a more active role in seed
production.
Northeast Forage Crop Stations
Station             Total Area           Area Cleared
Udorn                     200                 170
Nongkhai                  200                  67
Mahasarakam               200                 200
Kalasin                   225                225
Loei                    1,875                588
Sakhon Nakorn             510                 132
Nakon Phanom              628                  40
Ubon                      200                  50
Each station would establish 10 rai of Townsville stylo for seed in the
first project year, and a further 10 rai in each subsequent year for a total
of 50 ral per station. The only additional budgetary requirement would be
for fertilizer. The harvesting methods currently used at Borabue would be
satisfactory initially on such areas. On most stations, the areas of para-
grass are superfluous, and legume seed production can be greatly increased
without more land-clearing. One of the initial objectives must be the sup-
ply of seed for the improvement of pastures on all Breeding Stations in the
Northeast.
5..       Pak Chong Forage Station.  This station, with its good facilities
and experienced staff is used for species trials of pasture grasses and
legumes. A bilateral aid program of the Japanese Government is being carried
on here under which preliminary selections are being made from a large
number of species from around the world. Under the project, 500 rai of
undeveloped land on this station would be placed in seed production of
promising or proven species including Perennial stylo, Siratro and Buffel
grass. In addition, 500 rai would be used for Annual Stylo seed production.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Central Seed HarvestinR & Storage Unit
6.        Harvesting machinery would be maintained in a central unit at
Tha Phra, and transported to Huoi Luong and Chiengyuen using Tha Phra Live-
stock Station transport. This would obviate the need for additional spe-
cialized workshops. This equipment should also be made available for loan
or hire to Khon Kaen University and the Land Development Department stations
at Khon Kaen and Borabue, where present harvesting methods would otherwise
be a constraint on the area utilized. Harvested seed from Huoi Luong and
Chiengyuen would be transported to Tha Pra for further cleaning, heat treat-
ment, drying and storage.
Production. Harvesting and Storage Costs
7.        Investment costs for this component of the project are presented
in Table 1 of this Annex. Tables 2 through 5 present operating costs.



THA I LAN D
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Send Production Investment Costs (2900 RoE)
Unit           Chieng Yuen                       Huoo  Coong                                                  o Other Forge  Stations        Control Pmottssiog Unit                    LCOST
Unit      Cost          Unit        Unit Coot            Units         Total Cost      UCits          Totol Cost        Units         Total Cost        Vonits        Total Cos          (tR000)        (US$'00)
Seedhed Devetopmenot
Land oleoring                                Rui         800                   -                       500            400.0                      -                              _                                                      400.0             20.0
Cultiv-tion                                  Rai          40          500            20.0             1500              60.0            500            20.0           400               16.0                   -                       116.0              5,8
Sowing                                       8ai           2          500             1.0             CSOO               3.0            500             1.0           400                0.0a                                             5.8             0.3
Establishment Ferotjlizr
8opeophnqsphbte-                        Kg            10         7500            75.0            22500            225.0           5000             50.0          4000              40.0                   -                        390.0            19.5
Gypsu,_/                                 Kg             .7      15000            10.5            45000              31.5          10000             7.0          8000                0.6                   _                        54.6              2.7
Spr-ading                                Rai          10          50             5.0             1500             15.0             000             5.0           400               4.0                    -                        29.0              1.5
Fencing                                      Km        10000                   _                          6.5           65.0                                    -                                              -                        65.0              3.3
Ftrebreoks                                   Km          500                   _                         10              5.0                                     -                                             -                         S.               0.3
Coso-l laohor                             Mam-hoar         4        10000            40.0            30000             120.0          10000            40.0          8000               32.0                   _                       232.0             11.6
SBildings
Storags shed                                Unit       20000                   -                          1             20.0                                    -                                              -                        20.0              1.0
Hoosing - nsnager/-hief                     Umit       00000                   -                          1             0.0                      _                              _                      1                80.0           160,0              3.0
- plont operator                   Unit       60000                   _                          1             60.0                     -                               -                      1               60.0            120.0             6.0
Machinsry, treat-nt-, st-rage sled          U'it      120000                   -                                 _                                                                                     1               120.0           120.0              6.0
Srying floor                                Unit       55000                  --                                                                                                -                                       55.0            55.0              2.7
Vehiolor and Equipment
Traotor (70 hp)                            UEit       180000                   _                          1            180.0                     -                                                             -                       180.0              9.0
Di,s hbrrow                                 Unit       12000                   _                          1             12.0                     -                                                             -                        12.0              0.6
Tine hbrrow                                Umit         0000                                               1            8.0                     -                                              -                                         8.0             0.4
Rotary slasher (tractor mounted)            Ulit       30000                   _                          1             30.0                                     -                                             -                        30.0              1.5
Rotary f-rrilte-r spr-ad-r                  Unit       20000                   _                          1             20.0                                     -                                             -                        20.0              1.0
D.mp trailer                                UEit       25000                   -                          1             25.0                                     -                                             -                        25.0              1.2
Pink-up truck (5 too)                      Omit      100000                   -I                                      100.0                     -                                                                     100.0           200.0             10.0
Motor-ycle                                  Emit        8000                   -                          2             16.0                     -                                                             -                        16.0              0.0
Sed ban6tor                                 Emit      400000                   -                                                                                                -                      1               400.0           400.0             20.0
Trk (0 ivn)                                Ulit       180000                   -                                                                                                -                      1               180.0           180.0              9.0
wiu    t  on                                Unit        5UOO 0                                                   -                               -                              -                      1                 5.0              5.0             0.2
Sed dryer                                   Unit       25000                   -                                 _                                                                                     1                25.0            25.0              1.3
Hammer mill                                 Uio        igooo                                                    -                                                               -                      IO 1                      8.0     1.0              0.9
Oth0 r pr--osing oqoip-ent                  -           -                                                                                                                                                             120.0           120.0              6.0
Spare parts (l00)                            -           -                                                              39.0                     -                                                                      85.0           124.0              6.2
Subtital                                                                              151.5                             1514.5                          123.0                             98.4                          1248.0          3135.4            156.8
Physical contingemoy (10%/)                                                            15.2                              151.4                            12.3                             9.8                           124.8            313.5            15.7
TOTAL SAlE COST E8TIMATE                                                              166.2                             1665.9                          135.3                            1008.2                         1472.0          344.9             172.5
1/ At nagstUatiins it was agreed that S00 rai of the 1,500 originally to heve born devoloped
at Noni Lr-g_will be developed instead at Pak Chong.  ThereOfo-  one third nf the
seed-bed deve-lpmeet .tste in this colomn will be incorred at Pak Chong.
2/  Snp-rphaaphatr applied at rate of 15 kg/rai
3/ Gypum.  applied at oate of 30 kg/rei
Octobor 28, 1975



THAILAND                                        ANNEX 4
Table 2
LIVESTOCK DEVEILPMENT PROJECT
Annual Stvlo Seed Production-ChieneLruen. Huoi Lunng and Pak Chong
Combined Operating Expenses
Unit                        -------------- Thousand Baht ---------------
Units  cost         1 Project Year   1         2           3          4           5
Maintenance Fertilizer
Superphosphate 1/      kg       10                                  200         200         203        200
Gypsum 2/              kg        0.7                                 28          28          28          28
Spreading costs        rai      10                                   20          20          20          20
Slashing & weeding                                           30        20          10          10          10
Pesticides                                                   15        18          20          20          20
Herbicides                                                   10          5          5           5           5
Maintenance & Fuel
Fencing 3/                                                    2          2          2           2           2
Fire breaks                                                   4          5          5           5           5
Tractor, Vehicle & Harvester Expenses
Tractor 4i                                                   48        56          64          64          64
Motorcycles 5/                                                3         4           4           4           4
1.5 m/ton Pick up 6/                                         22        25          27          27          27
Seed Harvester
Fuel, repairs & maintenance 7/                               28        30          32          32          32
Casual Labor 8/                                                18         22         24          24          24
Sub-total before depreciation                                 1 80      435         441         441         441
Depreciation
Pick up, Motorcycles 9/                                      23        23          23          23          23
Tractor, Harvester, Fertilizer spreader, Slasher 10/         63        63          63          63          63
Harrows, Trailer 11/                                          3         3           3           3           3
Buildings 12/                                                10        10          10          10          10
Total Operating Expenses                                      279       534         538         538         538
1 /  Louole superphospnate at 1v Kg/rai; ,dl.J,'kg.              7/  470 per 1iour.
_/  Gypsum at 2o kg/rai; A2.7/kg.                                I/  js per man-a-y.
3/ Fencing reDairs.  3' of cost.                                 /  %enrreciption 201.
4/  &0i/hr for fuel and maintenance.                            10/  Depreciation 10%.
:/  12,000 km in year 1; 15,000 km from year 2;                 i11/  Depreciation 6,.
j0.2 '/kn.                                              12/  Depreciation 65'.
6/  $1.8/km for fuel and maintenance.
October 28, 1975



ANNEx 4
Table 3
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Improving Seed Productionl! Capacity
of 8 Forage StationsK/
Additional Operating Expenses
Thousand Baht --------------
Project Year  1           2           3         4           5
Increased area for
effective seed production              80        160         180       320         450
(rai)
Onerating Costs
Fertilizer
Double super phosphate_/         8,000      16,000      24,000    32,000      40,000
Gypsuxn4/                        1,120       2,240       3,360     4,480       5,600
Casual labouri/                    6,4.00     12,800      19,200    25,600      32,000
Other expenses/                      --         --
Total                                15,520     31,040      46,560    62,080      77,600
1/  Mainly
Stylosanthes humilis (Townsville stylo)
Stylosanthes hamata cv. Verano
Stylosanthes guyanesis (Perennied stylo)
Macroptilium atropurpureus (Siratro)
2/  Udorn; Sakhon Nakorn; Nongkhai; Mahasarakam; Loei, Ubon; Kalasin; Nakhon Phanom.
10 kg/rai/yr; $10/kg.
20 kg/rai/yr; $0.7/kg.
~/  20 man hours/rai for threshing, cleaning, drying seed; $4/man-hour.
6/ To be met by existing station budgets.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 4
Table 4
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Production - Other Swcies/ -  ak Chong
Additional Operating Expenses
- Thousand Baht -------------
Project Year    1          2          3          4         5
Total area                       200       300        400        500       500
Operating Expenses
Fertilizer
Double superphosphate_ /     20         30        140        50         '.
GZypsum3/                     3          14         6         7          7
Casual Labor-/                    16        24         32         40
Total                             39        58         78         97        97
1/ Species including:
Urochloa mosambicensis
Cenchrus ciliaris cv Biloela
Cenchrus ciliaris cv Gayndah
Panicum maximum var Trichoglume cv Petric
i4acrotyloma uniflorum cv Leichhardt
Macrotyloma exillaris cv Archer
Lab Lab purporeus cv Rongai
cv Highworth
2/ 10 kg/rai/yr; $10/kg
3/ 20 kg/rai/yr; 00.7/kg
14/ 20 man hours/rai; $4/man hour
October 28, 1975



ANNEX It
Table e
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Production
Tha Phra Treatment Storage & Distribution Unit
Operating Expenses
-------- Thousand Baht -------------
Project Year   1          2          3                    '4
Salaries & Wages
Seed Unit Chief                    30        32         33         34        36
Assistant                          18         19        21         22         24
Per Diem
Casual Labor                       15        15         15         15        15
Vehicle Ruxning Expenses
Pick u  /                          25        25         25         25        25
Truck'_                            42        42         42         42        142
Fhuel, Power for Equipment           10         10        10         10         10
Gunny Sacks, Tarpaulins              20         20         5          5
Fumigants, Pesticides                 3          3         3          3          3
Sub-total before depreciation       169       172        160        162       166
Depreciation
.Strtctu   3                       19        19         19         19        1)
Vehicles=                          52        52         52         52        ,.2
Equipment/                         11         11        11         11        11
Total Operating Expenses            251       254        242        214i      2e18
1/  25,000 km/yr; 01.0/k1n
2/ 15,000 km/yr; $2.8/km
2/   6% per year
Li' 20% per year
5/ 10% per year
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page I
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Breeding Stations
General Purpose
1.        The Livestock Development Department has 15 breeding stations in
the Northeast. Most stations are not fully developed, and the facilities
that do exist are underutilized and devoted primarily to livestock produc-
tion. Under the project, five stations would be further developed as would
two substations. These, together with the Surin station, the facilities of
which are adequate, would be used for the following purposes:
(i)  increase the supply of breeding stock for farmers,
although during the project period the sale of
purebred Brahman animals wouid be restricted to
culls and castrates; 1/:
(ii) progeny and performance testing and the selection
of bulls for semen collection;
(iii) regional animal production research, including
grazing trials, buffalo studies, and breed eval-
uation;
(iv) training and briefing of field development officers;
(v)  frozen semen and liquid nitrogen supplies to insemi-
nators;
(vi) .technical assistance to field development officers; and
(vii)  coordination of field development within the intensive
areas assignment to the respective stations.
2.        The stations, and the intensive areas to be served by each are:
-    Tha Phra and two substations (Udon Thani &
Chaiyaphum): Khon Kaen and part of Mahasarakam;
1/   The price of purebred Brahman cattle has been excessively inflated in
recent years, and only AI and "loaned bull" service would have any
chance of reaching any farmers but the very richest.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Maha Sarakham:  Maha Sarakham, Kalasin, Roi et,
and part of Burirum;
Sakon Nakhorn:  Sakon Nakhorn, Nakhom Phanon;
Ubon Ratcharthani:  Yasothonn, Ubol and Si Se Ket;
Surin:  Surin and Buri Ram;
-    Lamphya Klang:  Nakhom Ratchasana and Chaiyapoom.
In addition, Tab Kwang Station would provide extra breeding stock where
required for the other stations and to service the dairy industry.
3.        All the stations will carry enlarged beef herds mainly on improved
pasture. In some cases land will be cleared and sown down to pasture. Where
possible new pasture would be established using the same methods as pasture
establishment in communal grazing and cropping areas at the village level.
Present Livestock Department policies have tended to encourage more sophis-
ticated livestock and pasture husbandry development on the livestock and
forage crop station than would normally be seen at the farm level. Re-
search and evaluation work thus have not been directly applicable to the
farmer. This change of pasture establishment policy will:
(i) give researchers areas to study pasture establish-
ment techniques; and
(ii) provide areas for regional breed appraisal work on
newly established pasture.
Cattle husbandry on these areas will simulate cattle husbandry at the vil-
lage level, and will provide an environment for more accurate breed assess-
ment and crop/pasture/livestock integration work.
Courier Service
4.        Improved communication would be provided by a courier service of
two vehicles and drivers based at Tha Phra to provide a regular weekly serv-
ice between the stations. The purpose of this service would be to:
(a) provide regular contact between the regional and
main research centers;
(b) transport specimens, etc., to regional diagnostic
centers;
(c) transport supplies of frozen semen and liquid
nitrogen to semen depots at the livestock sta-
tions; and



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(d) provide a reliable regular service for transporta-
tion of personnel between stations.
Land Development Machinery
5.        LDD has in the Northeast a total of 10 bulldozers.  Eight of
them are 9 years of age or older, and lost time due to mechanical failure
is excessive. To increase the efficiency of land development activities,
equipment is to be centralized at Tha Phra where maintenance and repair
facilities will be strengthened. Under the project two bulldozers and a
low-bed transport would be provided for this central machinery unit.
Station Functions and Staffing
6.        Details of station activities would be finalized in annual work
plans to be approved by the Director General in consultation with the
Livestock Research Advisor and submitted to the Bank for comment. How-
ever, a general breakdown of function and probable staffing requirement
is presented for each station in the following paragraphs.
7.        Tha Phra:  Tha Phra will become the administrative center of the
project. It will work in close association with N.E.A.R. Center for coor-
dination of research work and veterinary diagnostic work, and with the
Khon Kaen A.I. Center for coordination with the A.I. work on the other
stations. Tha Phra will also carry on a small bull breeding program, breed
assessment trials and other research work including work with pigs and
poultry. Staffing would include:
-    Project Manager (9th P.C.)
-    Assistant Project Manager (8th P.C.)
-    Livestock Research Advisor
-    Senior Animal Husbandry Research Officer (7th P.C.)
-    Station Chief (6th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Poultry) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Pigs (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Cattle (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Extension) (4th-Sth P.C.)
-    Agronomist (Forage Crops) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Veterinarian (5th-6th P.C.)
-    Geneticist (6th P.C.)



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Animal Physiologist (6th P.C.)
Vocational Officers (1st-2nd P.C.) (3)
Typists (4)
Clerks (4)
Mechanics (3)
Drivers (10)
-    Carpenters (2)
-    Labourers (85)
8.        Lamphya Klang:  This is the largest of the stations, and would
provide the main breeding center and breed assessment center. Studies
could also be carried out on low cost clearing and pasture establishment.
In the first year scrub should be selectively poisoned ($ 50/rai) (20,000
rai) and sown down to Townsville stylo at 1/4 kg./ha. By the second year
the carrying capacity of the station is expected to increase to 2,000 head.
Some buffalo research will also be carried out on Lamphya Klang. Staffing
would include:
-    Station Chief (6th P.C.)
-    Assistant Geneticist (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Extension) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Buffaloes)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Cattle)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (General)
-    Agronomist (Forage Crops) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Veterinarian (5th-6th P.C.)
-    Vocational Officers (10) (1st-2nd P.C.)
-    Typists (2)
-    Clerks (2)
-    Mechanics (3)



ANNEX 5
Page 5
-    Drivers (3)
-    Bulldozer Operators (2)
-    Tractor Drivers (10)
-    Labourers (80)
9.        Surin:  No additional station development is necessary.  Surin
will carry a very small beef herd for bull breeding and breed assessment
and it will become the major buffalo research center. Staffing would
include:
-    Station Chief (6th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Buffaloes) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Beef)
-    Agronomist (Forage Crops)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Extension)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (General)
-    Veterinarian
-    Vocational Officers (3)
-    Typists (2)
-    Clerks (2)
-    Driver (1)
-    Tractor Operators (5)
-    Mechanic (1)
-    Carpenter (1)
-    Labourers (60)
10.       Maha Sarakham, Sakhon Nakhon, Ubon Ratchathani:  These three
stations would be basically bull breeding centers, where breed assessment
work would be done. About 600 rai of pasture development is required on
Maha Sarakham, which can be completed with the present station plant.
Total staffing for the three stations would be:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Stations Chiefs (6th P.C.) (3)
Animal Husbandry Officers (Cattle) (4th-5th P.C.) (3)
Animal Husbandry Officers (General) (3)
Animal Husbandry Officers (Extension) (3)
Agronomists (Forage Crops) (3)
Veterinarians (3)
Vocational Officers (50)
-    Typists (3)
-    Clerks (6)
-    Mechanics (6)
=     )Drivers (4)
-    Tractor Operators (12)
=    Labourers (150)
11.       Tab Kwang:  This station will be the main holding station for
cattle to be transferred to the other Northeastern Breeding Stations.
Bull breeding work and breed assessment work will be the main beef cattle
research work carried on here. The station will also carry a herd of about
200 native zebu - maintained by purchase or sale - for use in breeding
programs and for breed comparison work. It will become the main dairy re-
search station of the Livestock Development Department with a milking herd
of about 100 cows all year round. It will also act as a depot for outstand-
ing bull calves purchased from dairy farmers to be held and raised until
they can be assessed as potential breeding material. A group of field
officers will operate from the station, making herd recordings in farmers'
dairy herds to be used by the geneticist for bull selection and progeny
testing work. Staffing would include:
-    Station Chief (6th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Dairy) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Cattle)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (General)
-    Agronomist (Forage Crops)



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Veterinarian
Vocational Officers (Herd Recording) (6)
Vocational Officers (5)
-    Typists (2)
-    Clerks (2)
-    Mechanics (2)
-    Drivers (2)
-    Tractor Operators (8)
-    Bulldozer Operators (2)
-    Labourers (85)
12.       Udornthani Substation:  This will be used as a bull holding center
for the "loaned bull t program. There will be no breeding work actually car-
ried on on the station. Staffing would include:
-    Station Chief (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Cattle) (4th-5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Extension)
-    Vocational Officers (2)
-    Typist (1)
-    Clerk (1)
-    Labourers (10)
13.       Chaiyaphum:  This station would establish an elite buffalo bull
herd to serve the nearby Surin Station and it would also serve as a holding
station for the "loaned bull" program. Staffing would include:
-    Station Chief (5th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Buffalo) (4th P.C.)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Cattle)
-    Animal Husbandry Officer (Extension)



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Agronomist
Vocational Officers (4)
-    Typist (1)
-    Clerk (1)
-    Tractor Operators (2)
Driver (1)
Labourers (20)
Component Costs -
14.       Estimated investment costs for this component of the project
are presented in Table I. The derivation of operating costs used in
project cost estimates appears as Appendix I. Specifications for im-
ported cattle appear as Appendix II.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
THAILAND
IA VESTOCK DEVEILPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Station Improvements
- - - - US$ ' 000- - - - -        %
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
Land DeveloqEn:nt
Scrub Poisoning                    51.7      5.8        57.5        10
Scrub Cleararnce                   19.0      1.0        20.0         5
Pasture Development                16.0      4.o        20.0        20
Buildings
Ofl'ice Space                      52.0     13.0        65.0        20
Housilng                           96.0     24.0       120.0        20
Stores                              9.6      2.4        12.0        20
Laboratory                         18.0     12.0        30.0        40
Training Facilities                12.8      3.2        16.0        20
Hull Barns                         28.0      7.0        35.0        20
Equipment & jVe4cles
Office Furhiture                    1.6      0.2         1.8        10
Ofiice Equi-p knt                   0.6      5.4         6.o        90
Training Equipment                  4.o     36.0        40.o        90
Laboratory E*ipment               16.0    144.0       16o.o        90
'lranceivers                        1.0      9.0        10.0        90
riulldozers                        12.0    108.0       120.0        90
Trnctors                            8.o     72.0        80.0        90
Imrplements                         9.0     21.0        30.0       70
T'railers(incLt  heavy equip.
transport)               24.0     56.o        80.0        70
L;cdans or Vans                     2.4     21.6        24.0        90
Pick-up Trucks                      2.4     21.6        2L.0        90
Truck                               1.5     13.5        15.0        90
Motorcyc1iS                         1.1      9.7        10.6        90
IfiscellaneoUs Farm Tools           9.0     21.0        30.0        70
Vehicle Spares                      1.5     13.9        15.L        90
Sub-Total                         381.2    621.3    1,002.5         62
Physical Cortirngency (10%)        38.1     62.1       100.2        62
Total Ease Gott Estimate          4l9.3    683.4    1,102.7         62
October 28, 19Ti5h



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of Breeding Stations
Derivation of Operating Costs
At full development, the project stations would have 57 research
and production officers, 196 support staff, 490 full-time equivalent la-
bourers, and 10 supervisors.
Monthly     Annual         20%            Annual
Salary                   Benefits       Staff Cost
Research/Production
Officer (ave 5th P.C.)    3,850        46,200        9,200          559400
Support Staff
(ave 1st P.C.)             1,200       14,400        2,900          17,300
Labourers
(U25/Day; 270 day)          -           -             -              6,800
Supervisors
(ave 6th P.C.)             5,150      61,800        12,400          74,200
The staff cost per research/production worker would therefore be:
Cost Per
Ratio     Unit Cost      R/P Worker
R/P Worker            1.0        55.4            55.4
Support               3.4         17.3           58.8
Labour                8.6         6.8            58.5
Supervision           0.2        74.2            14.8
Total Staff Cost
Per R/P Worker                               187.5



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
In most cases, project activities would represent a reorienta-
tion or intensification of existing activities to more effectively utilize
existing manpower and facilities at these stations. However, to ensure
that adequate funding is provided, 30% of total staff cost are assumed to
be incremental.
Materials, supplies and overhead are normally assumed to be equiv-
alent to 50% of staff costs on these stations. However, to reflect the inr-
creased intensity of activities under the project, a figure of 80% has been
used in cost estimates. Annual operating expenses at full development would
therefore be:
(57 X .3) X 187.5               g 3,206,250
(57 X .3) X .8 X 187.5          g 2,565,000
5,771,250
Cost entries in Annex 10 are based on two additional assumptions:
(i) build up of 40% in year 1, 80% in year 2 and
100% in year 3; and
(ii) 4% annual merit adjustment for all staff costs.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Specifications for Imported Cattle
General Requirements
(i) Each animal should be accompanied by a certificate of
basic soundness issued by a local veterinarian;
(ii)  The cattle should remain on the property of origin
fifteen (15) days before disembarkation, after inspec-
tion of the property by a local Government veterinarian,
to confirm there is no infectious disease present and
that the property is free of Leptospirosis;
(iii) The cattle should be certified Brucella and Tuberculosis
free, by a local veterinarian, who has tested them in
the preceding fifteen days;
(iv)  Vaccination for anthrax would be required before disem-
barkation;
(v)  Arrangements, should be made for vaccination for foot-
and-mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia before
arrival in Thailand;
(vi)  The local Government veterinarian must issue a health
certificate that the cattle have come from a disease
free herd, and he must state that the area is free of
BCPP (Bovine Contagious Pleuropneumonia);
(vii) It is desirable that about 50% of the imported cattle
be purebred.
(viii)  The Department of Livestock Development, RTG., must be
contacted prior to disembarkation of the cattle;
(ix)  Necessary vaccinations should be completed within 48
hours after boarding the ship (foot and mouth, haemorrhagic
septicaemia, etc.); and



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
(x) Shipment should be provided by a company experienced
in livestock transportation.
Bulls
(i)  The bulls should be of grey color to take advantage of
present established preferences of the Thai farmer;
(ii)  The bulls should have been resident in an area between
33N and 33OS parallel for at least 12 months prior to
shipment. This is to ensure that there is some reasonable
acclimatization to tropical conditions before arrival.
There should be preference given to animals bred within
the tropics;
(iii)  There should be a lower age limit of one year and
an upper age limit of four years as determined by
dentition;
(iv)  Bulls should have a minimum weight of 350 kg;
(v)  Bulls should be given a certificate of soundness by
a registered veterinarian.  The certificate of sound-
ness should include:
(a)  testicle, penis, prepuce and bulbo-urethal gland
examination;
(b)  semen examination;
(c)  inspection of animal during mating (including
mounting);
(d)  prepucial wash examination for vibrio and
trichomonas; and
(vi)  Bulls should have completed a course of vaccination for
vibriosis prior to shipment (in addition to vaccinations
required before entry).
Cows
(i) Provisions (i), (ii) and (iii) for bulls;
(ii) Cows should have a minimum weight of 350 kg at three
years;



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
(iii) Cows should have successfully reared one calf to
weaning;
(iv) Cows should be either non-pregnant, or less than
(iv) Cows should be either non-pregnant, or less than
five months pregnant, at the time of shipping,
as certified by a registered veterinarian;
(v) Pregnant cows should:
(a) be certified in calf to a Brahman bull;
(b) should have been given a certificate of sound-
ness by a registered veterinarian which should
also include a vaginal, cervical, uterine and
ovarian examination;
(c) should have mammary gland and teat examination.
(vi) It is also desirable but not essential that pregnant cows
drop their calves during February, March or April.
It is not recommended that any further cattle be imported after
those imported under this project. Frozen semen importation, however, should
be encouraged as the future method of breed introduction.
A mortality rate of 5% should be allowed for in-transit and
acclimatization mortalities.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROjECT
Artificial Insemination
Background
1.        The basic objectives of expanding artificial insemination (AI)
services in Thailand would be:
(a) to improve dairy cow productivity;
(b) to increase the size of the draught animals -
initially by the use of Brahmans;
(c) to increase beef cattle productivity by more
rapid dissemination of Brahman semen or semen
of bulls proven under Thailand conditionse
There are, at present, four separate Al services operating in various parts
of Thailand: Protein Enrichment Program, a military-sponsored program in
border areas; Thai-German Demonstration Farm near Chiang Mai; the Dairy
Promoter Organization (DPO), at Muak Lak, and the Livestock Development
Department (LDD).
2.        The LDD service is the largest by a significant margin and is
best suited for expansion. At present, there are 18 centers located in the
North, Northeast and Central Regions, Each is staffed by at least three
inseminators. Inadequate communication and transport are contribution
factors for the small number of animals inseminated at present (7841 in
1973). The final conception rate in that year was 67%, leaving scope for
considerable improvement in detection and insemination. Sixteen dairy bulls
are kept at Pratoon Thari Farm near Bangkok and a Brahman collection center
with up to 10 bulls is maintained at Khon Xaen, from which semen is shipped
to a frozen storage facility in Bangkok.  Collection centers and the central
laboratory and storage facility are to be expanded under a bilateral assist-
ance agreement with the Dutch Government, and will thereafter be capable of
providing and storing semen requirements for at least the next 10 years. I/
3.        The DPO service is exclusively for dairy cattle, and is limited
to a small radius around the farm and dairy at Nuak Lak. Red Dane semen
1/   Included in the Livestock Station Improvement component of this project
are several items required to complete centralized Al facilities:
2 bull barns (Tha Phra)              $35,000
Al Lab. equipment (Tha Phra)          40,000
Total        575,000



ANNEX 6
Page 2
is imported for this service, and semen from a locally-bred cross is
collected at the Muak Lak farm. Frozen storage facilities have recently
been provided under bilateral assistance from Denmark and a wider area could
be served in the future. However, the service will continue to be based on
Red Danes and Crosses, and field staff will be a constraint. It is tenta-
tively agreed that DPO semen will be distributed beyond the Muak Lak area
through other services, principally LDD.
Project Development
4.        Under the project, 23 new Al centers would be established, of which
seven would be located on breeding stations:
Proposed AI Centres
Lamphya Klang (Breeding Station)               Tar Yang
Ubon Ratchathani (Breeding Station)            Lampoon
Surin (Breeding Station)                        Rachburi
Udorn Thani (Breeding Station)                  Petchburi
Maha Sarakham (Breeding Station)               Nakhonrachsima
Sakolnakorn (Breeding Station)                 Khon Kaen
Chaiyaphum (Breeding Station)                  Ayudhya
Chieng Mai                                     Irang
Ubonrach thani                                  San Patong
Nakhonsrithamrai                                Songhia
Cholburi                                        (Plus two unidentified)
5.        From the current level of about 16,000 inseminations per year, the
program would increase to 160,000 after five years. This would provide for
an increase in AI-bred cows of about 1% of the total cow popuation per
year. The number of trained inseminators would increase from its present
50 to about 205, allowing an increase in inseminations per day from 1.3 to
3.0 (250 day basis). See Table 1 for program details. Emphasis wouild
initially be placed on serving those portions of the project's intensive
development areas which are readily accessible. For these areas, the field
development officers of its project would be trained as inseminators. In-
vestment costs for centers and inseminators appear in Table 2 of this Annex.
Table 3 presents additional staff requirements including provision for the
following posisitions:
(a)  The Director - who must be a graduate Veterinarian, have a
sound background in the practical application of AI and
animal breeding; and administration experience..
(b)  Laboratory Head - who requires a sound and detailed know-
ledge of all the practical aspects of laboratory work with
semen.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(c) Senior Clerical Officer - who, in addition to undertaking
the administrative work, would establish a system of field
records.
(d) Inseminators - the retraining of existing AI field officers
in modern AI techniques is necessary. Field Development
Officers will be trained in AI techniques, to operate from
breeding stations, and further inseminators will be trained
to operate from AI centers.
(e) Training Officer - a veterinarian with wide experience in AI
technique to arrange and plan adequate training programs
and training facilities for the rapidly expanding team of
inseminators.
The project would include the cost of a six-week study tour by the Al
Training Officer, the Chief of the Tha Phra Collection Center and the
Chief of the Central AI Laboratory, and two-week study tours by the first
15 AI Centre Chiefs to the AMUL dairy cooperative system in India. Two
bull barns and AI laboratory equipment are provided for Tha Phra under the
Station Improvement component of the project.
Insemination Fees
6.        At present, farmers are expected to pay only the transport cost of
the inseminator for AI services, except in the case of imported semen, when
the import cost is also charged. With a major expansion in Al services, a
fee structure would be established which would, in the initial stage, recover
at least a significant portion of the programs operating costs. In the
case of Thailand, individual cows are readily identifiable and a phased fee
structure is practicable. This would minimize the deterring effect of the
fees and provide an initial proving period of low cost to the farmer.
Under the project, it is proposed that insemination with local semen be free
in the first year for each cow but that fees of $ 50 and $ 100 be charged for
the second and third seasons respectively (second and third inseminations
in any one year would be free of charge.) A projected operating statement
for the AI program (exclusive of collection and central storage costs)
appears as Table 4.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Artificial Insemination Program-/
Year                              1         2           3           4 i
New AI Centres                   7          8           8          -           -
Additional Inseminators          25        35          30         25          20
Dairy Program                -                  Thousand Units ------------------
Cows Bred                       12         16         20          24          28
Inseminations                   24         32         4o          48          56
Domestic Supply./               15         18         22          29          36
Imported Supply                  9         14         18          12          20
Beef Draft Program
Cows Bred                       .1         .9        2.5         4.7        7.0
- intensive areas              -          -          -           -          -
- other areas                3.9      15.1        25.5        35.3       450.
- Total                      4.o      16.0        28.0        4o.o       52.0
Inseminations                  8.0       32.0       56.o        80.0      1o4.o
Domestic Supply2               6.o       21.0       42.0        63.0       84.o
Imported Supply                2.0       ll.0       14.0        17.0       20.0
Import Requirements
Dairy                            9         14         18          19          20
Beef/Draft                       2         11         14          17          20
Total                           11         _          32         37           70
1/ increase of 1% total cow population per year
2/ based on 7,000 doses per bull per year
r)ril I, 1i75



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARTIFICIAL INSEMlINATION PROGRAM
Investment Costs
(US Dollars)
Cost per centre                                                                    Total Cost             Foreign
or inseminator             Year 1        2      3       4        5        Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
A.I. Centres
Eqoip.sent
Nitrogen Storage Tasks                    1,000                   7,000     8,000  8,000                        2,300    20,700    23,000        90
Pistolettes                                 200                   1,400     1,600  1,600                          460     4,140     4,600        90
Miscellaneous                               200                   1,400     1,600  1,600                         460      4,140     4,600        90
Sob-Total                                 1,400                   9,800    11,200 11,200                        3,220    28,980    32,200
Vehicles
Motorcycle                                  600                   4,200     4,800  4,800                        1,380    12,420    13,800        90
Total                                 2,000                  14,000    16,000 16,000                       4,600    41,400    46,000
Inseminators2/
Equipment
Cryogenic Flask                             350                  26,250    12,250 10,500   8,750   7,000       6,475    58,275    64,750         90
Pistolettes and Pipettes                     50                   3,750     1,750  1,500   1,250   1,000         925      8,325     9,250        90
Sob-Total                                   400                  30,000    14,000 12,000  10,000   1,000       7,400    66,600    74,000
Vehicles
Motorcycle                                  600                  15,000    21,000 18,000  15,000  12,000        8,100    72,900    81,000        90
Total                                 1.00                  45,000    35,000 30,000  25,000  20,000       15,500   139,500   155,000
Physical Contingency (10%)                                          5,900       5,100   4,600   2,500   2.000    2,010    18,090    20,100         90
TOTAL BASE COST ESTIMATE                                           50,900    40,100 34,600  27,500  22,000       17,510   157,590   175,100        90
(4 '000)     1,007 8    794.0  685.1   544.5   435.6      346.7      3,120.3   3,467.0
1/ Seven centres in year, and eight in years 2 and 3
2/  Twenty-five new inseminators in year I plus equipment for existing 50;
35 in year 2; 30 in year 3; 25 in year 4; and 20 in year 5.
April 7, 1975



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION PROGRAM
Additional Staff Requirements >'
(B '000)
Year                 1                  2                   3                4                  5
Monthly             Monthly             Monthly            Monthly            Monthly             Monthly
Position          Salary   Positions    Cost   Positions   Cost   Positions   Cost  Positions   Cost  Positions    Cost
Director           5,50o        1        5.5        1       5.7        1        5.9       1       6.1        1         6.3
Lab-Chief          4,500        1        4.5        1       4.7        1        4.9       1       5.1        1        5.3
Training Officer   4,500        1        4.5        1       4.7        1        4.9       1       5.1        1        5,3
Sr. Clerical
Officer          2,500        1        2.5        1       2.7        1        2.9       1       3.1        1        303
Lab Technicians    1,500        2        3.0        2       3.4        3        5.7       3       6.3        3         6e9
Inseminators       1,500       25       37.5       60     102.0       90      171,0     115    241.5       135      310.5.
Clerical           1,200        2        2.4        2       2.8        3        4.8       3       5o4        4     it 48.0
Dispatchers        1, 200       1        12        2        2.8       2        3.2       3       5.4        3         6.o
Drivers            1,200        2        2.4        2        2,8       2        3.2       2       3.6        2        4eO
Monthly Total                           63.5              132.6               206.5             261.6               355.6
Annual Base Salary                     762.0            1,591.2             2,4780o           3,379.2             4,267.2
Retirement and
Welfare (20%)                          152.4              318.2               495.6             675.8               853.4   1
Allowances (5%)                         38,1               79.6               123.9             169.0                213.4  'c)-
Total Annual Cost                      952.5            1 989.0             3,097.5          4 224.0              5,334.0
1/  Costs include an average annual increment of $200/month.
April 7, 1975



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Artificial Insemination Program
Projected Operating Costs -1
(t '000 unless otherwise stated)
Year I          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4          Year 5           Year 6          Year 7           Year 8          Year 9           Year 10
INVESTMENT 2/                                                  980.1           871.2            762.3           653.4           544.5
OPERATING EXPENS ES
Salaries, Wages and Benefits 3/                              952.5          1989.0           3097.5          4224.0          5334.0           5856.7          6430.7           7060.9          7752.9           8512.6
Per Diem Allowances                                           45.0           122.4            205.2           289.8           372.6            409.3           449.4           493.5            541.8            594.9
Vehicle Fuel and Maintenance 4/                              500.0          1200.0           1800.0          2300.0          2700.0           2700.0          2700.0           2700.0          2700.0           2700.0
AI Supplies                                                   65.0           130.0            190.0           255.0           320.0            320.0           320.0            320.0           320.0            320.0
Equipment and Vehicle Depreciation (15%)                     147.0           256.3           352.8            433.6           497.9           497.9            497.9           497.9            497.9            497.9
Miscellaneous                                                 25.0            50.0             75.0           100.0           125.0            125.0           125.0            125.0           125.0            125.0
TOTAL                                              1734.5          3747.7           5720.5          7602.4          9349.5           9908.9         10523.0          11197.3         111937.6         12750.4
COST OF SEMEN
Imported                                                    1100.0          2500.0          3200.0           3600.0          4000.0          1600.0              -                -               -                -
Domestic 5/                                                  920.0          1560.0          2560.0           3680.0          4800.0          5760.0           6400.0          6400.0           6400.0           6400.0
TOTAL                                              2020.0          4060.0           5760.0          7280.0          8800.0           7360.0          6400.0           6400.0          6400.0           6400.0
TOTAL COST                                              3754.5           7807.7         11480.5         14882.4          18149.5         17268.9          16923.0         17597.3          18337.6         19150.4
COST PER COW BRED (g)                                          235.0           244.0            239.0           233.0           227.0            216.0           212.0            220.0           229.0            239.0
COST PER WEANED CALF (g)                                       392.0           407.0            398.0           388.0           378.0            360.0           353.0            367.0           382.0            398.0
(us$)                                      19.8            20.6             20.1            19.6            19.1             18.2            17.8             18.5            19.3             20.1
REVENUES 6/
First Year Participants                                        -             800.0           1600.0          1600.0          1600.0           1600.0          1600.0          1600.0           1600.0           1600.0
Second Year Participants                                                       -             800.0           1600.0          1600.0          1600.0           1600.0          1600.0           1600.0           1600.0
Third Year Participants                                                                         -             800.0          1600.0           1600.0          1600.0          1600.0           1600.0           1600.0
Fourth Year Participants                                                                                        -             800.0          1600.0           1600.0          1600.0           1600.0           1600.0
Fifth Year Participants                                                                                                         -              800.0          1600.0           1600.0          1600.0           1600.0
TOTAL                                                 -             800.0           2400.0          4000.0          5600.0           7200.0          8000.0           8000.0          8000.0           8000.0
NET OPERATING DEFICIT                                         3754.5          7007.7           9080.5         10882.4         12549.5          10068.9          8923.0           9597.3         10337.6          11150.4
1/ Based on stated build up during 5 year project period and constant thereafter.
2/ Details in Table 2.
3/ Details in Table 3.
4/ 10000 km/life @ p2/km.
5/ Assume domestic cost of semin collection and storage @ A40.
6/  Each cow free first year;  1%50, second year;  and $100, third year.                                                                                                                                              H
April 7, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                          > X



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VACCINE PRODUCTION AND DISEASE CONTROL
Present Situation
Disease Detection and Control
1.        The Livestock Development Department is responsible for disease
detection and control. Four divisions perform various related functions:
(a) Disease Control Division, of which the two main sections are
the Disease Eradication Section and the Quarantine Section;
(b) Biologics Division, which is responsible for the production of
most of the bacterial and viral vaccines and diagnostic re-
agents required in the country. (Apart from the vaccine pro-
duction laboratories at Pak Chong and Nong Sarai, the division
operates a diagnositc laboratory at Nong Sarai);
(c) Veterinary Services Division, which operates veterinary clinics
in the principal provincial towns (Although a small laboratory
is attached to most of the clinics, the main service provided
by them is clinical treatment of small and large animals); and
(d) Veterinary Research Division, which operates a central diagnos-
tic laboratory at Bangkok where research on animal diseases
is also undertaken.
2.        Each Changwat has a Provincial Veterinary Officer (72 in total) who
is responsible to the Director General for all technical matters, but admin-
istratively, however, is responsible to the Provincial Governor who is ap-
pointed by the Minister for the Interior. The Provincial Veterinary Officer
has an assistant Provincial Veterinary Officer and also an assistant in some
Amphurs (District). Many Amphurs do not have any veterinary personnel. The
Provincial Veterinary Officer and his staff in the districts are responsible
to carry out routine vaccinations and all other veterinary work. There are
only two (2) graduate Veterinarians as Provincial Veterinary Officers in
Thailand - all other Provincial Veterinary Officer positions are held by
non-graduate trained personnel.
3.        Six to nine provinces make up a region, and there are nine such
regions in the country. In each region there is a Regional Veterinary Officer,
whose responsibility is to coordinate all livestock work in the region and to



ANNEX 7
Page 2
implement it in the field. He is directly responsible to the Director General
of the Livestock Department. Of the nine Regional Veterinary Officers, five
are veterinary graduates.
4.        There are five mobile units employing a total of two experienced
and two young veterinary graduates and 125-130 lay vaccinators and veterinary
assistants. These mobile units are directly responsible to the Chief of the
Disease Control Division and are employed to vaccinate cattle in the buffer
zone for foot and mouth disease.
5.        The overall organization for animal health is presented in Chart I
of this Annex.
Vaccine Production
6.        The Livestock Department produces most of Thailand's vaccines and
diagnostic reagents at its laboratories at Pak Chong and Nong Sarai, 175 km
north of Bangkok. Levels of production have increased substantially between
1962 and 1972 and further increases are planned.
7.        Bacterial Vaccines (Anthrax, Blackleg, Brucella abortus Strain 19;
Fowl Cholera, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia, Pullorum and Brucella antigent):
These vaccines are produced by laborious processes resulting in some conges-
tion. The bacteriological department has an area of 5,064 sq ft of first
class laboratory buildings and a store of 570 sq ft used for filling, label-
ing, etc. The laboratories are well constructed and maintained, and reason-
ably well equipped. Research and development are restricted, partly
by shortage of space, but more by time-consuming production methods and lack
of workshop facilities.
8.        Viral Vaccine (Rinderpest, Swine Fever, Fowl Pox, Infectious
Bronchitis, Newcastle Disease, Foot-and-Mouth Disease): The Virus Department
has about the same area as the Bacteriological Department for production, but
is not as well equipped for research and development. More space is needed,
partly for increased production and partly for the research needed for
developing improved methods of production (tissue culture, suspended cell)
and partly for the production of new vaccines.
Project Components
Vaccine Production
9.        Vaccine production facilities of the LDD would be expanded under
the project to improve vaccine quality and to increase annual output by about
3.2 million doses as follows: Blackleg, 20,000; Brucella abortus strain 19,
150,000; Haemorrhagic septicaemia, 2 million; and Fowl Cholera, 1 million.
This would represent respective increases over present production of 50%
(no Brucella vaccine now produced), 115%, and 60%. Bilateral assistance



ANNEX 7
Page 3
from the Japanese government has been secured for the expansion of foot-and-
mouth vaccine production by 60% to 1.6 million doses annually. Cost details
of this component are presented in Table 1.
Disease Control
10.       A national policy for disease control exists only for foot-and-
mouth disease. The ad hoc approach to controlling other diseases is further
complicated by serious coordination and technical deficiencies. As a result,
the most effective use cannot be made of existing or expanded vaccine
supplies. Under the project, a Disease Control Advisor would be recruited
for a period of six months to review present practices and recommend
improvements. An FAO report on disease control in Thailand to be released
in the near future should be of use in this work (ref: R.A.S. /72/023/D/01/12
and R.A.F.E. 17). The cost of this Advisor is included in the Technical
Assistance component of the project.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vaccine Production
Component Costs
- - - -   US$ '000 - - - -          %
Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total     Exchange
Bacteriology Department
Steam Boiler                    1.8       16.2         18.0        90
Hot Air Oven                    o.6        5.4          6.o        90
Water Softener                  0.9        8.1          9.0         90
Still                           o.6        5.4          6.o        90
Capping Machine                 0.1        1.1          1.2         90
Semi-Automatic Filler           0.3        2.7          3.0        90
Deep Culture Vessels (8)        1.2       10.8         12.0        90
Miscellaneous                   0.5        h.5          5.0        90
Sub-total                 6h.0    6 .2
Virology Department
Freeze Driers (4)               8.o       72.0         80.0         90
Autoclave                       0.5        4.3          4.8         90
Hot Air Oven                    0.5        4.3          4.8        90
Egg Incubators (3)              o.6        5.4          6.o        90
Ampule Fillers (2)              o.8         7.6         8.h         90
Cryostat Freezing Microtome    0.1         1.1          1.2        90
Frraction Collector             0.2        2.2          2,L        90
Miscellaneous                   0.7        5.8          6.5        90
Sub-total                      1l.h      102.7        117.7
(;eneral
Liquid Filler/Copper            4.5       4o.5         45,0        90
Ampule Printer                  2.0       18.0         20.0         90
Sub-total                     __6._       T8M.        ____
Physical Contingency (1O%)        2.4       21.5         23i9
Total Base Cost Estimate         26.3      236.9        263.2        90
sti17, '7 5



L:I STC4K L-u-V   'X L  I  A.- - '
Vaccine ?rojcdu con and 3isease Control
ORG1hNIZATIOs
MINISTRY  OF juMINISTRY OF
INTERIOR                                 AGRICULTURE
PROVINCIAL                                 DIRECTOR
GOVERNOR                                  GENERAL
!                                 <~T
1 }      I DISEASE       BIOLOGIES         VET             VET.
CONTROL                     SERVICES        RESEARCH
VACCINE
MOBILE       PRODUCTION                     BANGKOK
UNITS        DIAGNOSTIC                    LABORATORY
LABORATORY
PROVINCIAL                                     FIELD
VETERINARIAN                                  LABORATORY
cz >
:y 



ANNEX 8
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSISTANCE TO DAIRY INDUSTRY
Project Assistance to Dairy Development
1.        Before any major expansion of dairying could take place, a number
of constraints must be removed. Furthermore, the most suitable extent and
nature of this development has not been adequately assessed to justify large
scale investment in new dairying at the present time. The dairy components
of the present project are therefore designed to remove such constraints and
provide for the assessment of future dairy investment requirements, culminat-
ing, if appropriate, in the preparation of a dairy project. Specifically, the
present project would include activities described in the following paragraphs.
2.        Supply of Milking Cows:  At the present time dairy heifers born on
private farms are, in most cases, kept by the original owners to build up
their own milking herds. As a result, very few good cows are available for
sale to expand existing herds or to establish new operations either by DPO
trainees 1/ or maize farmers who wish to diversify into mixed dairy farming.
Public sector assistance to accelerate the production of good dairy cows
seems desirable, and the present livestock project would meet this need in
part as follows: dairy-type cows now owned by the Livestock Development
Department would be inseminated with imported Holstein-Friesian semen.
Weaned heifers would be transferred to Tab Kwong breeding station (near
Muak Lak) and reared for sale as pregnant heifers to new farmers. About
600 heifers would be available for sale after the third year of the project.
Large scale inseminations of privately owned native cows with Holstein-
Friesian or other European cattle breed semen could also be a significant,
low-cost contribution of government to expanding the national dairy herd.
The first generation cross, though heterogenous, would on average be satis-
factory milk producers and good genetic material for further cross-breeding.
About 80,000 doses of Holstein-Friesian semen would be imported under the
project for use in the LDD Al service.
3.        Strengthening Dairy Promotion Organization:  To ensure the commer-
cial viability of DPO and thereby safeguard its usefulness as a demonstration
and training unit, several steps would be taken by Government:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(i) the appointment of a Deputy Director with both technical and
commercial experience relevant to the work of DPO;
(ii) the appointment of a qualified experienced accountant as
Finance Manager;
(iii) the implementation of a suitable accounting system, possibly
with the assistance of the National Audit Council;
(iv) the updating of all accounts, which would require the assist-
ance of accountants employed on contract from outside DPO; and
(v) the appointment of an experienced officer as Sales and Market-
ing Manager.
4.        Dairy Training:  Head office and field staff of the Cooperatives
Department are at present inadequately trained for the dairy development
work they are trying to accomplish. Under the project, training facilities
and the services of a Training Advisor would be provided to enable DPO to
extend its technical expertise to staff of the Cooperatives Department in
the first instance, and to other entities engaged in dairying.
5.        Feasibility Study/Project Preparation:  Funds would be provided
for the recruitment of consultants for a 2-phase study of dairying in
Thailand. The first phase would assess the financial, economic, and tech-
nical viability of a expanded domestic dairy industry; the second, if appro-
priate, would identify and prepare a dairy project for possible consideration
by the Bank or other financing agencies.
6.        Financial Analysis of Small Scale Dairy Farming:  The appraisal
mission for the present project has conducted financial analysis of tradi-
tional and specialized dairy farms. This analysis is to be provided to
BAAC to assist in its assessment of investment prospects for its own credit
program. Details appear in Tables 1 through 3 of this Annex.
Cost of Dairy Components
7.        The investment cost required for the increased supply of milk cows
is niegligible and operating costs are assumed to be recoverable in the sale
of pregnant heifers. The cost of strengthening DPO would result in identifi-
able and prompt improvements in its financial performance. The project would
therefore finance only training facilities, the Training Advisor and the Feas-
ibility Study/Project Preparation. Training facilities are estimated to cost
US$15,000 including: quarters for 15 participants, $12,000; modification to
existing classroom facilities, $5.000; training equipment, $3,000; physical
contingency, $2,000. Other costs appear under Technical Assistance, Annex 9.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New Dairy Farm - 25 Rai
Investment Costs
------Baht------------
Landi/                  Project Year        1                   2
1. 25 rai @ $1,500/rai                    37,500
2. House - 3 rooms                        15,000
3.  Fencing                                6,000
4.  Pasture Est flishment 12.5 rai/year
Ploughing-,                            700               700
Seed (g420/6.25 rai)                   850               850
Fertilizer                           3,100             3,100
5.  Stock - 4 cows and 1 heifer each
year @ 06,500 each                    32,500            32,500
6. Cans, buckets                             590                450
7.  Cowshed - 15 stancions                25,000
8.  Hand water pump                        2,000
9.  Casual Labor                           2,000_
Total                                125,240            37,600
Add Physical Contingencies                 5,065                465
(10% of items 2,3,4 & 7)               130,305            38,065
1/ Land already cleared by existing owners.
2/ Ploughing by hired equipment.
April 7, 1975



THA LAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New Dairy Farm - 25 Rai
Income & Expenditure Account
Project Year   1                2               3                4                5               6-10
Salesi!/                     Ton   Baht      Ton   Baht       Ton   Baht       Ton   Baht      Ton   Baht       Ton    Baht
Milk2/                     9.6  43,680    18.0  81,900    17.1  77,805    20.1  91,455    21.9  99,645    23.4  106,407
Cattle                             280              860           2,630            4.520            5,710             9,210
Total Income                      43,960           82,760          80,435           95,975          105,355           115,617
Expenses:
Labor - Famil3/                14,400           14,000          14,000           14,000           14,000            14,000
Boy_r                    1,800           1,800            1,800            1,800           1,800             1,800
Animal Health (free AI)
#60/head                           300              600             660              780              840               900
Feed 5                            12,670           27,400          31,350           36,900           41,840           41,520
Fertilize ._/                       --             31,000           6,200            6,200            6,200             6,200
Pasture Renewal                     --               --              --                750              750               750
Repairs & MaintenanceL/             --              1,500           1,500            1,500            1,500             1,500
Electricity-V                        420              420             420              420              420               420
Water Supply-$60/month               720              720              720             720              720               720
Milk Transport-$1,800/
can/yr             1,800            3,600           3,600            3,600            3,600             4,400
Land Tax2/                           100              100             100              100              100               100
Interest on Working
Capital @ 12%                      120             --              --               --               --               --
32,330          53,640           60,750          67,170           72,170            72,170
Profit                            11,630          29,120           19,685           28,805          33,185            43,447
1/  15 adult cows                    / Milking cows:  1 kilo   2 kilos milk.   6/  4.1 ha @ 190 kg/ha urea; $7.25/kg. CD
(10 purchased, 5 reared).           Others      : kilo/animal unit/day.       Z/  Cowshed $500-fences $1,000/year.        c 
2/  ( $4,550/ton.                       Calf starter:  75 kilos/calf               8/  50 units x 12 months @ $0.7/unit.
3/  Farmer and wife.                    Rough age   : #200/animal unit/year.    2/  $4/rai.
4/ #150/month; 4 hrs/day.
April 7, 1975



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New Dairy Farm - 25 Rai
Cash Flow
--------------------------------- ----------------------- BAHT --------------------------------------------_- ______-__-___-______
Project Year            1           2           3            4            5            6             7            8           9            10          11         12-15
1.  Capital Expenditure!1              130,305      38,065
Financed as follows:
2.  Loan  80%                         104,245       30,450
3.  Own Capital 20%                     260,60       7,615
130,305      38,065
4.  Gross Income                        43,960      82,760      80,435      95,975      105,355       155,617      115,617      115,617
5.  Less Operating Expenses             32,330      53,640      60,750      67,170       72,170        72,170       72,170       72,170
6.  Income before Taxation              11,630      29,120      19,685      28,805       33,185       43,447        43,447       43,447
7.  Net Benefit Stream               (118,555)    ( 8,945)      19,685      28,805       33,185       43,447        43,447       43,447      43,447       43,447      43,447       43,447
Financial Rate of Return   =           21%
Cash Flow:
8. Net Cash inflow before
Tax (as above)                   11,630      29,120      19,685       28,805       33,185       43,447       43,447        43,447      43,447      43,447       43,447      43,447
9.  Less Income Tax                       --          --          --            49           385        1,200        1,327         1,456       1,584       1,712       1,840        1,976
11,630      29,120      19,685      28,756       32,800       42,247        42,120       41,991      41,863       41,735      41,607      41,471
10.  Working Capital Loan                 1,000    ( 1,000)        --           --           --           --            --           --          --           --          --          --
Cash Flow before Debt 2ervice           12,630      28,120      19,685      28,756       32,800        42,247       42,120       41,991       41,863      41,735      41,607       41,471
11.  Less Debt Service2                  12,509      16,163      23,068         23,068      23,068        23,068                  23,068       23,068      23,068      23,068       23,068
12.  Surplus                                121      11,957      (3,383)      5,688        9,732        19,179       19,052       18,923       18,795      18,667      18,539       18,403
13.  Cumulative Surplus                              11,078       7,695      13,383       23,115        42,167       61,090       80,013       98,808    117,475    136,014    209,626
1/  Annex  8 , Table  .                                                                                                                                                                      c|
2/  Income Tax - 7% on 1st -   10,000; 10% on next $40,000 on net income after interest                                                                                                     Xx
and perxonal allowances (20% on net income plus I12,000 for family of 3).                                                                                                                w X
3/  Loan repayable over 12 years at 12% per annum; grace period - 2 years.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. Internationally-Recruited Advisers
Pasture Development Advisors (3 Years)
1.        The Pasture Development Advisor would assist with the production and
distribution of pasture seed, particularly Townsville stylo, and with the
development of plans for pasture improvement in the project area, including
site selection criteria. He would assist in the training of project person-
nel and would be expected to travel extensively in the project area to liaise
with Field Development Officers and to advise on demonstrations and particular
project implementation difficulties. In addition he would develop and super-
vise a project monitoring system. The system would, inter alia, assess actual
area planted as against planned area, performance of introduced species,
farmer response to pasture improvements, and accrued benefits. The Pasture
Development Adviser would also recommend and assist with applied research
projects in the fields of seed production, pasture establishment, pasture
productivity under village conditions and field trial of new pasture species.
In matters related to seed production and processing, his role would be one
of support and follow-up for the work of the Seed Production and Processing
Advisor.
2.        The successful candidate should have at least five years of ex-
perience with tropical pastures, including experience in the establishment
and utilization of Townsville stylo. He would be based in Khon Kaen and
would be expected to travel extensively in Northeast Thailand. Knowledge of
the Thai language or a principal dialect of the Northeast would be a distinct
advantage.
Seed Production and Processing Advisor (3 Months)
3.        The Seed Production and Processing Advisor would assist LDD and
the Land Development Department in matters relating to the establishment and
management of pasture seed plots (primarily Townsville stylo), harvesting,
cleaning and handling techniques, and seed storage, including on-the-job
training of departmental staff. He would also assist in the design of field
trials and applied research related to seed production and processing.
During his assignment, he would work in close cooperation with the Pasture
Development Advisor.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        The successful candidate should have at least five years experience
in the production and processing of tropical pasture seed, including extensive
practical experience with Townsville stylo. Related experience in a develop-
ing country would be an advantage. The base of operations would be at or
near Khor Kaen. In selecting this advisor, the Director General, LDD, will
consult with the Director General of the Land Development Department. At
the discretion of the Director General, LDD, the assignment could be broken
into two annual visits.
Livestock Research Adviser (total 14 months)
5.        The Livestock Research Adviser would assist the Livestock Develop-
ment Department to establish an expanded program of research at its breeding
stations in the Northeast. Priority areas for research include:
-    breed evaluation with initial emphasis on Brahman;
-    progeny testing programs including a data collection system;
-    nutrition, including mineral supplementation and the feeding
of crop residues such as kenaf leaves, rice husks and locally
grown supplements such as cassava and soya bean meal;
-    husbandry practices such as calving times, weaning, and night
yarding; and
-    animal health including the effects and control of internal
and external parasites, and infertility diseases.
He would also advise and assist in the preparation of annual work programs
for the breeding stations and their coordination into an overall regional
program. Base of operations would be the Tha Phra Breeding Station near
Khon Kaen.
6.        The successful candidate should have at least five years experience
with a research organization engaged in tropical livestock research, and
should have conducted or directed substantive work with Brahman cattle.
Experience in a developing country would be a significant advantage. He
would be expected to travel among breeding stations in the Northeast.
Disease Control Adviser (6 months)
7.        The Disease Control Adviser would review present disease control
practices in Thailand, primarily for cattle and buffalo, including intelli-
gence, prevention and treatment procedures and the organization of disease
control resources. Based on this review, he would prepare recommendations
to improve the effectiveness of disease control practices, including pro-
jected training requirements. He would be based in Bangkok but would be
expected to travel extensively in Thailand during the early stages of his
assignment.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8.        The successful candidate should be a graduate veterinarian with at
least five years practical experience in tropical disease control. In addi-
tion he should have a proven capacity to plan and/or supervise disease control
programs, preferably by having occupied a responsible position in an agency
charged with disease control.
Vaccine Production Advisor (3 months)
9.        The Vaccine Production Advisor would assist the Animal Biological
Production Division, LDD, in the improvement of vaccine production techni-
ques and provide advanced training of departmental staff in viral and bac-
terial vaccine production. He would be based at Pak Chong although regular
contact with the Nong Sarai laboratory and Bangkok headquarters would re-
quire some domestic travel.
10.       The successful candidate should have a graduate degree in a
related discipline and at least five years experience in viral and bacterial
vaccine production.
Agricultural Training Adviser (3 months)
11.       The Agricultural Training Adviser would assist DPO in the design
of curricula for training in milk production, processing and marketing to
be offered initially to field staff and head office staff of the Cooperatives
Department. These courses would be designed to meet the practical needs of
dairying in Thailand to which end some domestic travel would be required.
The adviser would be based in Muak Lak although regular consultations in
Bangkok would be required.
12.       The successful candidate should have a degree in agriculture and
at least three years practical dairy experience, preferably in a tropical
country. In addition he should have at least three years experience in
agricultural training, preferably in a developing country.
II. Study Tours
13.       Selected senior staff engaged in the project in the following fields
would participate in study tours to be arranged in consultation with project
advisors and the Resident Mission: artificial insemination training (1),
semen processing and storage (1), pasture research (2), livestock research
(2) and disease control (2). Tours would be expected to last 6 weeks to 2
months each and would take place within the first two years of the project.
In addition, 15 designated chiefs of AI Centers would travel to India to
study the AI program of the Anand Milk Producers' Cooperative Union in
Gujarat. A period of 1 week in India is envisaged.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Ill. Dairy Development: Feasibility/Preparation
14.       Consultants would be engaged initially to conduct a feasibility
study for the development of dairying in Thailand. This first phase would
be expected to require about 6 man-months of work and would pay particular
attention to the economic desirability of an expanded domestic dairy indus-
try. The identification of alternative development strategies would be in-
cluded if its conclusion is positive. On the basis of this study, which
would be submitted to the Bank for comment, and the mutual agreement of the
Bank and Government, the second phase would assist with the preparation of
a project based on the selected development strategy. This second phase
would be expected to require about 12 man-months.
IV. Funds for Pasture Research
15.       Funds would also be provided for specific pasture research activ-
ities to be carried out by recognized agricultural research and development
organization within Thailand. These might include, inter alia, the Land
Development Department, Khon Kaen University, and Kaesetsart University.
Utilization of these funds for pasture research within LDD would be accept-
able for specific research schemes, but the LDD component should not exceed
25% of total. Grants would be used for materials, equipment and operating
expenses other than staff salaries, and would be awarded on the basis of
suitability and priority for the development of pastures in the Northeast.
Selection of project proposals would be made by a panel of not more than
three senior Government officials, including the Director General, LDD, and
consultation with the Senior Forage Research Officer (LDD) and the project
Pasture Development Adviser would be required. Funds would also be provided
for limited field trials of phosphorus and sulphur applications to Townsville
stylo.



7tAILANID
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIMNT PROJECT
Teclnical Assistance
Conoonent Costs
(US$ t00-0 )
Total             Foreign
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Yoxr L    Year 5    Local   Foreign   Total   Exohange
1. Advisors:  Pasture Develogient   50.0        50.0         -         -          -        10.0      90.0    100.0       90
Pasture Seed
Production           25.0        -          -         -          -         2.5      22.5     25.0       90
Livestock Research    25.0       50.0       25.0       4.2       1h.2       10.8      97.6    108.4       90
Disease Control          -       25.0         -          -         -         2.5      22.5      25.0      90
Vaccine Production    12.5       12.5         -          -         -         2.5      22.5      25.0      90
Agricultural TrainrinE,   -      12.5                    -                   1.3      11.2     12.5       90
Sub-total      112.5    150.0       25.0        4.2       L,.2      29.6    266.3    295.9         90
2.  Study Tours /                     16.8      42.0         -         -          -          .6     58.2      58.8       99
3.  Dairy Development Feasib1 ty
Stu y/P.-enaration/2            67.5       7.5        -          -          -        5.2      69.8      75.0       93
.  Pasture ?Lesearc.                   _      10.0       15.0       15.C        _       _2.0       20.0      40.0       50
Total vr3 ' .       20C.5       4C.C      19.2        4.2       5,.    414.3    465.7         88
/1  Ei: :t tours, each with the  I          sutw_r  o ic.-    ore_gn travel  1,500; suusIstence $40/day icr 30 days;     - z
aormesoic -rave- anc SUDSOs-,ence  luC  alsc. 20 one week tours to St.udv    - kT  -r -rEm or  ast-Ure developme t
larc-.rar,;s  t;L ,i,O'  (-a >,S
//       siumie Ifrst pranse cf stu: l- t  prots     rp-ratioL:  0 mrao-.;cos zIrst phase plus 12 man-mor:trhs
se on'  -
Oh     'I ,  c



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost EstiKeton
YEAR I                             YEAR 2                              YTlR 3                              YEAR 4                              YEAR 5                           TOTAI. PROJECT               Forei
Locoa     Fermi00      Tol         Co.elI     Fore-ig      Totol       Locol      Foreign      Total       Co-e       F i          Ttal        Local      Foreige      Total       Cot                                  Exchange
SEED PRODUCTION
Lend Development                          26.3         2.9        29.2        26.4         3.0        29.4         2.9          .3        3.2         2.9           .3         3.2         -            _          _          58.5         6.5       65.0            FE
Buildings                                  3.5        14.0        17.5         3.5        14.0        17.5          .4         1.5        1.9         .4           1.5         1.9         -            -                      7.8        31.0       38.8            20
Machinory and Fquipm.ent                   2.6        23.0        25.6         2.7        23.1        15.8          .2         2.5        2.7          .2          2.5         2.7         -            -          _           5.7        51.1       56.8            90
Vehiclee                                   1.3        11.2        12.5         1.3        11.2        12.5          .1         1.2        1.3         .1           1.2         1.3         -            _          _           2.8        24.8       27.6            90
Opertiog REpoReen                         18.4         2.D        20-4        31.7         3.5        35.2        32.9         3.2      36.6        34.-6         3.9         39.5      35.5           4.0       39m5        113.2        17.0      170.2           LR
Shb-tetel                       52.1        53.1       105.2        65.6        54.8       120.4        36.5         9.2       45.7        38.2          9.4        47.6       35.5          4.0       39.5        228.0       130.4       350.4           36
DEVELOPMENT OF BREEDING STATIONS
Lond Development                          29.0         3.2        32.2        38.6         4.3        42.9        29.0         3.2      32.2          -             -           -          -            -          -          96.6        10.7      107.3           10
Buildings                                173.8        49.1       222.9        95.5        26.9       122.4        71.5       20.2       91.7          -             -           -          -            _          -         340.8       386.2      437.0           22.
Mechinery aRd Ectipne.t                   27.6       156.5       184.1        36.8       208.6       245.4        27.6       156.5     184.1           -            -           -          .            -          .          92.0       521.6      613.6            85
Vehicles                                   2.9        26.3        29.2         3.9        34.9        38.8         2.9        26.3      29.2                              -          -                       -                 9.7        87.5       97.2           90
Imported CKttle                             -        600.0       600.0          -        600.0       600.0                                             -            -          -                                                -     1,200.0   1,200.0            100
Operat-ig Erpenses                       104.9        11.7       116.6       215.7        24.0       239.7       274.2        30.5     304.7       2S0.5         31.2       311.7      287.1          31.9     319.0       1,162.5       129.2   1.291.7            10
Och-tetel                      338.2       846.8    1,185.0        390.5       898.7    1,289.2        405.2       236.7      641.9       280.5         31.2       311.7      287.1         31.9      319.0      1,701.6    2,045.2   3,746.8 04
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION PROGRAM
Buildings                                 69.0        17.3        86.3          -           -           -           -           -          -           -            -           -          -            -          -          69.0        17.3       86.3           20
Equipment                                  2.1        18.9        21.0         2.3        21.0        23.3         3.0       27.3       30.3         2.1         10.9        21.0         2.1        18.9       21.0          11.7      104.9       116.8           90
Vehicles                                   2.3        20.4        22.7         2.5        22.9        25.4         3.3        29.5      32.8         2.3         20.4         22.7        2.3         20.4      22.7          12.6       113.7      126.3           90
Imported Semen                              -         55.6        55.6          -       126.3        126.3          -       161.6      161.6          -         101.0       101.8         -         202.0      202.0            -       727.3       727.3          100
Oporoting Expenses                        78.8         8.8        87.6       170.4        18.9       189.3       260.0       28.9      288.9       345.5         38.4       383.9      425.0         47.2      472.2      1,279.7        142.2   14_21.9            10
8S.-total                      152.2       121.0       273.2       175.2       189.1       364.3       266,3       247.3      513.6       349.9        259.5       609.4      429.4        288.5      717.9      1,321.3    1,157.1   2,478.4              46
FIELD DEVELOPMENT STAFF
Vehicles                                   4.8        43.4        48.2         3.8        33.8        37.6          .6         6.0       6.6                        -           -          -            -          -           9.2        83.2       92.4           90
Opersting Expeenes                       129.2        14.4       143.6       134.5        14.9       149.4       175.7        19.6     195.3       177.8         19.8       197.6      179.9         20.1      199.9         797.2        88.6      8850 8          10
Shb-total                      134.0        57.8       191.8       138.3        40.7       107.0       176.3        25.6     201.0        177.8         19.0       197.6      179.9         20.0 0    1999         806.4       171.0      97.28
VACCINE PRODUCTION
8uilding                                  19.2         4.8        24.0          -           -           -           -           -          -          -             -           -          -            -          -          19.2         4.8       24.0           20
Equipm.ent                                10.5        94.8       105.3        15.8       142.1       157.9                                                                                                                    26.3      236.9       2632            9
Operotieg Expeense                        48.2         5.4        53.6       120.7        13.4       134.1       120.7        13.4     134.1       120.7         13.4       134.1      120.7         13.4      134.1        531.0         59.0      590.0           10
SDb-totel                       77.9       105.0       182.9       136.5       155.5       292,0       121.7        13.4       34.1       120.7         13.4       134.1      120.7         13.4      134.1        576.3       300.7       77.24
DAIRY TRAINING
Building                                  15.0         3.7        18.7          -           .           -           -                      -          -             -           -          -            -          -          15.0         3.7       18.7           20
Equipment                                   .3         3.1         3.3                -           -           -           -          -                -             -           -         -             -         _             .3         3.0        3.3           90
Sub-tottl                       15.3         6.7        22.0          -           -           -           -           -                      -                                                                      15.3         6.7       22.0           30
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
International Advisors                    11.3       101.2       112.5        15.0       135.0       160.0         2.5       22.5       25.0          .4          3.0         4.2         .4          3.6        4.2         29.6       266.3       295.9           90
Study Toore                                 .2        16.6        16.8          .4        41.6        42.0          -           -          -          -             -           -          -            -          -            .6        58.2       58.8           99
Leiry Feashbility/Prep-retion              4.6        57.4        62.0          .9        12.1        13.0          -           -         -                                                                                   5 -  -  -  -  3.2  69.8  75.0         93
Pesture Rose-rch                            _              _                   5.0        50         10.0         7.5         7.5      15.0          7.5          7.5        15.0         -            _          _         20.0         20.0       40.0           50
Sob-ettl                       16.1       175.2       191.3        21.3       193.7       215.0        10.0        30.1       4010         7.9         11.3        19.2         .4          3.8        4.2         55.4       414.3      469.7           88
TOTAL BASE COST ESTIMATE (Jan/75)1/        785.8    1,365.6    2,151.4         927.4    1,540.5    2,467.9    1,015.0          562.2   1,577.2       975.0         344.6    1,319.6   1,053.0          361.6   1,414.6      4,756.2    4,174.5   8,430.7              47
PRICE CONTINGENCYTZ                         59.9        73.9       133.8       229.2       238.5       467.7       279.4       201.4     480,8       455.5         129.8      585.3      699.8         101.9     081.7       1,723.8       825.5   2,549.3            32
TOTAL PROJECT COET                         845.7    1.439.5           2.93 5,1           1.7790           .6    1,294.4        763.6   2,058.0    1.430.5         474.4    1,904.9   1752.8           543.5   2,296.3       6,400.0    5.000.0  1                     44
I  Inoludes physioel .netingenny of 107. en all items exnept operaticg nests sod t-chonicl ossistonce.
2/  Derived prlce  -ontingencies have been iEnreased by  bohet $20,000 to cond project cents.E
October 9, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                                  Quarterly         Cumulative Total
Fiscal Year                         Disbursement          Disbursement
- --------US$ '000 -
FY '76 3rd Quarter                       150                   150
4th                               300                   5o
FY '77 1st    "                          320                   770
2nd    "                         410                 1,180
3rd    "                          350                1,530
hth                               425                1.955
FY '78 1st    "                          425                 2,380
2nd    "                         500                 2,880
3rd    "                          300                3,18o
4th    "                          325                3,505
FY '79 1st    "                          350                3,855
2nd    "                         325                 4,18o
3rd    "                          100                4,280
4th    "110                                          4,390
FY '80 1st    "                          100                 ,490
2nd    "                         120                 4,610
3rd    "                          100                4,710
4th    "                          100                4,810
FY '81 1st    "                          100                4,910
2nd    "                           90                5,0oo
October 8, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 2
THAILAND
L.IVE:3TOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                   Amount              Terms
I.  Machinery, Equipment,           $ 3.20 million    100% of c.i.f. or 100%
Vehicles, Cattle,                                  ex-factory or 65% off-
Frozen Semen, and                                  the-shelf for machinery
Pasture Seed                                       equipment and vehicles
if locally procured.
II.  Buildings                       $ 0.15 million    25% against certified
statements of expenditures
and invoice, respectively
III.  Internationally recruited       $ 0.35 million    100% of foreign expenditure
advisors and consultants
IV.  Research and study tours        $ 0.10 million    100% against certified
statement of expenditure
V. Unallocated                      $ 1.20 million
TOTAL    $ 5.0Q million
October 8, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 3
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIMIET PROJECT
Project Financing Summary
RTG              IBRD
US$000   %        US$000   %          TOTAL
Seed Production            255.3  71         103.1  29          358.4
Breeding Stations        1,828.L4  49      1,918.4  51         3,746.8
AI Progrom               1,510.7   61        967.7  39         2,478.4
Intensive Area Staff       895.o  91          83.2    9          978.2
Vaccine Production         623.5  71         253.7  29          877.2
Dairy Training              14.7  66           7.3  33            22.0
Technical Assistance        35.4    7        434.3  93         1469.7
Sub-total 5,163.0            3,767.7            8,930.7
Price Contingency        1,317.0           1,232.             2,549.3
TOTAL    6,480.0  56%      5,000    144%     11,1480.0
October 8, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Introduction
1.        Within the Thai civil service, program, budget and staff authority
is vested primarily in the Directors General of Departments. While inter-
departmental coordination is highly desirable in many cases, it is difficult
to effect. All components of the proposed project, except dairy training
and the dairy study, would be executed by the Livestock Development Depart-
ment (LDD). The latter components would be executed independently by the
Dairy Promotion Organization and the Office of the Under Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture, respectively.
Livestock Development Department
2.        This department, headed by a Director General, is organized into
Divisions along technical lines (see Chart I). Breeding stations to be im-
proved under the project are among those in the region operated by the Animal
Breeding Division. Forage stations to be used for pasture seed production
and research are operated by the Animal Nutrition and Forage Crop Division.
Vaccine production would be the responsibility of the Animal Biological
Products Division, and the AI program would be carried out by the Artificial
Insemination Division.
Overall Project Management
3.        Vaccine production and artificial insemination components of the
project represent expansions of ongoing national programs. It is therefore
appropriate that overall project management be vested in the Director General,
LDD. Day-to-day management would be delegated to Division Chiefs, but the
Director General would, consistent with established procedures, retain control
of annual programs and budgets. Field development in the Northeast, includ-
ing pasture development, seed production, breeding station development and
the "loaned bull" program would be supervised by a Regional Project Manag-
er based at Tha Phra, who would be directly responsible to the Director
General. Project organization is depicted in Chart 2.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Organization for Intensive Development Areas
4.        Field Development Officers (FDO).  These officers would be the
major and regular field link through whom project assistance would be
channeled to farmers in the project area. Of the 60 FDOs to be required
at full development, it is estimated that about 20 would be reassigned
from elsewhere in LDD, and the balance would be recruited from outside the
department.  FDOs would have at least a diploma in agriculture and would
receive 6 weeks training in pasture development and beef/draft animal husbandry.
Additional training would be provided for FDO's required to act as AI insem-
inators in their territories. While it is desirable that these officers re-
side as near as possible to their respective territories, suitable accommoda-
tion in most cases would not be available below the Amphur (District) town
level. Each officer would be provided with a motorcycle and per diem allow-
ances adequate to allow visits to each project unit (usually a village)
twice a week. Actual frequency would vary with season and the activities
taken up by any particular village (e.g. AI vs Loaned Bull Program).
5.        Technical Support.  Breeding stations strategically located through-
out the project area would have on staff a Pasture Development Officer (PDO)
and a Livestock Development Officer (LDO). Each would have at least a
baclhelor's degree in agriculture and related experience, probably within the
department, and it is expected that they would be recruited from within the
department. In addition, they would receive 2-3 weeks orientation in project
strategy and, as required, additional technical training of up to one month.
Typically there would be 8-10 FDOs in the territory of any breeding station,
and PDOs and LDOs would be expected to provide technical backstopping for
the field work of the officers in their territories. In addition, PDOs
would establish and supervise pasture demonstrations, and LDOs would recom-
mend beneficiary Farmers' Groups for the "loaned bull" program, regularly
inspect bulls, and maintain records for the program. Difficult technical
issues would be referred to the Senior Livestock Officer and the Senior
Pasture Officer, located at Tha Phra. Senior Officers would visit breeding
stations regularly. All officers referred to in this paragraph would be
provided with sedans or pick-up trucks.
Regional Project Unit
6.        Tha Phra Breeding Station would be the regional headquarters for the
project 1/. It is ideally suited for this purpose, being central to the
region, located on a major highway, and only several kilometers from Khon
Kaen, the largest city of the region, offering the amenities and services
required to attract senior staff of good caliber. This station is also
close to the regional research center and Khon Kaen University. Project
management would consist of a Regional Project Manager, a Senior
1/   Research and production work also be carried on at this station but
this would be distinct from its function as project headquarters.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Pasture Officer, a Senior Livestock Officer, and the Pasture Development,
Seed Production and Livestock Research Advisors (internationally-recruited).
In addition, a Central Mobile Unit for pasture development work would be
based at Tha Phra, as would a Central Training Unit and a Central Seed
Processing and Storage Unit.
7.        Regional ProJect Manager.  This senior officer would be re-
sponsible to the Director General for the supervision of project components
within the region. This supervision would be based on an annual project
work program to be prepared in cooperation with the Senior Pasture and
Livestock Officers and submitted to the Director General. In addition to
field development, the Manager will oversee project research and produc-
tion activities on breeding and forage stations. 1/ Another important function
would be, as a member of the Regional Agricultural Research Board, to ensure
the coordination of research activities of the department with related work
being done at the Northeast Agricultural Research Center (Tha Phra) and else-
where in the region.
8.        Senior Pasture Officer.  This officer would have graduate training
and extensive experience in pasture research. His primary responsibilities
would be:
(i) pasture seed production, including overall supervision of the
Central Seed Processing and Storage Unit;
(ii) pasture development, including program phasing, seed distribu-
tion and technical support;
(iii) pasture research, including annual work programs and liaison
with other agencies; and
(iv) overall supervision of the Central Miobile Unit and the Central
Training Unit.
9.        Senior Livestock Officer.  This officer would have graduate train-
ing and extensive experience in animal husbandry. 2/ His primary responsibil-
ities would be:
(i) supervision of research and production activities on breeding
stations to be improved under the project, including the
preparation of annual work programs for each station and
liaison with other agencies; and
1/   The courier service among stations, to be introduced under the project,
would be administratively situated in the office of the Manager.
2/   In recognition of the shortage of trained livestock research officers
in Thailand, this position would be supported by a Livestock Research
Advisor.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(ii) livestock development in project areas including phasing of
AI and "loaned bull" programs in conjunction with pasture
development program.
10.       Internationally-Recruited Advisors.  The Pasture Development
Seed Production and Livestock Research advisors would be based at Tha Pra
and work closely with the respective Senior Officers. Duties and qualifica-
tions appear in Annex 9, Technical Assistance.



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development Dlepartm.t
DIRECTOR GEiERAL
OFFICE OF THE SECHSTAHY      |FINANCE DIVISION                PERSONNEL DIVISION              PLANNING DIVISION
}Correspondence Section        -Cash Section
Report Compilation Section    -Account Section
Stores Section
. Wlfaire Section
DMISEASE CONTROL DIVISION   | VETERINARY RESEARCH       |     VETERINARY SERVICE              ANIMAL BIOLOGICAL
j & EDUCATION DIVISION           DIVISION                        PRODUCTION DIVISION
ANIMAL BREEDING       ANIMAL NUTRITION AND         AR'T'FICIAL       REGIONAL            PROVINCIAL LIVESTOCK OFFICE
DIVISION              FORACE CROP DIVISION         INCEMINATION      LIVESTOCK                         __._-
DIVISION          OFFICE
AXPEWR LIVESTOCK O
1i~
2IF
H 3



ANNEX 12
THAILAND                                   Chart 2
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
UNDER SECRETARYtS OFFICE
Ninistry of  Agriculture   -(Dairy Study)
DIRECTOR GENERAL
| Livestock Development Dept
ANIMAL BIOLOGICAL      DISEASE CONTROL       ANIM4AL NUTRITION          ANIMAL BREEDING    ARTIFICIAL            DAIRY PROMOTION
PRODUCTS DIVISION      DIVISION (Disease       FORAGE DIVISION             DIVISION         INSEMINATION          ORGANIZATION
(Vaccine Productio4    Control Survey)               1(/                      1             DIVISION              Dairy Trainin
 -I
'REGIONAL PROJECT'
I   COORDINATOR
r------- -----[-     ;------~       ~--
SEIIOR PASTURE           ISENIOR LIVESTOCK
OFFICER    '          '     OFFICER
dkUL--VQ-KLLU QBEui-T-_- 
LCETRL TRAINING UNIT'j
'CENTRAL PROCESSING &
BREEDING STATIONS
_(S tation Development)
FORAGE STATIONS              PASTURE         |  LIVESTOCK  '              Al
(Seed Production)            DEVgLOPM~ENT        DEVELOPMENT,-         CENTE,RS
(Pasture  Gesearch         'OFFICERS         '  OFFICGRS_CENT2S
'FIELD DEVELOPMENT:             INSEMIfNATORS |
L    OFFICERS      '                          i
(Pasture Development)
(Loaned Bull Program)
- New Position
1/   Division Chiefs will continue to control station administration through Station Chiefs.
i/ Breedings stations will serve a' AI Center within the project area.
2/ Field Development Officers will also be inseminators within those portions of the
project area served by AI.



THA LAND
LtI% L u(CK DE VELOPMENT PROJECT
JPERUTING RESULTS
roituct Cost SM.arins.
1.        This project is intended to expand and improve services to the
livestock induistry which are traditionally provided in Thailand by the
public sectcz at no cost to beneficiaries. With the exception of pasture
seed and A. services, this practice is consistent with that of most coun-
tries.  :asture seed cost under the project would be very small per ben-
eiicia y, and the accrual of benefits under common grazing practices does
not 1acilitate direct cost recovery. A fee structure for AI would be
int oduced under the project. Nevertheless, project costs would be pre-
dKminantly governmient outlay, and the annual budget requirement would
reach a peak of about US$1.79 million ($ 35.4 million) in year 5. 1/
2.        Physical and financial results of the AI program and Intensive
Development Area activities are presented in the following tables.
1/   Project cost, $2.28 million; Bank reimbursement, $.42 million;
AI recovery, $.07 million. (Assuming 80% sale of available semen).



ANNEX 13
Table I
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Results
AI Program 1/
Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5.        Year 6         Year 7
Intensive Area Villages                             40            150             150            150            150
into Loaned Bull Program                       35            119            100             100            100
into Al Program                                 5             31             50             50              50
(Al Doses Required) 21                       220             335            450            450            450
1364           2074           2790           2790
2200           3350           4500
2200           3350
2200
Total                        220           1699           4724            8790          13290
Round and Adjust for Losses             250           1800            5000           9300          14000
Available Al Doses                         32000           64000          96000         128000          160000
Doses Available Outside of Intensive Areas   31750              62200          91000          119700         146000
Cows Bred                                  15875           31100          45500          59850           73000
of Which Dairy                             12000           16000          20000          24000           28000
Beef                               3875          15100          25500           35850          45000
Weaning Rate:           60%
Adolescent Mortality: 4/,
OUTSIDE PROJECT AREA
Incremental
Incremental Value of FP                  Unit Value e--__                                         '000- ---- -        -        ---------------
2 yr. Old Animals 3/
Dairy Female                           1500            -              5183           6914           8635           10361          12089
Dairy Male                             1000            -              3455           4610           5757            6908           8059
Beef/Draft Female                      3000            -             10365          13829          17272           20723          24178
Beef/Draft Male                        2000            -              6910           9219          11514           13815          16119
Total                                                    25913           34572          43170           51807          60445
I/  Only benefits outside intensive area have been presented in this table.
Intensive area benefits of AI and "loaned bull" program in intensive
areas appears in Village Herd Projections, Annex 13 , Tables 2-5.
2/  45 cows, 2 inseminations, 50, 75, 100% adjustion rate.
3/  Native Zebu male and female $2000.
April 7, 1975



THtAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village lined P-a(-ti-u  - With Peelet
Year 9              Year 1              Year 2              Yea  3              Yer4                Year 5              Year 6               Year 7              Year 8               Year 9              Year 18
AnnualI  T.tal     A              Tr    A             VT    A             T    A              T    A              T    A               T     A             Y    A               VT    A             T    A               T
IEND COMPOSI.TION
Native Zeha Female                                         6       331/       3           23                  ID 
NaKtive Zebu Male                                          6       16321      3           15                   9                                                                                60
P1or-h-m XF ...ale                                         7       342/       3           37      6           43      3           43                  30                  19                   613                                       1                   13
F1 Brahna  NXMale                                          7       194/       3           22      6           29      3           31                  31                  31                   3                    13                                       13
F2oe-h..elXPFsale                                                             7            7      7           14     ED           24     El           35      8           44       5          49       2           44                  31                   18                   3
Pu Brhea-  N Male                                                             7                   7                  10            6     II            6      9            6       6            6      2            6                    6                   6                    6
P3 NrhmeK  eml                                                                                                                            2            2      3            5      7            12     El           23     13           36      13           49     23           62
P3 NeB- an N                                                                                      _____              _____                2                   3                    7                  113                                      131
104       26          104     26          104     26          184    26           104      24         104      25          104     26          104      26          104     26          104     26           104
Nuffalo Femle                                                      90'/    Il
B'nfale Male                                                       736/    11
8    Value               Value    VI         V Value             Value-    /         Value-    L         Value    4          Value      4         Value    4          Value      4         Value    4          Value
2.0 Native Zebu Female                                    6        12        13        26        13        26        ED        20
2.0N' Ntive Zebu Male                                     6        12         6        12         6         12        9         10
50 FINeahmun.K XFemale                                    7        32                                                 3         ES       13         65       12         66       12         66         6        20
4.0 F, Brahua K. XMale                                    7        26
2.0 P2 Br-hn-  K Pemal                                                                                                                                                                                 7        49        13         91        13        91        13         91
6.DPF2NB-hm-nNMal                                                             7        42         7        42         4        24        Dl         66        9         24        6         36         2         12
9.0 P3B-habma  XFMale                                                                                                                               1                   24        7         56        11        6         13        104       13        184        13        104
Dm6-total                                      26         67       26         86       26         80       26         77        26       147        74       138        25       122        26        179        26       195        26        195       26        195
4.0 OffEala Female                                       11        444                                      44.54                                                        44                                     44                   44                  44        11         44
4.2 Bnifale Male                                         11        49.5                49.5                49.5                49.                  49.5                49.2                49.5                49.5                 49.5                49.2                 49.5
DrusDle  Ptsta                                       190.2               173.2               173.5               170.5                240.5               231.2               242.5               272.5                298.5               209.5                289.5
1u-telity Adjustment 14%)                                 (7.2)               (6.9)               (6.9)               (6.0)               19.6)                (9.3)               (9.8)              (10.9)(1.)1.2(I)
Totl1 Nales                                              173.3               166.6               166.6               163.7               230.1               227.2               233.7                261.6               277.0               277.8                277.0
/majora-      mpin:   58%f -owa bed with b-nna  sme  In yea  1,
109% rhe.e.tr
I al  cattle  ugraded to P1 unly
Cows upgraded Ku F3 aovIleble.
W- iclg rate, 60%.
-Ctow   eIlf in third yea.
2/  21 adults.  6 yealings, 6 calves
3/  12 odn1ts, 3 year.lings, 3 calve-
4/22 admIts, 6 yeaelingn, 6 cles.-
5/11 adults, 4 ye...liegs, 4 calve.
6/  62 adults, 11 2 yea   Ilds, 11 yealings, 11 calves
7/  40 adults, 11 2 year  Id., 11 yearIn~gs, 11 calves
April 7, 1975



6666>01 13
Table 3
01401   0101         66                         -    -I.
0                                         01  0101  010144  -401101
4'                                        01
-4
6-     '0010   0                                          01 010110
010100101-44' 0014'
0010101-4-4001101
0                                                      01     01    01
0101-40-4-66                    0101  0   4
01        0101010--                j      01  0  -
010  0  01 01
01010  01                                        01 01011-4
001  01    01-4-4  01  10
22
0406     0      -4-40101-410
01 0000                       010101    -4
010101-4-4                    01       -4
6-                       01 0101101                66
6-    0110164101      011       2                         .   -  -6   -  02         0
0   01016601         001       01  010101-4          01001  001601        0         0
o   01-40101!   -401         6-  -010101           '004  -4  '01       01         0
0                           ,       660001             0101               06601    '01
O                              '0                       0101             01  01     0
04          01-406-
0   6-  6-          010          001646-620
4066010-4001             '0         '.         0
O   0  0                    0016-00000               0<  0       0
0  01  01  01                   00066200100        0    0   0        66
01  006-000                     6o0                      0."'        0
006666-6601                        010101010101  0 6-6-  6-0  0     '0
66-200000                       6666            -20010010            01
01 06-006000.    0                000666666660  0 06-   01              0.
-40.0             01               066004040.60.006-01
01    0164010101606-0              22016666466660          0o  0        6-
01 466             001                 66001000  0 00  00  4            0
01006600660006-                    00000000  401- 00 0    66
0100006-6-06-0-0                   >660000000100 01001
001016666066066                    --001010010        "0"'
000000  00                  -0                 6-02.'             0
 0040000001-                      00010101010101066                    0
00001-01010101660               01
0101000-00-0-0066               .-6 010101'401 00101    44
0                               -4                                      -I



l.3~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ANE  .
0~~~~~~           ~~~~ 0l  n s 4444
0~~~~~ 1             U14 14  C Zo
V 41               w 
9
0nl W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
C C 000040                              44
0          0                               0N    4
fa ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ 044                    .



THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Resairs
Intensive Area flevelapnient
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6         Year 7          Year 8         Year 9         Year 10         Year 11        Year 12        Year 13         Year 14
PER VILLAGE HERD
Tatal Sales With Peaje-t                          166.6          166.6          163.7          230.1          222.2          235.7           261.6          277.0          277.0          277.0
Less Estra Breeding Charge_ 1/                      -               .8            1.1            1.I                             1             1.1            1.1            1.1             1.1
Less Total Sales Without Project                  147.4          156.0          160.8          267.8          217.4          219.4           225.1          229.0          232.8          255.8
Sob-total                            19.2            9.8            1.8          (36.6)           3.7           15.2            35.4           46.9           43.1           20.1
Closing Value With Prajeat                                                                                                                                                               1252.6
Lees Clesing Vaiue Withaut Project                                                                                                                                                       1224.3
Sab-total                                                                                                                                                                    28.3
TOTAL NET VALUE                           19.2            9.8             1.8         (36.6)            3.7           15.2           35.4           46.9           43.1            48.4
NUMBER OF VILLAGES IN:
Year1   -    40                                   768            392             72          (1464)            148            608           1416           1876           1724           1936
Year 2   -   150                                    -           2880           1470            270          (5490)           555           2280           5310            7035           6465           7260
Year 3   -   I50                                    -              -           2880           1470            270          (5490)            555           2280           5310           7035           6465            7260
Year 4   -   150                                                                  -           2880           1470            270          (5490)            555           2280           5310           7035            6465           7260
Year 5   -   150                                    -              -                             -           2880           1470            270          (5490)            555           2280           5310            7035           6465           7260
Sub-tatal                          768            3272          4422            3156           (722)         (2587)          (969)          4531          16904           23026          26070          20760           13725           7260
DISCOUNTED VALUE TO YEAR
10 OF RECEIPTS IN YEAR:
(12X Rate)   11:                                                                                                                                                                        23280
12:                                                                                                                                                                       16498
13:                                                                                                                                                                        9772
14:                                                                                                                                                                       4617
Sab-tatal                                                                                                                                                                 54167
TOTAL INCREMERTAL BENEFIT                           768           3272           4422           3156           (722)         (2587)          (969)          4531           16904          77193
/ Only 50%  tf iseuinatian  aithaut project aould one cpgradiag sanon;  100% aith project aftar year 1.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
1.  Assumptions
1.        Cost Assumptions:  All costs are based on reported or estimated
market costs at the time of appraisal, adjusted to January 1975 levels.
Increases in family labor requirements would be negligible, since herd size
is not expected to increase with the project.
2.        Price Assumptions:  Observed market prices at the time of appraisal
have been used for meat ($10 per kg), native zebu cattle (U2,000 per animal),
and buffalo (d4,000 for females and $4,500 for males). Present prices for
Brahman cattle are inordinately high, reflecting (i) their shortage, (ii)
their superiority as draft animals, and (iii) their use as a status symbol
among livestock owners. Present purebred bull prices range from $80,000 to
$120,000, more than twice the landed cost of imported bulls of similar qual-
ity, while cows range around $40,000, again about twice the landed cost of
good quality imported cows. Similarly exhorbitant prices prevail for Brahman
cross cattle. In view of these temporary prices which do not reflect long
term meat, draft or breeding value, the following reduced prices have been
estimated:
F1  Brahman  x  female:  $ 5,000
F1     "     "   male :   4,000
F2     i     "  female:    7,000
F2     "     "   male       6,000
F3     "     "  female:    9,000
F3           "   male:      8,000
In the case of an Fl cross female, this price represents approximately a 25%
premium over the present farmgate meat price, assuming a mature weight of 400
kg. The Fl cross male is valued at 100% over native males, reflecting a
size advantage and resultant increased draft capacity, as well as breed value
with the present herd composition. Subsequent generations would have signi-
ficant breed value for the foreseeable future. Under the project an Al
fee structure would be introduced, and evaluation has been based on an
increasing scale of % 50 second year and $100 the third year for each cow
serviced.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
3.        Allocation of Quantified Benefits:  Project benefits which are
readily quantifiable would be the increased value of improved pasture and
improved livestock. For this analysis, these benefits have been divided
into three categories: (i) crossbreeding outside of the intensive devel-
opment area; (ii) pasture improvement outside of the intensive development
area; and (iii) combined pasture improvement and crossbreeding together with
disease control and herd management improvement within the intensive develop-
ment areas. Outside the intensive development areas, technical assistance
in herd management would not be available and it is assumed that:
(i) cross breeding benefits would be realized in the sale of
F1 crosses; and
(ii) pasture improvement benefits would be realized in meat value
of additional liveweight gains, and in additional draft capacity.
Within the intensive development areas, pasture improvement is taken as a
necessary prerequisite for the improved breeding and herd management, which
wQuld result in the marketing of draft and breeding animals of increasing
caliber.
2. Quantified Benefits
4.        Pasture Development Outside Intensive Areas:  During the project
period, about 110,000 rai (18,330 ha) would be broadcast sown with Townsville
stylo. It is estimated that dry matter yields would increase by 200 kg, 300
kg per rai in years 1, 2, and 3 after sowing, respectively. On the basis of
a conversion rate for this higher protein forage of 20 kg D.M: 1 kg live-
weight gain and a meat price (farmgate) of $10/kg, the value of this incre-
mental forage production is estimated, at full development, to be $19.3 mil-
lion (US$975,000) per year. Only 10-20% would realized in meat sales, the
balance in increased draft capacity and value of draft animals.
5.        Cross Breeding Outside Intensive Areas:  During the project period,
artificial inseminations outside the intensive areas would be expected to in-
crease from 8,000 cows per year to 73,000. Based on the estimated ratio of
Holstein Friesian and Brahman inseminations in Annex 13, Table 1 and stated
price assumptions, the market value of F1 crosses at full project development
would be approximately $147.5 million per year (US$7.4 million). 1/
1/   The project would allow an expansion of AI to 80,000 cows per year,
Cash flows have been held constant after year 5, although in fact it
is expected that further expansion will take place, probably at an
accelerated pace.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
6.        Combined Development in Intensive Areas:  At full development,
640 project units (in most cases, villages) would have 600 rai (100 ha)
of improved pasture and an upgraded beef/draft cattle herd based on Al or
loaned bull service. Pasture and technical assistance benefits cannot be
limited to, or prorated for, only improved cattle. Total project benefits
for each unit are therefore expressed as an incremental value of the commu-
nity cattle herd. In estimating benefits, it has been conservatively assumed
that cattle would not be improved beyond F3 cross. Under these assumptions,
the incremental value of annual cattle sales at year 10 would be $ 20,100
(US$1,015) per project unit and the additional value of the closing herd
would be $ 28,300 (US$1,430). 1/
7.        Quantified benefits streams and related costs are presented in
Table 1 of Annex 14.
3. Unquantified Benefits
8.        Vaccine Production and Disease Control:  The benefits of vaccine
production and disease control are reduced mortality and increased produc-
tivity among protected animals. The reporting of disease incidence and
deaths is very incomplete in Thailand. (For example it has been estimated
that only 10% of foot and mouth disease occurrence is reported). Neverthe-
less, reported deaths from heamorrhagic septiceamia alone for example are
almost 3,000 per year. Overall, a production of 10-15% in deaths due to
all diseases for whlich vaccine would be produced is a reasonable expectation
of project results. A significant project impact is expected to be improved
detection, reporting and control measures introduced as a result of the work
of the Disease Control Advisor.
9.         )airy Industry:  The strengthening of DPO management would signi-
ficantly improve that organization's financial performance and enhance its
usefullness as a demonstration center. Training of dairy officers, initially
of the Cooperatives Department, would result in more effective extension as-
sistance to existing dairy operations throughout Thailand. Six hundred cross
bred dairy heifers would be produced by LDD under the project for sale to
private dairy farmers, and about 100,000 cows would receive Holstein
Friesian semen through the AI service during the project period. These
measures would significantly increase the supply of milk cows available for
an expansion of the dairy industry. Financial evaluations of private dairy-
ing, while not involving project investment, would be used by BAAC in its
1/   The genetic composition of village herds varies considerably, but
Brahman semen has been available in limited quantities in the North-
east for about 20 years. It has been assumed that in the average herd,
50% of the cattle are F1 crosses.  This composition is used for pre-
project figures and without project development is assumed to be at
half of the pace to be achieved under the project.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
assessment of a long-term lending program for private milk production, and
the feasibility study/project preparaton to be carried out under the project
could result in financial assistance for a major dairy expansion.
10.       Pasture Improvement with Other Species:  Several of the species
other than stylo to be introduced under the project have proven benefits and
would make an immediate impact on pasture productivity. Foremost among these
is Siratro, which is an excellent legume for mixed pastures with paragrass,
which is the most popular species in improved pastures of the region.
11.       Research:  Research activities under the project would be of an
applied nature, geared to the problems of livestock producers in the region.
Results could be expected to improve recommendations inter alia in the fol-
lowing areas: pasture establishment, species, and management; cross-breeding
programs; calving dates; and supplemental feeding. In addition, research
work would be initiated on buffaloes which presently outnumber cattle in the
region about 7:4, and breeding and management could be expected to signifi-
cantly increase their potential, particularly in milk production and reduced
calving intervals.
4. Distribution of Quantified Benefits
12.       Ownership of the Village lierd:  The typical project unit (in most
cases a village) would have about 90 families 1/. This results in an average
of 1.1 cattle and 1.8 buffalo per family. Field observations confirm that
while virtually all farm families have at least one buffalo, only about 70%
own cattle. Of these, only 30% own 3 or more cattle, and herds larger than
10 are uncommon. While buffalo ownership is not closely related to wealth,
cattle ownership and the size of herd are generally an indication of relative
wealth within the community.
13.       Benefits Within Intensive Areas:  About 58,000 farm families are
expected to benefit directly from the project as a result of pasture improve-
ment and cross breeding within intensive development areas. Of these, about
18,000, wilo presently own only buffaloes, would benefit from more rapid
growth and improved draft capacity of their animals as a result of improved
n,trition. Incremental sales of slaughter cattle would be $105-$210 per
family per year (para 14). Quantified benefits of improved nutrition, cross
breeding and herd management of cattle would accrue to the remaining 40,000.
Based on herd distribution, increases in annual income at full development
would range from $390 per family to $7,800 per family with an average of
1/   Larger villages with 200 families or more would, depending on interest
and land availability, receive more pasture and cross breeding services
under the project.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
$650 1/. This represents an increase over average Northeast farm level in-
comes of 30% based on 1970 income figures or a 25% increase over current
levels assuming that incomes have increased at 10% per year in the interim.
14.       Benefits Outside Intensive Development Areas - Pasture Development:
Most of the pasture development outside of the intensive development areas
would be under similar village conditions. On the basis of the average vil-
lage ratio of 6 rai per family, about 18,000 families would derive some
benefit from the additional dry matter yield of these areas. About 10%-
20% of the benefit would be realized in the sale of slaughter animals,
$105 - $210 per family per year 2/; the balance would be reflected in in-
creased productivity and value of draft animals.
15.       Cross Breeding Program:  Although the average cattle herd is 1.6
head, participants in the AI program would be in more developed areas, and
would probably be among the larger herd owners. If it is assumed that the
average beneficiary had 1.5 cows of breeding age, about 95,000 families would
own cows inseminated under the project at full development. Assuming 60%
weaning rate, 4% subsequent mortality and the sale of F1 cross progeny, each
family would receive an additional gross income of about $1,800 per year 3/.
16.       Summary:  Quantified benefits are expected to accrue to about
171,000 families with the following distribution: 36,000 families, average
$160 per year (6% over present income); 40,000 families, average $650 per
year (25% over present income); and 95,000, $1,800 per year (70% over
present income).
1/   These figures are based on the assumption that without the project,
some development would take place. Average incomes with the project would
increase by about $ 1,900 per year over the value of present sales.
2/   Actual realization once every 2-4 years.
3/   Net of breeding charges and value of alternative nature progeny.



ANNEx 14
THAILAND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Q-antifiable BenefIts and Related Costs
(6 Million)
Year I         Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6          Year 7          Year 8          Year 9         Year 10
INCREtENTAL PROJECT BENEFITS
Intensive Areas: Postoro and
Cros-  Breeding 1/     .8             3.3             4.4            3.2              (.7)          (2.6)           (1.0)            4.5            16.9            77.2
Other Areas: Pasture Deve-orO)aot       2.0             6.0            11.0            L6.3           18.5            19.3            19.3            19.3            19.3            19.3
Crass Breeding-           -               -              25.9            34.6           43.2             51.8           60.4            60.4            60.4            60.4
Total                2.8             9.3           41.3            54.1            61.0            68.5            78.7            84.2            96.6           156.9
INCREMENTAL PROJECT COSTS
Seed Prod-ction                         2.1             2.4             .9              .9              .8
Brooding Stations                       2.9             3.5             1,6             .9              .9              .9             1.0             1.0             1.0             1.1
AI Program                              3.7             7.2            10.2            12.1           14.2            14.5            14.8            15.1            15.4           15.7
Leo- Cost of Semen-                  3.2             6.4             9.6           12.8            16.0            16.0            16.0            16.0            16.0           16.0
Field Developmet Staff                  3.8             3.7             4.0            3.9             4.0             4.1             4.2             4.3             4.4            4.5
Total               15.7            23.2            26.3           30.6            35.9            35.5            36.0            36.4            36.8           37.3
Econromc  rate of retain    680
If bon-fits are reduced by 20% the r-te sould be 44%
1/  Details appear in An-.. 13  Table 2, through 5.
2/  Details appear in Annex 13, Table 1.
3/ Assumed to be i100 wheth-r imported or daroatioally prodaced.
April 7, 1975



IBRD 11534R
1040                                  November 1875
~~4  i,,.  LAOS  ~~~~THAILAND
a:>-  i. -20                     LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  200-
AREA           .
weOF        [MAP[S                                                               *       Forage stations
:THH                                                                     A       Breeding stations
,~~                                         --l9 
r   KHMER                                                               Roads
REPUBLIC                                                -----  Railways
Gulf of
Thailand                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
: -- Changwat (province) boundaries
International boundaries
0   20  40  60  80  100 120 140 160
Kilometers
0     20    40       60     80    100
MALAYSIA                LA                                                    Miles
-18 g      r     ,        h\     I  lENTIANE                                J                             (-
Y   f       s      rP>S ongK~~~~~hai 5--,                    9\
*   yo   <Loe,  ,_/  /Luong    UdonThani            P' Phano .
"  '< L                        L A 0 S
1l ;-~~~-- \                          '{>1                   rahn /I
c ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ )- 4    ''2t's:           >          /   -       
-     r/ \,    Pahohonn I                                    Pao. K
/               5     1  /7&               tNa~~~~~~~Chsi n   1    /
'Tha Ph
=16                                                            k     t aaam   \ 
Bo a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
T Chaiyahumao                     .\
I~~~~                                     KHE   REP1\"("v   \UBLIC \
i t 1 Nak~rhon  
urnT  boundri                    n o t       d
wo7 v>T,asb Kwang \).,_,. _.
-14'          To Chachoengsao                                                                                          14
o! ~~~~~ KH MER R EP U BLI C
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~The boundaries shown on this map do not
imply endorsement or acceptance by the
102         !                                  104       World Bank and its affiiates       106.



