CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMER 1199 T-TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Livestock Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 27, 1976
00


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1976, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided-
(B) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible to
receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term is de-
fined in Resolut-ion No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the
Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
(hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions
set forth in such Resolution; and
(C) The Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above. is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one:
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "DLD" means Department of Livestock Development, a de-
partment of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Coopera-
tives; and
(b) "DPO" means the Dairy Promotion Organization established
pursuant to Royal Decree of Establishment of the Dairy Promotion
Organization of Thailand (B.E. 2514) dated August 31, 1971.


﻿*                           -3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dol-
lars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly no-
tify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time;
provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at any time de-
termine that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient to
pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest payment
date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the Administra-
tor at that interest payment date as specified in paragraph (C) of
the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, upon notifica-
tion by the Administrator of such determination and the amount of
the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest on such principal
amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-
tural and livestock practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose. Parts A to F, G2 and G3 of the Project
shall be carried out through DLD, Part G(1) through DPO and
Part G(4) through the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (Under-Secretary's Office).
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ (i) a Pasture De-
velopment Advisor for about 2 years, (ii) a Pasture Seed Produc-
tion and Processing Advisor for about 6 months, (iii) a Livestock
Research Advisor for about 26 months, (iv) a Disease Control Ad-
visor for about 6 months, (v) a Vaccine Production Advisor for
about 6 months and (vi) a Dairy Training Advisor for about 3
months. The said advisors shall be persons whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower to carry out Part G(4)
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a Regional Proj-
ect Manager responsible to the Director General of DLD, whose qual-
ifications, experience, rank and responsibilities shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Regional Project Manager to
take up residence at or near Tha Phra within three months of the
date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank may agree,
and to maintain such residence until the Project is completed.
(c) The Borrower shall within 3 months after the date of this
Agreement appoint, or cause to be appointed, the Regional Project
Manager as the representative of DLD on the Executive Committee of
the Borrower's Northeast Agricultural Research Centre.
(d) The Borrower shall, until the Project is completed, cause
the Regional Project Manager to (i) prepare annual work plans for
the Project in cooperation with the Senior Pasture Officer and the
Senior Livestock Officer referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agree-
ment and (ii) not later than three months before the start of each
fiscal year of the Project submit said work plans to the Director
General of DLD for his approval.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, within three months after
the date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank may
agree:


﻿-7-
(a) appoint, or cause to be appointed, by DLD and to serve
under DLD (i) Livestock Development Officers and Pasture Develop-
ment Officers at each of the breeding stations referred to in
Part C of the Project to supervise the Project activities of about
sixty Field Development Officers to be appointed by and to serve
under DLD and (ii) a Senior Livestock Officer and a Senior Pasture
Officer who will be responsible to the Regional Project Manager
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and who shall be
assigned responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank including that
of coordinating development and research activities of DLD in past-
ure and animal husbandry; and
(b) cause the Senior Livestock Officer and Senior Pasture
Officer to take up residence, until the Project is completed, at
or near Tha Phra.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall, inter alia, appoint and assign. to the breeding
stations referred to in said Part of the Project not less than
six additional research officers to cover the following fields:
genetics, reproductive physiology, artificial insemination and
semen physiology, pasture seed production and ruminant nutrition.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall make, or cause to be
made, within DPO the following appointments: (i) a Deputy Director,
(ii) a Finance Manager, and (iii) a Sales and Marketing Manager,
all with appropriate experience and qualifications.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all
necessary steps to: (i) establish within DPO by October 1976 or
such other date as the Bank may agree an accounting system satis-
factory to the Bank, and (ii) update all DPO's accounts.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide adequate supporting
staff as may be required for the efficient and proper discharge
of the responsibilities of the officers referred to under Sections
3.03(a), 3.04(a) and 3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the
Borrower shall not sell or permit to be sold, any of DLD's purebred
Brahman stock purchased or produced under the Project, except stock
culled or castrated in the course of sound herd management.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, within one year after the
date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank may agree,
submit to the Bank for its review and comments a report, prepared
by the ad hoc Committee for Aid to Livestock Raisers, appointed
by the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(Circular 301/2517 dated August 15, 1974), concerning the Borrower's
laws, regulations and policies with respect to livestock produc-
tion and marketing, including, inter alia, disease control and age
limits for slaughter cattle, domestic pricing policy and export
quotas.


﻿-9-
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, until the Project is com-
pleted, submit, or cause to be submitted, to the Bank for its
review and comments not later than three months before the start
of each fiscal year comprehensive annual work and development
plans for the breeding stations referred to under Part C of the
Project which will contain details sufficient to show the purpose
and priority of the stations' activities.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall (i) cause its Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives to review annually the
credit requirements of farmers in the areas of intensive develop-
ment, including the pasture improvement program under the Project,
and to prepare annually, on the basis of said review and in con-
sultation with the Director General of DLD, a credit support pro-
gram for farmers; and (ii) cause said program to be forwarded
promptly to the Bank for its information and comments.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, not later than six weeks after the close of
each quarter, quarterly progress reports on the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 12-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DLD and DPO to operate
and maintain all equipment and facilities provided under the Proj-
ect in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank and shall
provide promptly as needed the funds needed for that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall formulate and start imple-
menting, by January 1, 1977, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, and thereafter review annually, a fee structure for the
services provided by the Project under the expanded artificial
insemination program and adjustments to its present fee structure
for the services provided by the Project under the expanded
"loaned bull" program. Such fee structure and adjustments will


﻿- 13 -
permit the recovery of as large a portion of the costs of provi-
ding those services as shall be reasonable having due regard to
the incentives, the capacity to pay and the year of induction into
said programs of livestock owners. Such fee structure and adjust-
ments shall in any event permit not less than one-half of said
costs to be recovered from each recipient by the end of the third
year of each recipient's participation in said programs.


﻿- 14                                       0
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DLD, DPO and the Office of the
Under-Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
to keep separate accounts for their respective Parts of the Proj-
ect which will clearly show how the proceeds of the Loan are being
used in carrying out the said Parts of the Project.
(c) The records maintained by the Office of the Under-
Secretary shall inter alia include summaries of DLD and DPO
Project accounts.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) of DLD and DPO for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors accentable to the
Bank; (ii) cause DLD and DPO to furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified conies of their financial


﻿-15 -
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) cause DLD and DPO
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning their
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date May 27, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok, Thailand
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By Is/ Upadit Pachariyangkun
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Machinery, equip-          3,200,000
ment, vehicles,
cattle, frozen
semen and pasture
seed:
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported and                             65%
procured
locally
(c) manufactured                             100% (ex-factory
locally                                 cost)
(2) Building construc-           150,000          25%
tion
(3) Consulting services          350,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Pasture Research and         100,000          100%
Study Tours


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Unallocated                1,200,000
TOTAL      5,000,000


﻿-21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in' compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made on account
of expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $25,000, in respect of
building construction and technical assistance under Categories
(2) and (3), respectively, of paragraph 1 above.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,


﻿- 22 -
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expend-
itures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the Borrower's cattle
production and dairy farming and consists of the following:
Pasture development
Part A    The establishment of Townsville stylo legume on about
83,000 hectares of fallow and permanent grazing lands,
primarily in the Northeast region, to improve their
yield and nutritive value.
Forage seed production
Part B    (1) The development in the Northeast region of a total
area of about 335 hectares on the Chieng Yuen, Huoi
Luong and Pak Chong Forage Stations for the produc-
tion of annual stylo seed and of an area of about
150 hectares primarily for seed production and test-
ing of other pasture species.
(2) The establishment of a seed harvesting and storage
unit at the Tha Phra Livestock Station.
Development of breeding stations
Part C    The expansion of research and production facilities and
of staffing at the Tha Phra, Udon Thani, Chaiyaphum,


﻿- 24 -
Maha Sarakham, Sakon Nakhorn, Ubon Ratcharthani and
Lamphya Klang breeding stations and of staffing at the
Surin breeding station.
Expansion of cattle production
Part D    (1) The expansion of DLD's "Loaned Bull" program by
about 455 bulls to strengthen the selective breed-
ing program operated by DLD.
(2) The expansion of DLD's artificial insemination pro-
gram to provide for the servicing of about 80,000
cows annually at full development.
Part E    The import of (i) about 600 cows and 300 bulls of the
Brahman breed and (ii) about 144,000 doses of Brahman
and Holstein-Friesian semen, both to support the expanded
research and production programs of the breeding stations
and to meet the short term requirements of the programs
under Part D of the Project.
Disease control
Part F    The expansion of DLD's production of vaccines against
blackquarter, Brucella abortus strain, Haemorrhagic
septicaemia and fowl cholera.


﻿*                                      -25 -
Training, research and study
Part G    (1) The provision of training Facilities for, and the
improvement of the management of, DPO to enable it
to undertake training of staff of the Borrower's
agencies or departments engaged in dairy development,
priority being given to staff of the Cooperatives
Promotion Department at the initial stage.
(2) Study tours for DLD staff engaged in the Project to
view work in related fields.
(3) The carrying out of research in pasture developments.
(4) The carrying out of a dairy industry development
study.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 26-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                   90,000
July 15, 1983                                      90,000
January 15, 1984                                   90,000
July 15, 1984                                      95,000
January 15, 1985                                  100,000
July 15, 1985                                     100,000
January 15, 1986                                  100,000
July 15, 1986                                     105,000
January 15, 1987                                  105,000
July 15, 1987                                     110,000
January 15, 1988                                  110,000
July 15, 1988                                     110,000
January 15, 1989                                  115,000
July 15, 1989                                     115,000
January 15, 1990                                  120,000
July 15, 1990                                     125,000
January 15, 1991                                  125,000
July 15, 1991                                     130,000
January 15, 1992                                  130,000
July 15, 1992                                     135,000
January 15, 1993                                  135,000
July 15, 1993                                     140,000
January 15, 1994                                  145,000
July 15, 1994                                     145,000
January 15, 1995                                  150,000
July 15, 1995                                     155,000
January 15, 1996                                  155,000
July 15, 1996                                     160,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-27-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1997                                   165,000
July 15, 1997                                      170,000
January 15, 1998                                   170,000
July 15, 1998                                      175,000
January 15, 1999                                   180,000
July 15, 1999                                      185,000
January 15, 2000                                   185,000
July 15, 2000                                      190,000
January 15, 2001                                   195,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
01


﻿- 28                                    0
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years but
not more than twenty-one years
before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years but
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, goods, works and ser-
vices shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
2.   (a) Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding after local advertising and in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Contracts for cattle and frozen semen shall be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding after bids have been invited
from at least three countries free of foot and mouth disease.
(c) Contracts for machinery, equipment, vehicles and pasture
seeds not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 may be let by prudent
shopping locally, provided that the aggregate expenditure for items
so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $100,000 to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 30 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use
or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thai-
land if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
0


﻿-31-
added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A af-
ter adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
01


﻿- 32 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrow-
er shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿-33 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


