Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17767
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
SIMAP / HEALTH, NUTRITION, WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2358-GUA)
April 30, 1998
Sector Management Unit
Human Development
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit       Guyanese Dollar (GUY$)
US$1.00      =     GUY$140
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
DPT                Diptheria Tetanus Pertusis
IDA                International Development Association
IDB                Interamerican Development Bank
GAHEF              Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education, Environment and
Food Policy
GOG                Govenment of Guyana
GUYWA              Guyana Water Authority
LAC                Latin American and Caribbean Region
LBW                Low Birth Weight
LS                 Local Shopping
LSMS               Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS                Management Information System
MOH                Ministry of Health
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
OPV                Oral Polio Vaccine
RA                 Regional Administration (Government)
SiMAP              Social Impact Amelioration Program
TT                 Tetanus Toxoyd
UNDP               United Nations Developent Programme
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Contry Sector Leader Jamil Salmi
Task Manager      Charles Szymanski



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..........................................................                                                                 i
EVALUATION  SlUMMARY ............................................................ i
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................   1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .....................................................    1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND FACTORS
AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................................                                               2
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ...........................................................                                                 3
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ..........................................................                                       3
SUBPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPONENT ......................................   4
LSMS AND SECTOR STUDIES ..........................................................                                         7
PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ...................                                   .......................................            7
ASSOCIATION PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                                               9
BORROWER  PERFORMANCE  .....................                                      .....................................           9
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................................                                               10
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................................                                        10
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................                                                  11
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summay of Assessments ............................                           ..........................        13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................................                             14
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................................                                       15
Table 4: IDA  Credit I5isbursements ......................................                        .................      15
Table 5: Key Indicatorsfor Project Implementation ......................                            ..................   16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................                           17
Table  7:  Studies Included in Project                         .......................................................   18
Table 8A: Project Costs .......................................................                                           19
Table 8B: Project Financing .......................................................                                      20
Table 8C:  Subproject Financing  by  Type .......................................................                        21
Table 8D: BenificiariesSummary .......................................................                                   22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .....................................................                               24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... ....                            26
Table I1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............                                   ..............  27
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .....................................................                            28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................                               29
APPENDICES...................................................................................................
A. BORROWER  CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE  ICR  .................................................
B . MAP ...................................................................................................................
B. .MAP.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
SIMAP/ HEALTH, NUTRITION, WATER AND SANITATION
PROJECT (CREDIT 2358 GUA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the SIMAP/ Health,
Nutrition and Water and Sanitation Project, for which Credit 2358-GUA in the amount of
SDR 7.5 million (at appraisal US$10.3 million equivalent) was approved on August 7,
1992 and made effective on January 13, 1993. The Credit was closed on September 30,
1997 after an extension of 15 months. As of September 30, 1997 the value of the loan
was equivalent to about SDR 7,500,000 of which SDR 7,141,875.02 had been disbursed.
SDR 358,124.98 was canceled on December 30, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Szymanski, Human Development Group of the
Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office, with extensive input from Nuria Homedes,
External Health Consultant, and with the assistance of Sonia Rodriguez-Crane, Task
Assistant. The draft ICR was reviewed by Jamil Salmi, Country Sector Leader and Xavier
Coll, Lead Specialist and Acting Director-LCSHD. The Borrower prepared a separate
report which is included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based, inter alia. on the Bank's final supervision /
completion mission, which took place June 29, 1997; the Credit Agreement and
Amendments; supervision reports; the mid-term review; correspondence between the
Association and the Borrower; interviews with Government officials, donor agencies and
consultants; and SIvLAP reports. Preparation of the ICR was discussed with SIMAP
during the completion mission.



ii
SIMAP/ HEALTH, NUTRITION. WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2358 GUA)
GUYANA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i. This was the first IDA-assisted social sector project in Guyana. It was approved by
the Board on April 30, 1992, signed on August 7, 1992, and declared effective on
January 13, 1993. At the time of appraisal, total project costs were estimated at
US$11.7 million equivalent, of which US$10.3 million was financed by the IDA credit,
with the balance financed by Government, beneficiaries and the IDB. This project
required 4 years and 9 months for completion, which is slightly longer than the
originally anticipated 4 years. This duration includes two extensions totaling 15
months. The Credit was closed on September 30, 1997. The final disbursement was
effected in December, 1997 -- 3 months after Credit closing, due to delays
encountered in making final payments to contractors.
Project Objectives
ii. Objectives: The main objective of the project was to assist the GOG in cushioning the
social costs of the adjustment process through improving the health and nutrition
status of the poorest segments of the population, in particular, pregnant and lactating
women and children under five. This objective was to be pursued by: (a) financing of
food supplementation programs, the rehabilitation and equipping of health centers and
day-care centers, and the rehabilitation of water supply, sanitation and storm water
drainage structures; and (b) assisting the GOG in the formulation of sustainable
policies and programs in the social sector over the medium term.
iii. Content: In order to attain these objectives, the project included four basic
components: (a) an institutional development component (16 percent of project costs)
including financing for the development of administrative, management and
operational procedures of the SIMAP Agency and for technical assistance,
administrative costs and vehicles; (b) a sub-project implementation component (78.5
percent of project costs) financing feeding programs and projects in the areas of
health, nutrition, day-care, and water and sanitation; (c) a Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) (2.5 percent of project costs); and (d) the development
of a policy framework in the health sector (3 percent of project costs). On January
28, 1993, Part D of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended to include technical assistance for social sector projects. This first
amendment facilitated the preparation of the first IDA-financed Education Project. On
August 22, 1995, a second amendment was approved to eliminate the requirement for



iii
a phase-out plan and the related supplementary letter from the DCA due to the
continuous influx of multilateral and bilateral investments into the SIMAP Agency.
The second amendment also eliminated technical assistance to the Ministry of Health
(Part D of Schedule 2 of the DCA) for the development of medium-term policies and
strategies, since grant funding became available to finance this activity.
iv. Achievements: As indicated in Table I of the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome
of the project was rated satisfactory in every major area.
Implementation Experience and Results
v. The SIMAP Project has successfully assisted the Government of Guyana in cushioning
the social costs of the adjustment process, helped to improve health and nutrition
indicators over the short term, and was effective in attracting and efficiently channeling
domestic and foreign financing for the social sector. The rehabilitation and equipment
of health and day-care centers, and the rehabilitation of water supply, drainage and
basic sanitation systems has significantly improved the quality of life for many
Guyanese. SIMAP has also contributed, directly or through the implementation of
subprojects, to the strengthening of GUYWA, the Ministry of Education, the Bureau
of Statistics, the Ministry of Health, and the municipalities' day-care center
administrators. The SIMAP Project was less successful, however, in promoting
sustainable policies in the health sector over the medium term.
vi. SIMAP is a pioneer in Guyana in targeting and implementing social projects for the
poorest segments of the population. Most of the difficulties experienced in the timely
implementation of the Project were factors beyond SIMAP's direct control and
included: (i) the absence of sector policies in nutrition, health, water supply and basic
sanitation; (ii) the absence of standards for water supply projects; (iii) the limited
capacity of the local consulting and construction sectors; (iv) the difficulties in
procuring offshore construction materials; and (v) the weaknesses of the agencies and
ministries with which SlMAP had to coordinate. Factors negatively affecting the
project over which SIMAP had some control included the initial limited managerial
capacity to plan and administer contracts, and the high personnel turnover due to
SIMAP's inability to maintain competitive salaries, the GOG's political priorities, and
migration.
vii. Subproject Implementation Component: From 1992 to 1997, the Credit helped
finance a total of 117 infrastructure projects, including the construction/rehabilitation
of 22 water systems, 13 storm water drainage projects, 34 sanitation projects, 8 day-
care centers, and 40 health centers. It also financed nutrition programs and equipment
in 57 health centers and 11 day-care centers. The average cost of each subproject
was higher than estimated at appraisal. Therefore, the Project was unable to meet the
target number of subprojects established in the SAR. The total cost of all subprojects
was US$9,021,341. Table 8C shows the distribution of subprojects by type of



iv
investment.
viii. Evaluations of SIMAP generally found the infrastructure subprojects to be well built
and maintained. The nutrition subprojects were generally well implemented and there
was no evidence of food leakage to ineligible recipients. The impact evaluation of the
health center-nutrition subprojects documented that: (a) children with the greatest
weight deficit at the beginning of the nutritional intervention showed the greatest
response to supplemental feeding; (b) clinic attendance increased substantially; (c)
immunization rates for DPT and OPV increased slightly (by about 6 percent) during
the distribution period; (d) the increased clinic attendance to antenatal clinics was not
associated with a decline in low birth weight (LBW) or better breastfeeding practices;
and (e) the per household income transfer value of the food rations ranged between 12
and 26 percent of the minimum wage.
ix. Institutional Development Component: The Project provided financing for the
development of administrative, management and operational procedures of the SIMAP
Agency and for technical assistance, administrative costs and vehicles. All technical
assistance and institutional strengthening activities were coordinated closely with the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB). SIMAP's capacity to respond quickly to
community needs significantly increased throughout the life of the Project. However,
the high degree of personnel attrition and a lack of consistency in staffing somewhat
diminished the impact of the institutional development component on SIMAP's
capacity to implement subprojects.
x. The LSMS Component: The Living Standards Measurement Survey was conducted
during the first year of the Project in conjunction with the UNDP and the Guyanese
Bureau of Statistics. The LSMS yielded important information and it is being used by
the GOG in social sector planning and by the IDB in the elaboration of a poverty map.
xi. The Health Sector Policy Development Component: While the crux of this component
was eliminated by the second amendment to the DCA, three studies were conducted
which proved instrumental in opening channels of communication between IDA and
the Ministry of Education, and facilitated the definition of the first IDA-financed
education project.
xii. SIMAP's sustainability. SvIMAP was created in July, 1988 by the Government as an
emergency stop-gap mechanism which would eventually be phased out. In 1989,
SIMAP underwent a shift from its focus of channeling emergency income supplements
to vulnerable groups to one of greater involvement in the financing of small-scale
projects to assure essential government investments in infrastructure and social
services during a period of diminishing Government resources. However, the
Guyanese Government and several multilateral and bilateral agencies have since
recognized the progress made by SIMAP with respect to project management,
regional government involvement, and subproject implementation, and the
Government has decided to maintain the Agency for at least several additional years.



v
Whether or not SIMAP should become a permanent part of the GOG's institutional
framework will need to be analyzed in light of the Government's future strategy for
social investment, its ability to finance or obtain financing for SIMAP operations, and
further integration of SIMAP into the country's policy framework. Regardless of the
future of SIMAP, and as long as the national and regional governments retain
responsibility for operating costs and maintenance, the central and regional authorities
will have to provide guidance with respect to new social investments.
xiii. Subproject sustainability. The prospects for the long-term sustainability of health
centers, day care centers, and water supply projects are encouraging. The water
supply projects are especially promising due to the fact that the Guyana Water
Authority (GUYWA) has been strengthened and is taking full responsibility for the
maintenance of the water systems. Lack of maintenance of the storm water drainage
projects was identified as the only major problem mitigating against sustainability.
These projects tended to be the least likely to be maintained. Multiple attempts have
been made by SlMAP to ensure the maintenance of the drainage systems by the local
governments or the community of users but the completion mission noted that these
efforts have been of little avail.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
x. Some of the key findings and lessons learned from SIMAP's experience may be
summarized as follows:
*  coordination among all donors financing projects through SIMAP (particularly
IDB and the EU) was crucial for the success attained by the Project;
* SIMAP community subprojects (with the exception of latrines) were not
demand driven. Rather, communities were pre-selected and subprojects
defined based on an explicit policy of poverty targeting and need. Although it
is well established that community participation in all stages of the subproject
cycle generally increases the prospects for sustainability, SIMAP's
preselection method proved effective given the limiting cultural and political
conditions prevailing in the country during the first half of the 1990s;
*  while the level of community participation in project implementation was
minimal at inception, it increased over time as experience was gained in the
Project's management of the subproject cycle and as more emphasis was
placed upon beneficiary communities' commitment to training and
maintenance;
*  to enhance future sustainability, greater emphasis should be placed on ensuring
the active involvement of regional governments and communities in all stages
of the project cycle--from identification through completion;
*  agencies such as SIMAP need to offer salaries competitive with those of the
private sector in order to attract and retain competent staff. It is IDA's view
that insufficient GOG attention to this provision (stipulated in the Project
Agreement) adversely affected SlMAP's performance;



vi
*  project execution was hampered by a lack of adequate training and experience
within SIMAP in the preparation and administration of contracts, and in the
management of project and financial database systems;
*  the sustainability of health center nutrition projects would likely have been
enhanced if more resources had been invested in promoting greater
involvement by health center personnel, if the distribution of food had been
complemented with nutrition education activities and materials, and if more
time had been devoted to the detection and treatment of morbidity episodes;
*  the limited capacity of the local consulting and construction contractors and
the lack of familiarity with water supply projects limited the speed with which
these subprojects could be implemented and, in some cases, the quality as well,
particularly in the initial stages of the project.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
SIMAP/ HEALTH, NUTRITION, WATER AND SANITATION
PROJECT (CREDIT 2358 GUA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives and Description
1. Project Objectives: The main objective of the project was to assist the GOG in
cushioning the social costs of the adjustment process through improving the health and
nutrition status of the poorest segments of the population, in particular, pregnant and
lactating women and children under five. This objective was to be pursued by: (a)
financing of food supplementation programs, the rehabilitation and equipping of health
centers and day-care centers, and the rehabilitation of water supply, sanitation and
storm water drainage structures; and (b) assisting the GOG in the formulation of
sustainable policies and programs in the social sector over the medium term.
2. Project components: In order to attain these objectives, the project included four
basic components: (a) an institutional development component (16 percent of total
costs) to complement the efforts of the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and
the Government of Guyana (GOG) to develop the administrative, management and
operational procedures for the SIMAP Agency; (b) a subproject implementation
component (78.5 percent of total costs) to address the basic health, nutrition, and
water and sanitation needs of the groups most affected by the country's economic
decline, particularly pregnant and lactating women and children under five years of
age. Financing under this component included the rehabilitation and equipment of
day-care and health care centers, the distribution of food supplements to pregnant and
lactating mothers, and to children under five, and the rehabilitation and construction of
water supply, storm water drainage, and basic sanitation systems; (c ) a Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) component (2.5 percent of total costs) to be
implemented in conjunction with an income and expenditure survey financed by the
UNDP; and (d) the development of a health sector policy framework (3 percent of
total costs) to assist the government in defining medium-term policies and strategies
for the health and nutrition sectors. On January 28, 1993, Part D of Schedule 2 of the
Development Credit Agreement was amended to include technical assistance for social
sector projects. This first amendment facilitated the preparation of the First IDA-
financed Education Project. On August 22, 1995, a second amendment was approved
to eliminate the requirement for a phase-out plan and related supplementary letter from
the DCA due to the continuous influx of multilateral and bilateral investments in the
SIMAP Agency. The second amendment also eliminated technical assistance to the



2
Ministry of Health (Part D of Schedule 2 of the DCA) for the development of
medium-term policies and strategies, since grant funding became available to finance
this activity.
3. Linkage with Sector Strategies: The SIMAP Project was IDA's first social sector
project in Guyana, and complemented IDA's Technical Assistance Project (SDR 2.3
million) and operations in the bauxite and sugar sectors. IDA's country assistance
strategy included support for on-going economic recovery efforts, including efforts to
mitigate the adverse social impacts of the adjustment process. Consistent with this
strategy, the SIMAP Project attempted to arrest the spread of poverty and the further
deterioration of physical facilities, while investing in human capital through targeted
interventions aimed at improving the health and nutrition status of the poor. The
Project also aimed at increasing the Government's capacity to develop policies and
deliver quality health and nutrition services over the medium-term.
Achievement of Project Objectives and Factors Affecting Implementation
4. As indicated in Table 1 of the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the project
was rated satisfactory in every major area. SIMAP successfully assisted the
Government of Guyana in cushioning the social costs of the adjustment process,
helped to improve health and nutrition indicators over the short term, and was very
effective in attracting and efficiently channeling domestic and foreign financing for the
social sector. The rehabilitation and equipment of health and day-care centers, and the
rehabilitation of water supply, drainage and basic sanitation systems significantly
improved the quality of life for many Guyanese. SIMAP also contributed, directly or
through the implementation of subprojects, to the strengthening of GUYWA, the
Ministry of Education, the Bureau of Statistics, the Ministry of Health, and the
municipalities' day-care center administrators. The SIMAP Project was less
successful, however, in promoting sustainable policies in the health sector over the
medium term.
5. The number of subprojects executed was somewhat lower than the target numbers
established in the SAR. Deviations from early estimates are the result of higher than
expected average costs for subprojects and should not be interpreted as a performance
failure to meet targets. However, the Project's ability to use NGOs, community
groups and local government strategies was limited and the extent to which the project
has been able to build sustainable capacity within the SIMAP Agency is mixed. When
the SIMAP Project was designed there were very few NGOs operating in the country,
and regional and local governments had very limited managerial capacity and ability to
direct investments within their areas of influence. It was not until the last trimester of
1994 that the GOG held municipal elections, in an attempt to encourage community
participation and increase Government accountability to local communities. In
response to this national policy, SIMAP opened several regional offices and
strengthened its community development activities. However, promoting community
participation and empowering the community to determine its own future is a lengthy



3
and local governments grew over the years but was severely limited by the lack of
tradition and the limited local expertise in this area. The Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) identified this gap and offered technical assistance to empower
community leaders to manage development projects.
6. SIMAP proved to be a vital channel for the investment of government and
international resources in basic infrastructure and basic health and nutrition. SIMAP
was established partly due to the ministries' weaknesses in the area of social
investment. Early coordination efforts with relevant ministries were hampered by
those weaknesses. As line ministries and semi-autonomous agencies have
strengthened, coordination between SlMAP, the Ministry of Health and GUYWA has
also improved.
Implementation Record
Institutional Development:
7. The IDA credit and ongoing IDB financing have supported the recurrent
administrative expenses of SIMAP and have financed a considerable number of man-
months of technical assistance with the intention of helping SIMAP evolve into a
technically and managerially qualified semi-autonomous government institution. The
studies financed with the IDA Credit included: (i) the establishment of financial and
administrative procedures to be used during Project implementation; (ii) the definition
of the operational procedures to guide the implementation of the nutrition program
and the design of the impact evaluation; (iii) revision of SIMAP's organizational
structure and elaboration ofjob descriptions; (iv) the creation of a unit cost database;
and (v) the execution of the impact evaluation of the nutrition projects. The IDB
financed the following technical assistance: (i) evaluation of identification, appraisal
and approval of nutrition projects; (ii) evaluation of the MIS; (iii) assessment of the
environmental impact of SIMAP's subprojects; and (iv) the evaluation of the
Administrative Services Department.
8. SIMAP's institutional capacity was significantly strengthened during the first two
years of the Project. The level of coordination and collaboration reached between the
two major donors, IDB and IDA was crucial to this success. The management
information system (MIS) was slow to be developed and was not really completed
until late 1995. The MIS was initially perceived among SIMAP staff only as a
financial tool, and at the time of the completion mission, it was still being integrated
into the daily work of managers and project officers. During the last two years, the
managerial capacity of SIMAP was hampered by tumover in key personnel positions,
including the planning and operations manager and some of the Agency's most
qualified engineers.



4
Subproject Implementation Component:
9. This was the core component of the project which financed food supplementation
programs in health centers and day care centers, as well as the rehabilitation and
equipping of those facilities and the rehabilitation of small-scale water supply,
sanitation and storm water drainage infrastructure throughout the country.
10. Food Supplementation Programs: The food supplementation (nutrition) projects were
implemented via 57 health centers and 11 day care centers. The health center nutrition
projects were designed to improve the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating
women, and children under 5 years of age through two different mechanisms: (i)
making food available; and (ii) diagnosing and treating underlying health problems that
may interfere with appropriate growth and development of children, including prenatal
growth. In addition, 57 health centers received equipment and pharmaceuticals. By
ensuring a continual provision of supplies, it was expected that health workers would
offer services of better quality and, in turn, mothers would be more satisfied with the
care received. This increased level of satisfaction was expected to result in a greater
sustained level of clinic utilization.
11. The health centers which benefited from SIMAP financing were pre-selected during
project preparation based on 1992 health-center malnutrition rates,' though
inaccessible hinterland areas were excluded. Due to lack of sufficient financing under
the IDA-credit, some of the originally selected health center projects were executed
with IDB-financing. All pregnant and lactating mothers, all children between 6 and 24
months of age, and all malnourished children under five attending the selected clinics
were eligible to receive monthly food rations of 2 Kg of powered milk and 2 Kg of
grade B rice. (Children between 6 and 24 months only received milk). The provision
of food rations lasted for a period of 12 months. (The original duration of the
program was 24 months, but due to price increases it was reduced to 12). There was
no evidence of food leakage to ineligible persons nor was there any evidence of food
being sold. Both food commodities--rice and milk--were well accepted by all
communities. However, residents in rice producing areas would have preferred a
product other than rice, (wheat flour, for example). Twenty-nine health centers
experienced minor discontinuity in the provision of milk and thirty-one in the provision
of rice. These problems became more prevalent during the later part of the
distribution and were associated with SlMAP's Board of Directors changing the
procurement procedures established in the DCA from local shopping to national
bidding. It is notable that, based on numerous informal interviews, many users
preferred the food supplement to receiving the equivalent in cash.
Clinic malnutrition rates admittedly are not the best selection criteria. However, at the time, this
measure was considered the only feasible alternative given that the results of the LSMS were
received late and the results of the survey conducted by GAHEF failed to provide data sufficient to
improve the targeting procedure.



5
12. The evaluation of the health center nutrition programs documented the following:
(i) there was a large increase in clinic attendance and the quality of care provided was
maintained. While the level of clinic utilization decreased in the post-distribution
period, it remained higher than before the program started; (ii) children with the
greatest weight deficit at the beginning of the nutritional intervention showed the
greatest response to supplemental feeding but the effect was not sustained during the
post-distribution period; (iii) the distribution of food rations was not associated with
reduced child morbidity; (iv) health center visits, antenatal clinic attendance, the
proportion of women registered before the 20"' week of pregnancy, and TT, DPT and
OPV immunization rates all increased during the distribution period. Though each
dropped thereafter, all remained higher in the post-distribution period than before the
program started; (v) the distribution of milk rations to lactating women appeared to
have little or no detrimental effect on breast-feeding practices; (vi) the increased
attendance at antenatal clinics was not associated with improved breast-feeding
practices; (vii) there was no decline in the incidence of LBW (though it is possible that
any decline in LBW attributable to the food rations was offset by the increased
attendance of high-risk mothers); (viii) the per household income transfer value of the
food rations varied over time and with the number of eligible individuals but it
generally ranged between 12 and 26 percent of the minimum wage; (ix) the quality of
the health services provided during the distribution period did not suffer significantly
as a result of the additional time required for food distribution; and (x) program
management costs represented 12.4 percent of the total program costs.
13. It should be noted that full collaboration from the MOH for this component was
difficult to obtain because: (i) MOH administrators perceived the project as adding
significant additional tasks, both clinical and bureaucratic, to its personnel's workload;
(ii) personnel from the MOH had limited time, training and equipment to appropriately
perform the additional tasks and maintain the accompanying records; and (iii)
communication between SIMAP and MOH was not as fluid as would have been
desired.
14. In addition, SIMAP financed a food supplementation program for a period of four
years for all children attending the municipally-owned day care centers in Georgetown
and Linden (a total of 11), along with technical assistance for the improvement of
existing menus and the preparation of menus for children with special needs. Most
project beneficiaries were sons and daughters of public servants and, while not
considered among the poorest of the poor, they were among the most affected by the
structural adjustment program. The day-care center nutrition programs were generally
well implemented and will likely be maintained thanks to continuing support provided
by the municipalities, employees and parents. The successes achieved by SIMAP are
likely to be sustained because: (i) the projects were fully integrated within the day-
care centers' ordinary activities; (ii) day-care center employees received training in
nutrition education, and (iii) day-care centers generally have a low personnel turnover.



6
15. Health Care Center Infrastructure Projects. Forty health care centers were
rehabilitated. In general these projects were of good quality.2 The local consulting
and construction industry knew the project requirements and were capable of
performing satisfactory work. A potential safety problem still exists at some of the
sites where electrical connections were done by the Guyana Electric Company.
16. Day Care Center Infrastructure Projects. SIMAP financed the rehabilitation and 8
municipally-owned day care centers and the equipment of 12 day care centers in
Georgetown and Linden and constructed a new one in Bartica. The quality of the
rehabilitation and construction of the Day Care Centers was good.
17. Water Supply. There were 22 projects completed in this sub-project category. All
project sites were identified and selected during project preparation. Although these
projects started out slowly due to numerous problems experienced with system design,
lack of appropriate specifications, lack of direction from GUYWA, delays in offshore
procurement of materials, and inexperienced consultants and contractors, they actually
proved to be some of the best investments funded with this IDA credit in terms of
quality, sustainability and need fulfillment. Residents of the communities which have
been beneficiaries of the SIMAP funded water supply projects are getting a supply of
water for the first time in many years and, in some cases, for the first time ever. When
the SIMAP project was conceived, GUYWA did not have the institutional capacity to
offer guidance in the planning and design of water supply sub-projects. SIMAP
wisely delayed the implementation of these projects until GUYWA, through another
IDA-financed project, defined the national specifications and standards for water
systems. This development was key for ensuring the quality and sustainability of the
water supply projects. The quality of the projects and the prospects for their
sustainability through GUYWA are very encouraging.
18. Storm Water Draina e. There were 13 projects completed in this sub-project
category. These projects were selected during project preparation and were delayed in
their implementation due to the need to re-design the projects. In addition, shortages
of cement and necessary materials during the later part of 1995 and 1996 further
delayed the completion of the drainage projects. The quality of the drainage
subprojects was good but at the time of the completion mission, it was clear that many
were not being maintained properly and were clogging rapidly, thus jeopardizing
SIMAP's initial investment. These projects are now under the surveillance of the
Regional Administrations (RA), which had agreed with SIMAP during project
preparation on the projects to be rehabilitated. SIMAP has reminded the RAs of their
obligation to maintain the drainage systems. However, the RAs do not have the
funding to comply with this requirement. It is clear that the benefits of this these
subprojects will be short-lived unless the communities clean and maintain the drains
2The quality of infrastructure subprojects was continually monitored by a consultant engineer who
regularly accompanied IDA supervision missions and the completion mission.



7
through self-help strategies or tax-incentives.
19. Basic Sanitation Systems (Latrines). These were the only demand-driven projects
administered by SIMAP with IDA-financing. There were 34 subprojects completed
under this category (with an average of 3 units each), most of them adjunct to existing
schools. The quality of the projects completed was generally good. These projects
were simple and quick to design and install, and they have made a substantial
improvement in sanitary conditions at the beneficiary institutions.
LSMS and Sector Studies:
20. The LSMS and the education policy studies have contributed significantly to the
medium and long-term development of Guyana. The data emanating from the LSMS
have been used extensively and the poverty map will guide all future social sector
investments. The education sector studies provided crucial information for the
definition of the first IDA financed education project in Guyana. The fact that the
Ministry of Health managed to secure grant funds for the definition of the health and
nutrition strategy suggests that these investments helped leverage donor interest in the
development of the country, (though these funds were later withdrawn due to the fact
they were not being utilized). This unanticipated outside support allowed SIMAP to
reallocate the funds remaining from the policy development component to the
construction of water and basic sanitation subprojects.
Project Sustainability
21. SIMAP's sustainability. S1MAP has managed to secure funds from the Guyanese
Government and from several bilateral and multilateral organizations. Whether or not
SIMAP should become a permanent part of the institutional framework must be
analyzed in light of the GOG's future strategy for social investment, its ability to
finance or obtain financing for SIMAP operations, and the integration of SLMAP into
the sector policy frameworks. In the event that SIMAP continues to invest heavily in
the social sectors, it will have to coordinate its investments with the central, regional
and local administrations to ensure that national norms are adhered to, that the works
are maintained, and that project implementation procedures are defined in consultation
with those who will have to execute and sustain the projects/programs initiated by
SIMAP. What has attracted multilateral and bilateral investments to date are (i)
SIMAP's independence from many standard bureaucratic government requirements;
(ii) the fact that SIMAP's employees were highly qualified and, at least initially,
received compensation packages which were generally competitive with the private
sector; and (iii) SlMAP's capacity to efficiently and rapidly respond to the needs of the
different communities with a menu of different types of subprojects.
22. Subproject sustainability. The prospects for the sustainability of most infrastructure
subprojects are good. The maintenace of water supply projects is guaranteed by
GUYWA and the maintenance of the sanitation blocks is the responsibility of the



8
different sponsoring agencies. The maintenace of the stormwater drainage projects
falls under the responsibility of the Regional Administrations (RAs). However, the
RAs have demonstrated an inability to fulfill their commitment due to the scarcity of
funds allocated for this purpose. Unless the RAs manage to motivate the
neighborhood democratic councils and enlist their cooperation in the maintenace of the
drains, these projects will not be maintained. The maintenace of the health centers is a
responsibility of the regional administrations and the maintenace of the day care
centers fall under the responsibility of the municipalities. The activities in the day-care
centers are likely to be maintained. Though SIMAP funding for the midday meal
program has come to a close, the municipalities, private industry and the World Food
Program are now supporting this program. The sustainability of the educational
activities conducted in day care centers is expected to be higher than in health care
centers due to lower personnel turnover and the involvement of municipal
administrators and technical personnel. The provision of pharmaceuticals to health
care centers will depend upon the MOH's ability to secure funds and foreign
investment. Finally, the sustainability of the nutrition program depends upon the
MOH's capacity to elaborate and implement an effective nutrition policy and a
corresponding operational plan. It is worth mentioning that the National Policy on
Breast-feeding practices has already been approved by the Cabinet and represents a
cornerstone of a comprehensive national nutrition policy.
23. A change in the government administrations between project approval and project
effectiveness slowed project start-up and helps explain some of the coordination
difficulties experienced with the sectional ministries, particularly the Ministry of
Health. Given the characteristics of the health center nutrition projects it was very
important to instill a sense of project ownership among health center personnel. This
process had received a lot of attention during Project preparation but had to be re-
commenced when the new Government took office. The development of a
trustworthy relationship between the MOH and SIMAP proved problematic and, along
with a few difficulties in the procurement of foodstuffs, resulted in delays and uneven
quality in the implementation of the program. The Ministry of Health was concerned
about the impact that the sudden influx of maternal and child visits was going to have
on the quality of the services and on the nurses' already loaded schedules. Therefore,
SIMAP was forced to readjust its procedures in order to provide additional help for
the distribution of foodstuffs and in-kind compensation for health center staff. In
addition, it proved impossible for SIMAP to control the demand for the food
supplements and contain their distribution until the rehabilitation and equipment of the
health centers could be completed. This difficulty somewhat undermined the
concomitant objectives of improving quality of care while increasing mothers'
willingness to continue visits to the facilities in the post-distribution period. While it
appears that the quality of care provided in the health centers did not suffer as a result
of the nurses' overload, neither was there significant improvement. Finally, insufficient
efforts were made to provide nutrition and hygiene education, thereby jeopardizing
the sustainability of the nutritional improvements. Of particular concern is the lack of
impact in improving breast-feeding practices given the low breast-feeding rates



9
prevalent in the country.
Association Performance
24. The total time allocation on pre-board activities was 87.8 staff weeks during the FY
91-92 period, below the Bank-wide average for project preparation. The average time
allocated to supervision was 23.8 staff weeks per year as compared to a LAC's
average of 19.5 in social projects.
25. The overall cost of supervision was well below the Bank-wide average. The average
supervision cost for SIMAP was US$20,000 per year, as compared to the Bank-wide
average cost of social sector supervision of US$56,000 per year. On average, two
supervision missions per year were carried out by the task manager and an
infrastructure short-term consultant (paid with a Canadian Trust Fund). The focus of
early supervision missions was the reorganization of SIMAP which rendered it capable
of managing the relatively large influx of Bank funds, the effort to provide the Agency
with adequate working space, and the development of proper managerial and
operational procedures. Prevailing themes of supervision missions included: (i) the
need to maintain positive working conditions and competitive salaries; (ii) the need to
strengthen the Administrative Service Department (particularly the contracts and
procurement units); (iii) the need to integrate the different databases in a single user-
friendly MIS; (iv) the need to improve coordination between the operations and the
administrative services department; (v) the need to coordinate with the sectoral
Ministries, regional administrations and semi-autonomous agencies; and (vi) the need
to ensure the maintenance and sustainability of the subprojects initiated by SIMAP.
Overall, IDA's performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project, providing the
necessary guidance and feedback, responding promptly to SIMAP's requests,
coordinating closely with other donors (the IDB, the European Union, UNDP and
PAHO) and supporting SIMAP's efforts to achieve its developmental objectives.
Borrower Performance
26. Borrower performance was satisfactory in terms of sub-project design and
implementation, the completion of the LSMS and the policy development studies for
the education sector, and the institutional strengthening of SIMAP. Counterpart funds
were always available in sufficient amounts. Compliance with legal covenants was
generally satisfactory except for frequent delays in the presentation of reports and
audits. The contractual arrangement between SIMAP and the Crown Agents was
instrumental in ensuring the use of acceptable procurement practices. In addition,
SIMAP, in a commendable attempt to foster the sustainability of its projects, chose to
delay project implementation until the technical specifications and implementation
standards were discussed and agreed upon with sectoral ministries and relevant
agencies. SIMAP also made significant attempts to decentralize its operations and
promote regional ownership.



10
27. During the first two years of project implementation SLMAP made significant
improvements by reorganizing its functional structure, redefining job descriptions,
adopting a planning approach to management, and defining its operational procedures.
However, various management difficulties and the borrower's inability to retain certain
quality staff and managers took their toll and the Agency's performance started to
deteriorate somewhat at the beginning of 1996. The need to offer competitive salaries
was repeatedly brought to the borrower's attention, as were the likely ramifications for
project implementation and sustainability. In addition, although the quality of the
technical assistance was generally high, maximum benefit could not be derived due to
high personnel turnover in key positions.
Assessment of Outcome
28. The Project outcome is satisfactory in all its major components. SIMAP successfully
assisted the Government of Guyana in cushioning the social costs of the adjustment
process, and was effective in attracting and efficiently channeling domestic and foreign
financing for the social sectors. The rehabilitation and equipment of health and day-
care centers, and the rehabilitation of water supply, drainage and basic sanitation
systems has significantly improved the quality of life for many Guyanese. The
prospects for sustainability of all but the drainage projects are encouraging. SIMAP
has also contributed, directly or through the implementation of subprojects, to the
strengthening of GUYWA, the Ministry of Education, the Bureau of Statistics, the
Ministry of Health, and the municipalities' day-care center administrators. SIMAP is a
pioneer in Guyana in targeting and implementing social projects for the poorest
segments of the population. Most of the difficulties experienced in the timely
implementation of the Project were factors beyond SIMAP's direct control and
included: (i) the absence of sector policies in nutrition, health, water supply and basic
sanitation; (ii) the absence of standards for water supply projects; (iii) the limited
capacity of the local consulting and construction sectors; (iv) the difficulties in
procuring offshore construction materials; and (v) the weaknesses of the agencies and
ministries with which SIMAP had to coordinate. Factors negatively affecting the
project over which SIMAP had some control included the initial limited managerial
capacity to plan and administer contracts and the high personnel turnover due to
SIMAP's inability to maintain competitive salaries, the GOG's political priorities, and
migration.
Current and Future Operations
29. The first IDA-financed education project, and the first IDA-financed water supply
project are currently in operation. (In addition, a second IDB-financed SIMAP
Project for US$ 17 million is in effect.)



11
Key Lessons Learned/ Reconfirmed
30. The key lessons learned from SIMAP's experience may be summarized as follows:
*  Though recognized during project preparation, the absence of sector policies in
nutrition, health, water supply, and basic sanitation adversely affected SIMAP's
operations and the sustainability of some SIMAP subprojects, as has the lack of a
defined role for SIMAP within more defined policies. It is generally crucial to
develop and maintain strong links to sector policy, and to define such an
institution's role within this framework.
*  Pre-selecting the subproject sites during project preparation significantly increased
SIMAP's capability to timely implement the subprojects. However, as Guyana
develops greater managerial capacity and ability to organize and manage
community groups, a more demand-driven approach with greater community,
ownership and participation should be adopted. Greater community ownership
will likely result in improved subproject relevance, quality, and sustainability.
3  Greater emphasis should likely have been placed on subproject maintenance issues
during project preparation when negotiating project sites with the Regional
Administrations and related Ministries. Most Regional Administrations committed
themselves to subproject maintenance without having received information on the
time, skills and financial resources required for effective maintenance.
3 In the future, government agencies and communities responsible for the
sustainability of subprojects executed through SIMAP should be more actively
involved at all stages of the subproject cycle (from identification to completion).
3  The short and long-term success of nutrition projects implemented through health
centers is dependent upon the level of collaboration and commitment from the
MOH. The MOH should not only agree with the objectives of the project but also
participate in the definition of implementation procedures and in monitoring and
evaluating progress towards the achievement of those objectives.
*  Greater impact would have been gleened from the nutrition interventions had
project administrators emphasized: (i) greater coordination and/or collaboration
between the MOH and SIMAP; (ii) better coordination between food distribution
and the rehabilitation of the health centers; and (iii) greater investment in nutrition
education programs.
*  Implementation timetables should take into account the institutional capacity of the
implementing agency to manage the project, and the whether the sectoral
ministries are able to provide guidelines to successfully implement the subprojects
and ensure their sustainability.



12
*  More time should have been invested at the onset of the project in training
subproject officers and SIMAP's staff in the development and enforcement of
contracts for goods and works.
*  The greatest impediment to sustaining the institutional strengthening of SIMAP
has been the inability to attract and retain a stable, qualified staff due partly to
insufficient salaries.
*  The procurement contract with the Crown Agents significantly decreased IDA's
supervision time and cost.
* Coordination of IDA with other agencies financing projects through SIMAP was
crucial to the degree of success achieved.
*  The SIMAP Project was the first social sector IDA operation in Guyana. Owing
to Guyana's inexperience in dealing with IDA procedures, a significant amount of
time was needed to clarify expectations, to develop a meaningful and trustworthy
relationship, and to impress upon the Guyanese Government the importance of
adhering to the agreements reached during negotiations and specified in the DCA.
*  In general terms, a crucial factor hampering the development of Guyana is the
continuous migration of qualified personnel to other countries in the region and to
Europe. Under this circumstance, it becomes very difficult to identify cost-
effective investments in personnel training because of the uncertainty that trained
personnel will remain in the country. On the other hand, the need for qualified
personnel to lead the development of the nation is unquestionable.



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
_   ~~~~~~~~~M0 _W
Macro policies                                                                  X
Sector poicies 
Financial objectives 
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                               X
Gender issues                                   X
Other social objectives           X
Environmental objectives                                                       X
Public sector management  _                     X
Private sector development    _
Other (secif                                                                   X
Sustainability                    X
Subproject Sustainability         X
Identification 
Preparation assistance                          X
Appraisal                                       X
Supeviion                                       X
Preparation                                     X
Implementation             _
Covenant compliance                                            X
Oeain                                       X
Assessment of Overall Outcome                    X



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
.........................  .................... .......                       . . . . . . .   . . . .......... ........... . ..... .................... ................... .: ..... ........ ......  .
.........an!                                                                                                                 Yea   of'"                               .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ,,................... ..,.................                                                    .    ..   .....................................  ,.      ..
.............   ....    ...............   .     .......................................                    ...............    .....................................  ....................... ................
''''''''.. ''''''''''     t t    '' ''''''   ':     ...................  .......................................................................
Pre dIng                   ....-.. -..        -
CR-25590-GY                                      To improve the quality and reliability of                                     1993                  On Going
Water Supply Technical                           potable water in selected regions in Guyana                                                     (Closing Date)
Assistance and Rehabilitation   and enhance the efficiency of water sector                                                                            12/31/99
Project                                          institutions.
CR-2879-GY                                       To assist the Government to initiate a long-                                  1996                  On Going
Secondary School Reform                          term, multiphased education reform program                                                      (Closing Date)
Project                                          to improve quality, relevance, equity and                                                          12/31/2003
efficiency to secondary education in Guyana.
More specifically, the project would aim to:
(i) develop measures to improve the quality
and efficiency of lower secondary education
and test them at a limited number of schools
in order to gain acceptance before extending
the reform to the rest of the system; (ii)
improve the school environment by
supporting the rehabilitation and repair of
schools; and (iii) enhance the ability of
national and regional institutions to design,
plan for and implement sustainable
education reforms.
Potential El Ninio Emergency                                                                                             Tentatively               Preparation
Project                                                                                                                       1998



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
.. ............. ......- ......................................... -   ............... . ..... ............ .  ...............   " ' " I l 1 .1 1, l " I l ,. " " I ............... . ...........     .............   ...............  ... ........
Step in I -t Cyle                                     Dat-D Planned                       :               : A-e-  Dae -
..................    S   .   .......................  ...................................  ...............-........   ..........   .....   ......
Identification                                             December 1990                                  December 1990
Preparation                                                   March 1991                                      July 1992
Appraisal                                                      June 1991                                      April 1992
Negotiations                                                  March 1992                                     March 1992
Board Presentation                                            March 1992                                     March 1992
Signing                                                      August 1992                                    August 1992
Effectiveness                                                January 1993                                   January 1993
Midterm Review                                             December 1994                                   October 1994
Project Completion                                         December 1995                                      July 1997
Loan Closing                                                   June 1996                                  September 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR)
*EEEE FY'                              930 EE:     --94- 9-    96    9 7-  9..
Ei ... .................   ....... ......  E Eill:g.- i . ..   t g--:. -.... ........ . .. ... .....   .   . ....
......   .....................................................  .......   ....   . .......... .........................................................
Appraisal Estimate                      .92    2.17    4.65    7.50    7.50    7.50
Actual                                  .91  |1.94    3.15    4.15    5.54    7.15
Actual as % of                         98.9 | 89.4| 67.7   55.3    73.8    95.3
Estimate/Cumulative



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
.                                                     .    .   ... . ... . ... . ... . .... .... ... . ... ....... , , .............. .. .. .. ....... . j ........................ ................ ... ...... ........   . ...... ...... ..... ...... ...... ... ..
.                                                            . ... . ... . ... ........................................ ...... X - . ... ............ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
...................     ............... ..... .... ... ..........  ....  ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..    .............. . ..................    .......  ..............
PMU organization and staffing                                  September 1988
A substantial review of the financial
Accounting systems and procedures                              management, accounting and audit
aspects of the project was carried out in
I August 1989.
Annual action plan                                             First plan received in December 1988
| Financial Project Monitoring Manual                            March 1989
Project Implementation Manual                                  June 1989
Annual progress report                                         First report received in March 1990
Midterm review of the project                                  November 1994
Scientific meeting to discuss and                              December 1995
disseminate results of operational
research funded under the project.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
... .......  ......... .    .   . ...............................................   ...............   . ...........................   .....................   .......................   ....................   .................. Ei
.                                               . .... . .... ... ................................................................................................................................ . . . . . .   ...  ..  ...............   ....      ..
........................... .............. ................................  ................   .....   ............
(a)          number an amount of sub-projects approved per week;
(b)          number of sub-projects in execution;
(c)          amount of monthly disbursements;
(d)          rate of delays in sub-project execution;
(e)          administrative costs as a percentage of total SIMAP budget;
(f)          number of physical units completed (i.e., health centers rehabilitated, water
supply or drainage systems expanded and/or rehabilitated, quantities of food
delivered);
(g)          number of beneficiaries reached;
(h)          geographical distribution of sub-projects; and
Ci)          cost per unit delivered and cost per beneficiary



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
.~~~~~~~~~....          .......                                       .   ...         io.s-v....... ..:--:....
~~~~~~~~~~~~... . .. . . . ...                                             . ............... .........,,. ,,,........... ...... ....,,..-  
.......    .....................
1.      Revision of Health and Nutrition     Completed in 1993 - P.       All recommendations
Sub-Project Implementation           Trotter.                     were implemented
2.      Evaluation report on SIMAP Health    Completed in 1995 - J.       Most of the
and Nutrition Sub-Projects           McLoud                      recommendations
were im lemented
3.      Analysis and Assessment of the Food   Completed in 1997 - Immink  To be used as
Distribution Program to Health and                                reference for new
Day Care Centers                                                  program.
4.      SIMAP Operations Manual              Completed in 1992.           All recommendations
were implemented
5.      Program for Inventory on             Completed in 1992 - Hinds   More than 75% of the
Health Centers.                                                   recommendations
were implemented.
6.     Unit Price Data Base                  Completed in 1992 -          All recommendations
l______________________________________ Budram and Associates.             were implemented
7.     L.S.M.S                               Completed by Statistical     Some recommenda-
Bureau                      tions are being
implemented.
8.     Infant Mortality Survey               Final Report completed by    No request of this
GAHEF                       report was
implemented
9.     System Analysis                       Completed in 1993 by         Substantial
Hartman



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
.     . ..  .   .. . .                    .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . ...                      .. .. .   ..
i        l-~IA   raisa  Estimt (US$M) I Acta/aet   Estimatest (US$M
_____Costs  C,ss                                                       I ..a. i S I__
..,- ..:  I ,.-,$-. ''.'-'... ''.,,t . :--......... ................ .     . hA   :   t  W::   4,    .,, ::.d
--- ....--i.-.  --i- ..i,.-.E.                                      .   -Fiif  E rE. ,E-- -......  E     E . ...... .....--E
I. Health & Nutrition
-civil works                         0.68       0.17       0.85    0.07        1.35       1.42
(rehab of health centers)
-non-medical equipment,              0.10       0.10       0.20      .00      0.06        0.06
supplies & furniture
-medical equipment,                  0.33       0.99       1.32    0.01       0.17        0.18
supplies & drugs
-food items                          2.00       0.00       2.00    0.11       2.10        2.21
II. Day Care Centers
- civil works                         0.18       0.05       0.23    0.05       0.18        0.23
-equipment                            0.14       0.06       0.20    0.00       0.01        0.01
-food items                           0.58       0.00       0.58    0.02       0.08        0.11
III. Water & Sanitation
-water supply                         0.90       0.90       1.80    0.40       1.89       2.29
-basic sanitation                     0.51       0.09       0.60    0.06       0.30        0.36
-wastewater drainage                 0.48       0.72       1.20    0.42       1.98        2.40
IV. Technical Assistance
to participating SAs                  0.14       0.06       0.20    0.00       0.24       0.24
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. SIMAP/Administration
-salaries                              0.40       0.00       0.40    0.00       0.44        0.44
-travel training                       0.05       0.05       0.10    0.00       0.00        0.00
-operating expenditure                 0.35       0.00       0.35    0.00       0.07        0.07
Subtotal Administration                    0.80      0.05       0.85   l 0.00      0.52        0.52
(cont.)



20
Table 8A (cont.)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   ,,.11 ';'f"l    ....- -W
A   raisal Etimat (ISM    culLaetEtmts(US$M
SIMAP StIR- PROJECTS  LocrAal.Freg    Tota    Lcal 1s Foreig         Tot l
'..,. ...... ....: ....'   .......    ...   ..........'
2. Equipment, vehicles
and maintence
-equipment                       0.00     0.06     0.06            0.05     0.05
-vehicles                        0.00     0.18     0.18            0.00     0.00
-maintenance                     0.03     0.00     0.03            0.02     0.02
3. Technical Assistance            0.34     0.41     0.75            0.24     0.24
LSMS & MORBID. SURE
-salaries                        0.08     0.00     0.08            0.62     0.62
-equipment                       0.01     0.02     0.03            0.01     0.01
-operating expenditure           0.07     0.00     0.07            0.05     0.05
-Technical Assistance            0.02     0.10     0.12            0.01     0.01
HEALTH SECT. POL. DEV
-Technical Assistance            0.07     0.28     0.35
Table 8B:
Project Financing
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE              Actual (US $)
SOURCE                    TOTAL                     TOTAL
LD.A                              10.30                     10.01
Government                        0.53                      1.14
Beneficiaries                     0.57                      NA
LD.B.                             0.30                      NA



21
Table 8C: Subproject Financing Type
(In $GUY)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................   ................. ......   .... . .... ... - .  ,  ., ,.... ....,
Civil (Health)                         212,613,081.01                  201,806,908.74              40
Civil (Day Care)                         32,375,281.95                    34,978,945.25               8
Water Supply                           317,132,385.38                  312,666,691.04               22
Basic Sanitation                         49,894,083.37                    48,776,986.31              34
Residential Drainage                       310,189,092.82                  298,857,745.12               13
Other (Training)                           393,401.00                          96,000.00               1
Food (Day Care)                           16,725,116.50                   15,552,863.50               11
Medical Supplies (Day Care)                      4,791,406.00                     2,770,557.40              12
Food (Health)                          611,336,172.10                  312,573,032.74               57
Medical Equipment (Health)                       7,991,221.05                     8,030,378.06              55
Medical Equipment &  Supplies                    63,779,310.33                    21,861,919.08              57
(Health)
Vector control                           6,000,000.00                     5,998,897.00                1
a                   .1,633.... . . . ..... .2....20,5....1.....  ..... ........... .................  ... .......
............. ..,,,,...... t....................... .  .. .....



22
Table 8D: Beneficiaries Summary *
:ENE   T .G2.  :EG3   REG4  SREG7                                    8 _              G       T
Water, Sanitation and
Drainage                                           _______    ___
Small farmers                    0         0    6,000             0        0           0        0        0        0          0        6,000
Stailholders                     0          0         0           0        0           0        0        0        0         25           25
Children (nursery school         0          0         0        215        59           0        0        0        0           0         274
age)                                 _ _ _ _ __              _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _  _ _
Children  (primary  schoo        0          0    1,666         773   5,129       2,802   2,83            0        0          0      13,233
age)                                                                                            6             _  _ _   _  _  _
Children (secondary school       0          0    3,709       1,872      727            0        0        0        0          0        5,678
age)_                         __                               _      _  _      _      _
Other direct beneficiary         0   10,036   17,87        18,077   9,820   44,129              0        0        0     1,135    101,067
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   0   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _.
Technical and
Vocational Training_
Other direct benefiaciary      40           0         0           0        0           0        0        0        0          0           40
Community
Other direct beneficiary         0         0          0        900         0           0        0        0        0          0          900
Day Care                                                 I
Children (day care center        0          0         0        746         0         75       50         0        0        100          971
a ge)_                        __                   __                    _      _   __          _    __                      _
Children (nursery school         0         0          0        100         0        100         0        0        0        113          313
age)                       _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _                         _  _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _             _ _ _ _
Targeted women                   0         0          0        110         0           0        0        0        0          0          110
Other direct beneficiary        0          0          0           0        0           0      10         0        0          0            10
Secondary School
Children (primary school         0      239           0           0        0           0        0        0        0          0          239
age)                       _     _    _     _   _     _     _    _    _    _    _      __                         _    _     _    _     _
Otherdirect beneficiary         0    3,322         758            0        0        755         0        0        0          0       4,835
Children (secondary schdo        0         0       742      2,450          0           0        0        0        0          0        3,192
age)                                                                                         =        =         =
* Source: SIMAP Agency



23
Tablel 8D..Continued
|      t~~~R     YT Y ::P W..E-.. ......                            ............. .....     .............. : -    ................  ....._ .  LA W
BTENEFICIAR TYERGGRG    E3   E4RG    E6RA7 RG   E9RGOT A
Nursery School
Children(nurseryschool         0       150          0       338         0          0        0        0       0          0         488
Otherdirectbeneficiary         0          0         0       150         0          0        0        0       0          0         150
Other Social
Other direct beneficiary       0          0         0   25,000          0          0        0        0       0          0     25,000
Primary School
Children(nurseryschool         0        31          0          0        0          0        0        0        0         0           31
age)                     _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _
Children (primaryschool        0    1,286           0      0412         0          0        0        0        0      551        2,249
Otherdirect beneficiary        0          0         0    3,685          0          0        0        0        0    1,280        4,965
Shelter
Elderly 60+ years              0    0          0         0              0         60        O 0          0              0          60



24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits *
The economic costs and benefits were calculated by Project type at the preparation stage. Assumptions were
made in order to arrive at fairly realistic figures to carry out calculations.
(a) Storm Water Drains
1.     Capital Cost                        US$2,400,000
Present Value 25 Years at 10%
Discount Rate                           217,848
2.     Operation & Maintenance Cost
Annual Operations & Maintenance Cost
3% of cost of works                      72,000
1.      Percentage Households Flooded                    1 100%
2.       Number of Households                            9,251
3.       Population                                     46,255
4.       Annual Value of Garden Group               US$323,785
| 5.    Inconvenience Cost                         US$194,271
.6.      ImprovedHealh                              US$ 53,425
4   Total Annual Benefits       H         US$571,481
| ________Benefit_Cost_Ratio  _                          2/1
| ________Cost Ler Household       _                   US$259
Assumptions
Garden crops average value per household per annum - US$35.
Inconvenience value at US$3.5 per day per household
6 days per year for prolonged flooding
3 days per year for intermittent flooding
Improved health valued at US$ 3.5 per day.
Lost work opportunity 5 days per year for adult (assumed 33% of population).
* Source: SIMAP Agency



25
For all infrastructure projects other than Storm Water Drains.
(b) Water Supply:
US$
Capital Cost                                                   290,000
Present Value at 40 Years @  10% discount                      223,939
Operations and Maintenance
Cost at 3% of total Capital Cost                                68,700
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ...  ...I ....................... .......
~~~~~~~~~..  :.E. .. ......-- .................................. E  .E. . ...... ...  ......  ....   11X r1 9  ...    ...-.E-  
US$
Benefits - Total number
households/beneficiaries                                        8,412
Benefits per Annum                                         5,373,165
Benefit/Cost Ratio
18/1
Cost Per Beneficia                                               272
Assumption
It has been assumed that a minimum half hour per day per household wilU be utilized for fetching water - valued
at US$1.75.
For Non Infrastructure Projects
For all Projects that were not of an infrastructure nature namely -
-      Day Care Centers (Food)
-      Health Center (Food)
-      Health (Non Medical Equipment)
-      Health (Medical Equipment & Supplies)
-      Vector Control
The benefits were expressed in terms of- improved basic health Care services -
reduced malnutrition level
cost/saving and improvement in the quality of service



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
2.10(a)     9         CD     04/30/93    08/04/93        Annual Reports
CD     04/30/94    07/31/94                             Annual reports were
CD     04/30/95    07/31/5                               consistently delayed.
CD     04/30/96    01/30/97
2.10(b)      1        CD     06/30/94    02/15/95-       Financial Audit       The quality of the Financial
Audit for 1997 was good.
CD     06/30/95    03/30/96-
C     06/30/96    06/30/96
CD     06/30/97    06/30/97
9      CD-CP                                Quarterly reports     Most Quarterly reports were
received, but were delayed.
2.10(c)     9       CD-CP   Monthly                      Monthly reports      Computer outputs of the MIS
and the computerized financial
system were to be received
monthly, but were not
regularly received.
2.11       5         C      All times                  Unit Cost Database    The unit cost database was
created in 1992 but was not
used until 1994 when projects
started to be prepared by
external consultants..
Suppl.      5         C      10/31/92              Strengthening Administrative  The final report is available.
Letter                                               and Accounting Systems    Based on an IDB
11.5                                                                         recommendation, an intemal
auditor been hired.
11.6       5         C      11/30/92    03/96       Management Information    The consultancy was not
System           needed, There is a good MIS
in place. The IDB financed a
study recommending the
installation of a network to
improve the accuracy of
project data.
11.7       9         C     01/31/93    09/30/93        Poverty Targeting     A joint evaluation of SlMAP's
projects was carried out by
1DB and IDA. Poverty
targeting issues were included
in the evaluation and the
report was finalized in
September, 1993.
11.8       5         C      11/30/92                  Unit Cost Database     The consultancy was
completed and the system is in
place.
11.9       5         C     02/28/93                 The Operations Manual    The Operations Manual was
completed during the last
quarter of 1992 and it is
updated regularly. There is no
need for this consultancy.
11.10      9        CD      09/30/92                 Food Supplementation    A consultancy was hired in
February, 1993 for a period of
5 months to help project
officers improve the quality of
the projects that had a
nutrition



27
II.10       5        CD       09/30/92                   Food Suplementation     component. The report was
sent to IDA in August 1993.
The mid-term quantitative
evaluation of the nutrition
projects was completed m
April 1995.
I.. .11     5        CD         10/92                  Sub-project Implementation   An implementation specialist
visited Guyana in January,
March-April and October,
1993, and January, 1994. He
focused on organizing the
Agency, developing a work
plan, policies and proce-
dures. Four reports are avai-
lable. These consultancies
were of tremendous help to
SHIMAP.
I.1        5        CP       06/30/94                   54 health and nutrition  A consultant looked at how to
projects         improve the quality of the
projects; 57 completed.
1.2        5        CP       06/30/94                 15 Day care center projects   18 Centers were equiped or
rehabilitated.
1.3        5        CP       06/30/94                    34 Water Projects      30 Projects were completed
1.3        5        CP       06/30/94                 130 basic sanitation units   34 Projects completed.
(Number of units unknown)
L3         5        CP       06/30/94                   28 drainage projects    13 Projects were completed
3.06        5        C      Condition of             Contract a procurement agent  Crown Agents were
effectiveness                                       contracted on Nov. 1992
3.07        9         C       12/31/94                    Mid-term Review       Completed in 11/94
Key Concepts
Covenant Types:
1  Account /audits                              8 Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/generate revenue        9 Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of project funds         10 Project implementation not covered by
4 Counterpart funding                               categories 1-9
5 Management aspects of the project or          11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
executing agency                                 resource allocation
6 Environmental covenants                       12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
7 Involuntary resettlement                          institutional
13 Other
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = not complied with
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially
NYD = No yet due



1                                                                                            00
.               ......          
....   ..... ....    ....
1                                                                                -4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .
.. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ....... ......
U,~~~~~~~~~...........
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                             .....
00... .......  ..0.
C4~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ 
..          . . . ..   . . . .
cc
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
0   ..................                                     .................
-                                  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...
*                               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... 
... .. .. .    . .. .. ... .. ..
- - 



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
...      ''     ''     'l,.........    ..... ...........  .   ..   ...................  ..              ...    ........................  .............  .............. .
,                                                       ,,,   .,, ,,,, ,    ..   ,, ,   .,,, .,,, ., .. , .,,,, ....... .,,,, . . ., ........ ..................... .................  .............  ...............    ......................
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ................,,,,.................     .. ,"
.                                                 . ..  , ,,  ,    -'   .. ..... ... ..... ........ , ., ..... .. ... ,,.,. , ...... ...... ,.,. . . . .   .  :  : : : : :
.                                                   . .    , , ,., . '    ' , ,,, ,   ,'.,,,,., ... , .''""'w''''''. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .        . .        . . .      . . .      . . .    
Day    SpcaizdTpes o
.. . ...    . ................   ................   ..................  ...........  ... . . . . .....................  . . . . . . ......  : :., .....  .. . . . . ......  .. .. .. . '  .. .. ..   ..  .. . . . . . . . . .   '..'..  ..'. ... ... .. .  .   ....,..........
"  '.'  '    '.'  '  '.  :   :.'  '.:'  ''''''' ' '  .........  . E   ........ '    :'''   '    ' '  ' : : '  _   _   '   ............................. ......................
Cycle     Year         Personi           FieLd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R Represente.........d    "Siatus   s
Trough Appraisal
Identification
8/90              3              5           PO,CE,TM
11/90              1              6                CE
_________________  12/90             1              5                 H
Preparation
01/91              5               8            WS, N,
H (2),CE
03/91              4              12    WS,N,H,CE   _
11/91              1              5                CIS
_____________ _ 0                     07/92              2               5               D,E .E_
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal
(Pre-Appraisal                 6-7/91              5              14            H, E, SI,
/Appraisal Mission)                                                                 N, CPS
Appraisal Mission                   7/91
Follow-up                    10/91
Post Appraisal                  11/91              4               7           H,E,N, D
Supervision
Superwsion:
I                     11/92              5              13    D,O,H, PH,                       2               2
N
II                     2/93               1              6                 D
HII                     3/93              1              11                 H                    2              2
IV                     8-9/93              1              4                 E
V                      11/93              1              2                  H                   2              2
VI                      6/94               1           N/A                  H                    2              2
VII                     11/94              2            N/A                H.IS                  2               2
VIII                      6/95              2            N/A               H,IS                   2              2
IX                      5/96               1              2                 H                    2              2
X                      11/96              2              2               H,IS                   2              2
XI                     01/97              2               2               H,IS                   2              2
Completion                     6/97              3               5             H,IS,E                   2              2                      =
a CE = Sr. Country Econonist; CIS = Consultant Integral Systems; CPS = Consultant Sub-Project Supervision CO = Country



30
officer; D = Division Chief; E = Economist; F = Financial Analyst; H = Sr.Health Specialist; IC = Infiastructure Consultor,
IS = ifrastucture Specialist; N = Nutrition Specialist; 0 Operations Assistant; PE = Project Coordinator Engineer, PH=
Public Health Specialist; PO = Sr. Portafolio Officer, TM = Task Manager
SI = Summer Intern; SL = Sector Leader, WS = Water and Sanitation Specialist
b/ I= Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; 3= Major Problems; S= Satisfactozy, U=Unsatisfactory
c/ L = legal; M = management performance; F = availability of funds; PR = procurement.
* N/A Not Available - Field days were not monitored on past Project Status Report (590's)



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA - SIMAP
HEALTH, NUTRITION AND WATER SANITATION
PROJECT (CR 2358 GUA)
INTRODUCTION
This is the Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Health, Nutrition and Water and
Sanitation Project in Guyana, for which loan (Credit 2358 - GUA)
for the amount of US$10.3 million was approved on August 7, 1992
the first disbursement being made in March 1993. The Donor
financed US$10.3 million and the Government of Guyana and the
I.D.B. (as co-financing) US$1.4 million.
The closing date for payments was June 30, 1997, one year after
the original closing date of June 30, 1996 with a further
extension of 3 months to September 30, 1997, which was given to
complete four (4) ongoing sub-projects namely -
(1) Annandale/Mon Repos Residential Drains
(2) Uniform/Richmond Residential Drains
(3) No. 73 Village Water Supply
(4) Lusignan Residential Drains
Final payments were made in November 1997 when the loan was
closed and a balance of US$116,078 remained undisbursed. The
expenditure by category is given in the statement of expenditure.
The total number of sub-projects by component financed by this
loan is given in the Table that follows:
1.



Project Achievements:
NO.  SUB-PROJECT COMPONENT TYPE         NUMBER OF
COMPONENTS
1.   Water Supply and Sanitation        21
2.   Basic Sanitation                    30
3.   Residential Drainage                13
4.   Technical Assistance to SAs         1
5.   Civil (Day Care)                    8
6.   Food (Day Care)                     11
7.   Medical Equipment i Supplies (Day Care)  12
8.   Civil (Health)                     40
9.   Food (Health)                      57
10.  Non Medical Equipment (Health)     55
II.  Medical Equipment & Supplies (Health)   57
12.  Vector Control                      1
TOTAL                              306
Note:  Two (2) sub-projects one from 6 and 7 - namely (i)  Moruca
Day Care Centre (Food) and (ii) Moruca Day Care Centre (Non
Medical Supplies), commenced but were withdrawn, because the cost
of transportation of supplies was exorbitant. The total contract
sum of the two projects was US$308,352 with US$246,194 remaining
unspent when these projects were withdrawn. These have been
counted in the overall total.
The objective of this project was to assist the Government of
Guyana in cushloning the social costs of the adjustment process
through the establishment of an effective mechanism aimed at
addressing the basic needs of the population in a decentralized
manner. The project's aim was to:-
(a)  improve health and nutrition status in particular of
pregnant and lactating women and children under five
years of age, over the short term through the financing
of food supplementation programs, the rehabilitation
and equipping of health care centres and day care
centres and the rehabilitation of water supply,
sanitation and storm water drainage structures, and
(b)  assist the Government of Guyana in the formulation of
sustainable policies and programs in the social
sectors, in the medium term.
2.



The project consisted of four components -
(a) institutional development
(b) sub-project implementation
(c) establishment of a living standard measurement survey
(LSMS) and
(d) development of a policy framework in the health sector.
See Table 8A Project Cost.
A total expenditure of 10% for 1993 was achieved. A decision
taken by World Bank in 1994 to have all sub-projects prepared by
Consultants resulted in increased expenditure.
LESSONS LEARNT
The lessons learnt in respect of the implementation of the
project that were directly related to the project.
(1) Infrastructure:
The limitations of the capacities of some contractors within
some sub-project areas disqualified them from being chosen
for sub-projects located within their areas of operation.
This had a negative effect on employment generation within
these sub-project areas. In some cases the suoervisors on
the jobs had to make some key decisions because the
contractors did not frequently visit the sub-projects. The
imperative that contracts be awarded to the lowest tender is
of concern, since this caused underbidding, resulting in
devious methods used by the contractors to complete their
work e.g. underpaid labour force which resulted in project-
delays and other problems. It is possible that quality and
specifications can be compromised, in circumstances such as
these. SIMAP, therefore had to be extra vigilant to avoid
such occurrences.
3.



(2) Residential Drains:
(a) It was necessary for primary works to be completed
before the implementation of a residential drainage
project.
(b) In some areas consultants inflated the design
quantities since their payments were determined by the
total projects cost and this affected the project size
in some areas e.g. Manchester/Liverpool and
Henrietta/Richmond.
Outfall structures and channels which is the responsibility
of Central Government were not always done on time.
Illegal squatting by residents did not always allow easy
access to work.
In some cases residents were living within the limits of the
way-leave while others had their cash crops on the way-
leave. (Note: - a way-leave is the limits on the land on
which construction work can be done).
More comprehensive and formalised maintenance plans should
be determined at the beginning of a project so as to ensure
adequate sustainability.
the quantities and specifications given by GUYWA
were frequently changed. The valve chambers and
timber trestles were often wrongly sized and had
to be redesigned by the Supervisor/SIMAP.
-    self-help work for the laying of pipelines
especially, should be more organised since our
experience is that improper organisation by
communities caused unusual delays e.g. Coomaka and
West Watooka Water Supply Projects. These groups
were not cohesive, as a result of which works were
not executed as programmed.
-    the monitoring officers/supervisors should be more
proactive with a view of completing the project
within the funding limit.
-   World Bank teams/officials visiting other WB/IDA
projects in Guyana e.g. SSRP can briefly visit
other projects e.g. SIMAP to find out about their
development and problems.
4.



Technical Assistance:
For future International Consultancies preference should be given
to local consultants to the extent that they have the relevant
expertise. This can be achieved by public advertisements instead
of appointments. SIMAP's experience is that External Consultants
are more costly and rely heavily on local inputs.
Infrastructure:
SIMAP has executed projects in the areas of the supply of food to
health centres, rehabilitation of health centres and
rehabilitation and construction of day care centres, water supply
systems, residential drains and sanitary blocks. Commitments by
the agencies responsible for the maintenance and sustainability
of these projects were, as a rule, requested and obtained for the
infrastructural projects. However, from experiences with World
Bank funded projects, e.g. the rehabilitation of Johanna/Mibikuri
Residential Drains and the rehabilitation of Pouderoyen
Residential Drains, it would appear that the ongoing maintenance
of these projects could pose a problem.
For the water supply projects, GUYWA w6uld be responsible for the
maintenance and sustainability. For the residential drainage
projects which include primary drains, the reactivated Drainage
and Irrigation Board would be the responsible agency for the
maintenance works. For other residential drains, the Regional
Administrations would need to encourage community participation
to supplement their maintenance allocation. This is possible in
areas which boast vibrant Neighbourhood Democratic Councils and
Community-Development Groups, but may not be such a feasible
proposition where such groups are weak and lack the active and
participatory support of the communities.
In certain areas, Health Centre Boards responsible for the
management of these centres at a community level have been
established, which have on their mandates, the maintenance of
Health Centres.
Procurement:
In the case of procurement, the Crown Agents audited all
procurement undertaken by SIMAP e.g procurement of milk and rice,
medical equipment etc. The Crown Agents also assessed contracts
for local tenders over G$7 M.
5.



Water Supply and Sanitation:
Standard designs of Sanitary Blocks by location and number of
beneficiaries have been developed using guidelines from the
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. This will
definitely simplify project preparation for future sanitary
blocks projects.
Training:
More emphasis should be placed on medium to long term training of
both SIMAP personnel as well as community groups since it would
enhance the rate of implementation of projects.
Constraints:
The following constraints prohibited the timely completion of
projects and subscribed to time over runs in the execution of
projects.
a)   Consultants' preparation of projects could be improved to
ensure greater accuracy.
b)   More detailed study should be done on contractors to
determine their suitability for jobs than the way it is
presently done.
c)   A local World Bank Office in Guyana can avoid delays in the
decision making process.
d)   The lack of effective coordination between local agencies
e.g. the Ministry of Health and the Drainage and Irrigation
Board affected work in some sectors.
e)   Illegal squattlng by residents did not allow easy access to
work.
f)  There was an extended rainy season in 1996 severely hampered
construction progress.
g)   Supply of good quality materials was not always readily
available and suppliers did not always honour their
commitment to contractors resulting in time loss because of
inadequate materials on site.
6.



i)   There were a few contractors who were disorganised and
mismanaged their cash flow, resulting in the termination of
their contracts and the re-tendering of those projects e.g.
Mon Repos/Annandale Residential Drainage Project and
Brothers Health Centre.
j)   A skilled labour supply was not always available and some
contractors found it difficult to recruit competent and
reliable crews.
k)   On most of the projects, design changes were necessary and
re-designs coupled with the issuing of change orders
resulted in delays in completion.
1)   The system of open tendering brought in contractors who were
exposed to the execution of Water Supply projects for the
first time. This caused an undue delay in the execution of
works. However, those who completed their projects
successfully are now on a higher point of the learning curve
and are thus capable of executing works of a similar nature.
m)   In one instance, (Manchester/Liverpool Storm Water Drainage
Project) inaccurate design quantities triggered off a hiatus
between contractor and consultant. The contractor hired an
independent surveyor to -re-check the "as constructed"
quantities. This halted the progress of the project.
n)   Insufficient design details halted the construction of the
outfall structure at Hogstye. Eventually, it was decided to
rehabilitate another structure which was located in the
valley of the project area. This was due to a lack of
foresight on the part of the consultant and the sponsor.
The water supply projects were difficult for the following
reasons -
-    The contractors were new to this type of operations and
they started at the bottom of the learning curve.
The procurement of materials was a time consuming
activity, since most of the materials were procured
offshore.
7.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25723
8t   ~~~~~~~~~M.h.
t    KM~~~~~~A8AftJ,4A .8
<'/%   f                       :                         GUYANA
Av                ~~~~~~~PORTK-.
KAITUMA         KD> -
o   TOWNSWAKAIMA                                /      P g     ANNA REGINA
IN L AIRPTEG,ON 2                                                          OCEAN
RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVETR
I A5D~~~~~~~~~UPENAUARM n,,
REGION BOUND SREGION 4
MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AE
9              ~~~~~~REGION 7                      EGIm.ON 3         W <t
o                                      ISSA 20  30  40N 50  AISHALT (ONkl
0 20 40  60 80R Gf                                                      o
KILOMETERS~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                       NWAMTRDk
KUUPN                                                                         N UUUAR  
K.-.. g  d eLMIodon
VENEZUELA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
I.':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
MAHDI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ACH19
-~~~~~~~    ~~~~ RAILOAD  NK/CCOb                               1 0     \ budr
REGION~~REIO BONAIS                                                   U     -
INTERNATIONAL 30UNDARIES AND CREKURUPUKAR
KILOMETER~~~~~~~~~~S U_  I N A M8
4'AM     PRMR ROYADS                    O/  thi  ma                                                       o    o
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipy onE Ft  eS part of 4/
RALRADS                                                                              or acetac  of lapch
INTEBRNATIONL BRAIRPORT
.PRUIVERS>
REGION~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~AC BOUNARIE



