C, ~2 35g&
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                 Report No. 10146-GUA
Report No. 10146-GUA Type:  (SAR)
COLL, XK    / X31987 / I-5119/ LA3WR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH, NUTRITION, WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
APRIL 2, 1992
Ru-man Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ustd by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may nt otherwise he disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1991)
Currer.cy Unit - Guyana Dollar (G$)
US$1.0   G$120.00
G$1.0 - US$0.00833
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CFNI      Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute
EEC       European Economic Community
EP        Emergency Program
EPI       Expanded Program of Immunization
ERP       Economic Recovery Program
ESF       Economic and Social Fund
GAHEF     Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education, Environment and Food Policy
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
COG       Government of Guyana
GRO       Guyana's General Registration Office
GUYWA     Guyana Water Authority
GUYMINE   Guyana Mining Enterprises Limited
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IES       Income and Expenditure Survey
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IMR       Infant Mortality Rate
LSMS      Living Standards Measurement Survey
MCSA      Ministry of Culture and Social Assistance
MCSD      Ministry of Culture and Social Development
MDI       Multiple Deprivation Index
MMR       Maternal Mortality Rate
MOH       Ministry of Health
NCHS      US National Center for Health Statistics
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
PAHO      Pan American Health Organization
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RDCs      Regional Democratic Councils
SA        Sponsoring Agency
SILWFC    Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund Committee
SIMAP     Social Impact Amelioration Program and Agency
TFR       Total Fertility Rate
UNICEF    United Nations Children Fund
WFP       World Food Program



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
SInAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND VATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAJY APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET  ............................. I ., .                   ....    iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................,                           v
I. NACROECONONIC SETTING .               .       .. ..........  1
II.    TME SINAP AGENCY                                                                    2
Origins and Objectives.                                                            2
Institutional Structure and Staffing.                                              3
Functions and Approach.                                                            3
III. SOCIAL SECTORS.                                                                       4
Social Indicators.                                                                 4
Population.                                                                 4
Health                                                                      4
Nutrition                                                                   5
Sources of Data.                                                            7
The Health Care System.                                                            8
Water Supply and Sanitation                                                        9
Water Supply    ............                                                9
Human Excreta Disposal .10
Stormwater Drainage .10
Sectoral Study and Master Plan                                             11
The Role of International Donor Agencies .11
IV. THE ROLE OF EGOs .12
V. WOMEN'S CONSIDERATIONS .,,                                                           12
VI.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEM.ET                                                      13
This report is based on the findings of preparation and appraisal missions that visited Guyana
between December 1990 and October 1991. The missions were led by Xavier Coll (LA3HR) and comprised
Julie Van Domelen (Consultant), Fernando Vio (Consultant), Gerardo Garrett (Swmmer Intern), Elene
Makonnen (PHRWH)p Roy Ramani (LA3IE), Fernando Patiflo (Consultant), and Renata Claros (Consultant).
The peer reviewers were Steen Jorgensen (AF6PH) and Julio Linares (EH2IE). M. V. Lister and S. Dy
(LA30R) contributed to the preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
page no,
VII.            tlf         I J C                  ..............................................................                                                            14
Objectives                                      ....................................................                                                         14
Summary  Project  Description                                                            ...................................                                 14
Detailed Project Description                                           ..................................                                                    15
Institutional  Development  Component  .......................                                                                                 15
Sub-Project  Implementation Component  ......................                                                                                  16
LSMS   Component                     ...........................................                                                                18
Health Sector Policy Development Component   ....                                                                       ...........    18
Environmental   Aspects                              ....................................                                                       18
VIII.    PROJECT I                                                        .          .          ..........................................                                      19
Institutional  Arrangements                                        ...................................                                                       19
Implementation  Arrangements   ................                                                      ..             ..................                       19
Promotion   and   Targeting                              ..................................                                                     19
Sub-Project   Appraisal                                ...................................                                                      21
Sub-Project Implementation and Supervision    ....                                                                       ..........    23
Sector   Coordination                              ..................                       I           ..................                      24
Information Management, Monitoring and Evaluation  .... ....    24
Review   by   IDA                  ............................................                                                                 25
-II.    PRO_JECT COSTS. FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROcREMET    .......   26
Project   Costs                      .................................................                                                                       26
Financing Plan   I ...............................................   28
Cofinancing Arrangements                                      ......................................                                                         28
Disbursements                        .................................................                                                                       28
Accounts and Auditing                                                  ....................  29
Procurement ...                                                                                        ....................  29
Civil  Works                    .............................................                                                                   31
Goods  ..                                                                                                                                       31
Consultants                     .............................................                                                                   32
IDA's Review .                                  ...........................................    32
X.  §BL_FITS An  RI    ...........................,,,....  33
Benefits                  ......................................................                                                                             33
Risks                           .........................................................                                                                    33
xI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED MAD RECOMMENDATION                                                              .........................                                        33
Agreements Reached .................                                                                                                                         33
Recommendation ................ .                                                                                                                            35



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      Official Order
ANNE  2:      Organizational Structure of SIMAP Agency
ANNEX 3:      Social Sectors
ANNEX 4:      Nutrition Programs
ANNEX 5:      Institutional Development Component:  Technical Assistance
ANNEX 6:      Criteria for Sub-Project Eligibility
ANNEX 7:      SIMAP Framework for Phase-Out Plan
ANNEX 8:      Key Indicators of SIMAP's Management Information System
ANNEX 9:      Implementation Plan and Review Criteria
ANNEX 10:     Detailed Project Costs
AMNEX l:      Financing Plan
ANNEX_ 12:    Table 1 Disbursement Forecast
Table 2 Disbursement Allocations
ANNEX 13:     Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 14:     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP&:    IBRD No. 11683R1



iv  -
GUYANA
S8HAP/JHALTH. NUTRITION. M D WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
DATA    YEAR   SOURCE
A.      GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1.  Total Population (Million) (Estimated)                    0.80    1989       SID
2.  Population Projection (Million):                          0.82    2000       SID
3.  Size of Stationary Population (Million)                   1.30    1989       SID
4.  Urban Population 2 of Total                               34.1    1989       SID
5. Area (1,000 Xm2)                                            215    1989       SID
6.  Pop. Density (Per Km2)                                       4    1989       SID
7.  GNP Per Capita (US$)                                       310    1989       IMP
B.      POPULATION DATA:
1.  Crude Birth Rate (Per 1,000 Population)                   25.6    1989       SID
2.  Crude Death Rate (Per 1,000 Population)                    7.6    1989       SID
3.  Annual Rate of Population Growth (2)                       0.1    1989       SID
4.  Total Fe.tility Rate (Births Per Woman)                   2.92    1989       SID
5. Population Age Structure (2 of Total):
14 and under                           35.9    1989       SID
15-64 Years                            59.2    1989       SID
6.  Contraceptive Prevalence (2 Women 15-49)                  29.0    1975       SID
C.      HEALTH DATA:
1.  Population Per Physician (Persons)                       6,220    1989       SID
2.  Population Per Nurse (Persons)                             885    1989       SID
3.  Population Per Hospital Bed (Persons)                      300    1989       SID
4.  Health as Percentage of GDP                                4.4    1987        UN
5. Health as Percentage of Total Govt. Expenditure             3.7    1984       IMp
6.  Infant Mortality Rate (Per 1,000 live births)             53.2    1989       SID
7.  Under 5 mortality Rate (Per 1,000 live births)            64.3    1989       SID
8.  Life Expectancy at Birth (Years):    Women                66.6    1989       SID
Overall              63.7    1989        SID
9.  Prevalence of malnutrition (under 5)                      22.1    1989       SID
B.      NUTRITION DATA:
1.  Daily Calorie Supply (Per Person)                        2,373    19C-9      SID
2.  Daily Protein supply (Grams Per Person)                     59    1989       SID
E.      EDUCATION DATA:
1.  Primary Education Enrollment Rate (Z): Total              90.0    1989       SID
Female                99.0    1989        SID
2.  Secondary Education enrollment Rate (2): Total            55.0    1989       SID
Female             62.0    1989        SID
3.  Tertiary and Higher Education Enrollment Rate (2)          8.0    1988          *
4. Total Education Expenditure as Share of Total
Public Expenditures (2)                              5.5    1988/89   IDB
5.  Public Education Expenditures as Share of GDP              4.3    1988/89      **
6.  Illiteracy rate: Overall Z of Pop.(age 15+)                4.1    1989        SID
2 of Female (age 15+)                    5.2    1989        SID
7.  Pupil-teacher ratio: Primary                                37    1989       SID
Secondary                                 19    1989       SID
8.  Pupils reaching grade 4 (Z of cohort)                     94.0    1989       SID
9.  Repeater rate: Primary                                     3.5    1989       SID
SOURCES: Social Indicators of Development, 1990. Most recent eitimates (SID)
Inter-American Development Bank, Health Care II Project, 1990 (IDB)
United Nations, Statistical Yearbook for Latin America and the Caribbean (UN)
International Monetary Fund, Government Finance Statistics Yearbook (IMP)
* Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education, June 1991
** Ministry of Education, Guyana, 1990



GUYANA
SINAPaHEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJFt
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Governuent of Guyana (COG)
Beneficiaries:   Target groups in rural and urban poverty areas, in
particular women in child bearing age and children under 5
years of age, to be reached through NGOs, grass roots
organizations, and local governments.
Amount:          SDR 7.5 million  (US$10.3 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms: The GOG will pass on the funds to SIMAP. SIMAP will finance
sub-projects through NGOs, grass roots organizations and
local governments on a grant basis.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description: The main objective of the proposed project will be to assist
the GOG in cushioning the social costs of the adjustment
process through the establishment of an effective mechanism
aimed at addressing the basic needs of the population in a
decentralized manner, such as through NGOs, community
groups, and local government agencies. The project will aim
to: (a) improve health and nutrition status over the short-
term, in particular of pregnant and lactating women and
children under five, through the financing of food
supplementation programs, the rehabilitation and equipping
of health care centers and day-care centers, and the
rehabilitation of the water supply, sanitation and
stormwater drainage structures; and (b) assist the GOG in
the formulation of sustainable policies and programs in the
social sectors over the medium-term. The proposed project
will consist of four components: (a) institutional
development; (b) sub-project implementation; (c)
establishment of a living standards measurement survey
(LSMS); and (d) development of a policy framework in the
health sector.
The institutional development component (16 percent of total
costs) will complement the efforts by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) to assist the GOG in the development
of administrative, management and operational procedures for
the Social Impact Amelioration Program (SIMAP) Agency.
Financing will be provided for technical assistance,
administrative costs, vehicles and office technology. A
dated plan of action to phase-out SIMAP and gradually
integrate its activities into existing government agencies



- vi -
has been developed and will be implemented. SIMAT will be
vested with administrative, technical and financial autonomy
and will be responsible for appraising, approving, financing
and monitoring sub-projects. The sub-project implementation
component (78.5 percent of total costs) will primarily
address the basic health, nutrition and water and sanitation
needs of the groups most affected by the country's economic
decline, and in particular of pregnant and lactating women
and children under five years of age. Eligibility criteria
developed during project preparation define the nature and
scope of sub-projects to be implemented in this component.
Financing will be provided for: (a) rehabilitation and
equipping of primary health care facilities; (b) nutrition
surveillance and education, and food distribution programs
targeted at children and pregnant and lactating women; (c)
construction, rehabilitation and equipping of day-care
centers; (d) installation and rehabilitation of basic water
supply facilities and sanitation systems, and extension and
rehabilitation of small drainage systems; and (e) technical
assistance to sponsoring agencies. Based on proposals
received over the past twelve months, SIMAP has identified a
portfolio of solid sub-projects to be financed during the
first year of implementation of the proposed project. The
LSMS component (2.5 percent of total costs) will entail the
development of a household survey to assist the GOG in the
evaluation of policies and programs, with a particular focus
on the social sectors. The LSMS will be implemented in
conjunction with an income and expenditure survey financed
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and will
draw data from a third of its 7,000 household sample.
Financing will be provided for technical assistance,
operating expenditures, and equipment. The health sector
golicy develogment component (3 percent of total costs) will
include the financing of national and international
technical assistance to help the GOG define medium-term
policies and strategies for the health and nutrition sectors
and, on that basis, design a portfolio of programs and
projects for external financing.
benefLts:        The proposed project would help cushion the negative effects
of adjustment, while at the same time improving the
country's capacity to design, implement, and monitor health,
nutrition, sanitation and other community-initiated
programs. It would have direct effects on the nutritional
status of about 150,000 women of child-bearing age, and of
80,000 children under five, and would provide associated
services such as primary health care and basic sanitation.
Results from the LSHS would provide not only a tool for
evaluating the impact of SIMAP's activities, but would also
contribute to further understanding of the extent and depth
of poverty and its correlates. This, coupled with the
implementation of the phase-out plan for SIMAP and the
preparation of an investment plan in the health and
nutrition sectors, would help the GOG in the development of
sustainable medium-term policies and programs in the social
sectors.



vii -
Risks:           The project faces several risks:  (a) that SIMAP may ,;&ccumb
to political pressure and approve sub-projects that &,-e
inconsistent with agreed selection criteria; (b) that
SIMAP's credibility may be eroded as a result of a prolonged
hiatus between its launching and the start of operations;
and (c) that demand for health and nutrition projects may be
limited by the lack of project implementation capacity of
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and grass roots
organizations. These risks would be reduced by: *(a) the
careful selection of technical staff, the development of
well-defined operating procedures and project eligibility
criteria, attention to institutional development, supported
by frequent supervision, annual reviews and technical
assistance; (b) the definition of a core pipeline of sub-
projects from national and local government agencies,
municipalities and international organizations in order for
SIMAP to address some of the most obvious and urgent needs;
and (c) the emphasis on promotion activities during the
project preparation phase including the broadening of
SIMAP's current promotion strategies beyond NGOs and grass
roots organizations to include national and local government
agencies.
Estimated Proiect Costs:             Local    Foreign    Total
------US$ Million-----
A. SIMAP Sub-roiects
Health & Nutrition               3.11      1.26       4.37
Day Care Centers                0.90      0.11        1.01
Water and Sanitation             1.89      1.71       3.60
Technical Assistance to
Participating SAs              0 14      0.06       0.20
Subtotal                   6.04      3.14       9.18
B. SIMAP Institutional Support
Administration                   0.80      0.05       0.85
Equip., Veh. & Maint.           0.03      0.24       0.27
Technical Assistance            0.34      0.41        0.75
Subtotal                   1.17      0.70       1.87
C. LSMS & Morbidity Survey
Salaries                       0.08      0.00       0.08
Equipment                      0.01      0.02       0.03
Operational Exp.               0.07      0.00       0.07
Technical Assistance           0.02 Q    0.10       0.12
Subtotal                   0.18      0.12       0.30
D. Health Sector Policy Devpt.
Technical Assistance           0.07      0.28       0.35
Subtotal                   0.07      0.28       0.35
Total Project Costs -a/    7.46      4.24      11.70
a/  Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are not applicable.
Includes US$750,000 PPP.



v viii -
Pinancine  ln
1JS Mllion          PercenLa,e
IDA                      10.30                 88.0
Government                0.53                  4.5
Beneficiaries             0.57                  4.9
IDB                       030                   2.6
Total
Esttmated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 L992  1993  1994  lI95   1996
--US$ million----------
Annual                           0.75  2.15  2.80  2.75   1.85
Cumulative                       0.75  2.90  5.70  8.45  10.30
Rate of Retur:           Not applicable
IBRD  11683Rl



9OiTM
glJ1EALTH. NUTRITION. AMD WATER_AMID SMIITATION PROJECT
I. M&CROECONOMIC ETTING
i.1       Guyana's economic situation rapidly worsened in the 1975-87 period.
Per capita GDP decreased by 25 percent between 1975 and 1983. Economic growth
averaged only about one percent a year in 1984-87. Economic decline was
associated with a sharp reduction in the terms of trade, underpricing and
rationing of foreign exchange, falling international reserves, rapidly growing
government deficits, and sharply increased levels of domestic and external
public debt. Throughout most of the period 1981-87, Guyana's principal export
commodities (bauxite, sugar and rice), accounting for about one quarter of
GDP, encountered a number of technical, organizational and financial problems
and adverse weather conditions. The resulting decline and subsequent
stagnation of production was compounded by weak external demand and falling
world market prices for these commodities, which account f^r about 80 percent
of Guyana's merchandise export earnings. Reduced foreign exchange earnings
cut into the country's capacity to import inputs needed for production
purposes.
1.2       Public sector finances markedly deteriorated as a result of the
steady erosion of the Central Government's revenue base. The public sector's
overall deficit increased from 43 percent of GDP in 1981 to 52 percent in 1986
(in 1987, as a result of reforms in a number of public enterprises and the
improvement of their financial position, the overall public sector deficit
decreased to an equivalent of 36 percent of GDP). Guyana's external trade and
payments situation remained extremely weak during 1981-87. The main source of
financing of domestic deficits was the accumulation of external payment
arrears as Guyana was unable to meet Its external payment obligations.
1.3       The economic problems of the past two decades have contributed to
the deterioration of Guyana's basic public infrastructure. This deterioration
is most critical in the power sector, sea defenses, water supply, drainage and
irrigation systems, and transport. Health facilities and schools have also
been affected by the lack of investment funds and, for the most part, are in a
serious state of disrepair. An additional effect of the economic decline has
been the emigration of a growing proportion of the better educated work force:
it is estimated that in the 1981-86 period at least 32,000 persons left the
country. Labor market problems reflect the combination of a high number of
vacancies, growing rates of unemployment, decreasing real wages, the influx of,
women into the labor force due to sharp declines in household incomes, and
discouraged worker effects.
1.4       In an effort to address the problems confronting the economy, the
Government, with the assistance of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
the International Development Association (IDA), prepared in 1988 a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) based on the Government's Economic Recovery Program
(ERP). The PFP outlined a package of economic recovery measures aimed at
restoring economic growth, over the medium-term, through the elimination of
internal and external imbalances, and the normalization of Guyana's financial



-2-
relations with external donors. The Government's ERP is being supported by an
IMF Stand-by Arrangement and by an IDA-financed structural adjustment credit
and a related technical assistance credit.
1.5       The Government remains committed to carrying out the economic
ref45rm program initiated in 1989. Following two major devaluations of the
Guyana dollar in April 1989 and June 1990, the official exchange rate was
again adjusted in February 1991 to the level of the parallel market. At the
same time, the Government has raised prices of essential items to allow for
the pass-through of the effects of the devaluation, liberalized the trade
regime considerably, and initiated a divestment program covering the bauxite,
sugar, electric power, air transport and the telecommunication sectors, and a
number of other public enterprises.
1.6       Together with the unification of the exchange rate, second tranche
price increase requirements have increased the price of sugar, rice and
petroleum by as much as 120 percent and are having a substantial impact on
real wages and on the capacity of large segments of the population to cover
their basic needs. In the medium- and long-term, the ERP will have a positive
impact on stimulating the economy, increasing public sector productivity and
raising living standards. In the short-term, however, temporary assistance is
needed to cushion the -ocial costs of the adjustment process.
II. THE SIMAP AGENCY
Origins and Objecttivs
2.1       Government preparation for the Social Impact Amelioration Prograi-
(SIMAP) began in early July 1988, when an agreement was reached on the
substance of tht ERP and the need to execute a social program in tandem with
it. As an initial step, an Emergency Program (EP) was set-up v-ider the
authority of the Ministry of Culture and Social Assistance (MCSA), funded
through the IMF-sponsored Guyana Support Group, to provide up to US$2 million
of short-term relief in the form of supplementary income payments to: (a) old
age pensioners and public assistance recipients; and (b) pregnant and
lactating women, and children under the age of five. Disbursements, in
particular for women and children, were hampered by operational problems.
2.2       In April 1989, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) identified
the need to support SIMAP. This support was channeled through a Technical
Assistance Loan which enabled four Guyanese to visit Bolivia and get a first-
hand exposure to the Bolivian Emergency Social Fuid, and through a project
advance to finance a group of consultants in charge of defining the role and
structure of SIMAP. Consequently, the Government and the IDB agreed to create
an autonomous SIMAP Agency through a 1990 Order under the Public Corporations
Act (see Annex 1). SIMAP's role underwent a shift from its focus of
channeling emergency income supplements for vulnerable groups to a project-
driven focus. Since its creation, over 250 project proposals, mostly in
infrastructure and social services, have been submitted to SIMAP.



-3-
Instituttonal Structure and Staff n
2.3       Under the 1990 Order, the Agency is headed by a six-member Board of
Directors appointed by the MCSA (three members selected among the Ministries
of Finance, Health, Education, Agriculture, and Public Works; one member
selected from the private sector; one from local non-governmental
organizations (NGOs); and one from the University of Guyana). An executive
director has the exclusive authority to submit sub-projects to the Board for
its approval. The day-to-day management of SIMAP is carried out by an
operations manager.
2.4       The six-member Board was constituted in February 1991.  Its
activities in the past months have included the appointment of its chairman,
the definition of the Board's internal rules and regulations, and the approval
of sub-projects to be financed by IDA's Project Preparation Facility (para.
7.3) and IDB's Technical Assistance Loan, and by bilateral donors (European
Economic Community and Canadian Government, most notably). In addition to the
approval of sub-projects, the Board has responsibilities in defining and
overseeing SIMAP's policies, reviewing and approving the annual budget and
action plan, and appointing the executive director.
2.5       At present, SIMAP is operating with ten professional level staff
and ten support staff (see organizational chart in Annex 2). This staff level
is considered appropriate at this stage but would need to be expanded to carry
out the proposed project. The major constraint to SIMAP's administrative and
operational capacity is the Government's cap on salaries that prevents SIMAP
from attracting and retaining qualified staff (para. 7.5).
Fimctions and A2DroS_ch
2.6       The principal functions of the SIMAP Agency are:  (a) targeting of
the most vulnerable groups; (b) sub-project promotion; (c) sub-project
evaluation; (d) sub-project approval; (e) contracting with beneficiary
agencies; (f) disbursement of funds and tracking of their execution; (g)
establishment of information systems to monitor and assess the impact of sub-
project implementation; (h) administration and tracking of funds from
financing agencies; and (i) guaranteeing compliance with procurement
procedures agreed with the financing agencies.
2.7       Sectozal ministries have neither the budgetary nor implementation
capacity or mechanisms in place to respond quickly and efficiently to the
needs of the poor. While SIMAP would receive support from the ministries and
government agencies, and closely coordinate its work at the local level, it
has a comparative advantage in financing small, short-term, technically simple
projects that can reach the intended beneficiaries in a more direct manner.
SIMAP is also more likely to reach a wider and more diverse group of
beneficiaries as a result of its flexibility to channel funds through a wide
network of sponsoring agencies (SAs) that include local government, community
groups, NGOs, churches, grass roots organizations and the private sector.



-4-
III. SOCIAL SECTORS
Social Indicators
Poeulation
3.1       Guyana's population, estimated at 800,000 in 1989, has been declining
in recent years as a result of sustained emigration and a low birth rate (Table
1, Annex 3). Between 1960 and 1986, the population growth rate decreased
steadily from 3.25 to 0.78 percent. It is estimated that during the 1981-86
period at least 32,000 persons left the country for permanent residence abroad,
and the emigration trend has probably intensified in the past five years. The
crude birth rate declined from 33.7 per 1,000 in 1970 to 25.6 per 1,000 in 1989.
As a result, the population's age structure has dramatically changed. Between
1970 and 1986, the 0-14 age group fell sharply as a proportion of the population,
from 47.1 to 36.8 percent (Table 2, Annex 3). The dependency ratio, however,
remains high: in 1985, approximately 23 percent of the population were women of
childbearing age (15-44 years), 13 percent were children under five, and 6
percent were over 60 years.
3.2        Eighty three percent of the population live in the narrow coastal plain
(including Regions I,II,III,IV,V and VI) (Table 3, Annex 3), most of which is
below sea level and accounts for most of the country's agricultural resources.
The population's racial structure is divided between east indians (49.5 percent),
africans (30.5 percent), mixed (14 percent), amerindians (5.5 percent), and other
(0.5 percent). Only about a third of the population is urban of which 70 percent
live in Georgetown (pop. 200,000), and the rest is distributed in Linden (pop.
50,000) and New Amsterdam (pop. 30,000).
3.3       Total fertility rate (TFR) was estimated at 2.9 in 1989, a level
similar to Jamaica and Chile, indicating good levels of education and a
moderately high prevalence in the use of modern contraceptive methods. Life
expectancy at birth is relatively high (63.7 years in 1989) and compares well
with countries in the region with much higher GDP per capita (i.e., Venezuela, 69
years; Brazil, 65 years; and Colombia, 68 years).
Health
3.4       Until the early 1980s, Guyana's health indicators compared favorably
with those of other countries in the region (Table 4, Annex 3). Economic decline
has been accompanied by a deterioration in the provision of health services. As
a result, the crude death rate increased from 7.1 per 1,000 in 1979 to 7.6 per
1,000 in 1986; the infant mortality rate (IMR) increased from 44.5 per 1,000 in
1984 to 49.0 per 1,000 in 1986; and the mortality rate of children one to four
years of age increased from 3.4 per 1,000 in 1984 to 4.4 per 1,000 in 19861.
X Most recent estimates, while not totally consistent with these figures in their order of
magnitude, seem to Indicate an increase in Infant deaths from diarrheal dieease, respiratory disease,
malnutrition and anemia. This increase is compatible with a deteriorating trend in health status.



-5-
Maternal mortality is also on the rise: between 1979 and 1984, the maternal
mortality rate (MMR) increased from 0.4 to 0.6 per 1,000 live births, a 50
percent increase (national figures are not available for more recent periods, but
recorded MMRs at Georgetown Hospital show an increase from 1.6 in 1984 to 2.7 in
1988).
3.5       Although data is incomplete, acute diarrheal disease and acute
respiratory disease, often associated with malnutrition, are the leading causes
of childhood mortality and morbidity (Table 5, Annex 3). Over 90 percent of all
cases of gastroenteritis reported in the 1984-87 period occurred in children less
than five years of age. Other diseases affecting children are malaria, measles2,
and whooping cough. Most of these childhood diseases can be prevented through
adequate immunization or treated with simple and effective measures (e.g., oral
rehydration therapy). The major causes of maternal mortality are toxemia during
pregnancy, and hemorrhage and sepsis during puerperium. Increased pre- and post-
natal care (currently, less than a third of pregnant women receive pre-natal
care) would greatly reduce maternal mortality.
3.6       The Government's failure to address the deteriorating health status is
reflected in low immunization levels. Despite the initiation of the Expanded
Program of Immunization (EPI) in 1985, immunization rates show little
improvement: in 1988, less than 65 percent of all children were fully immunized
against tuberculosis, polio, diphtheria, whopping cough and tetanus (Table 6,
Annex 3). UNICEF and PAHO attribute the poor impact of EPI to the lack of
equipment and supplies to support cold chain requirements as well as to shortages
of trained and motivated staff.
Nutrition
3.7       Protein-Ener            _ Malnutrition.  In 1984, the latest year for which cause-
specific national epidemiological data is available, severe protein-energy
malnutrition was the principal cause of death in infants, and the second cause of
death in children 1-4 years. An analysis of the nutritional status of children
attending maternal and child health clinics in 1987 (representing almost 60
percent of all children under five years of age) was carried out by the Caribbean
Food and Nutrition Institute (CFNI), and indicates that the number of severely
malnourished children under five had almost quadrupled since 19823. In 1987,
about one quarter of all children seen in the survey presented some degree of
malnutrition (Table 7, Annex 3). The available data reveals a deteriorating
trend in the nutritional status of children with unacceptably high prevalence in
specific areas -- in particular, in the peri-urban areas of Georgetown (East Bank
Demerara) and Linden.
3.8       Another 1987 CFNI survey (in which birth weights of 27,016 children
under five years of age were recorded) shows that about 17 percent of children
under five years of age had low birth weights. This figure compares unfavorably
2 In 1987 alone, about 500 meaeles cases (resulting in 43 deaths) were officially identified
nationwide. These deaths could have been easily prevented through adequate ilmunization.
3 However, the difference in classification methods of malnutrition between data from 1987
(NCHS/WHO Standard) and 1982-86 (Gomez Classification) limits the validity of such comparison.



6
with other countries in the region*: Jamaica (8 percent), Venezuela (9 percent),
Brazil (8 percent), and Haiti (17 percent). Low birth weight (birth weight under
2,500 grams) is a good proxy indicator of nutritional status of the mother, as
well as a good predictor of the nutritional status of infants.
3.9       Breastfeeding.  A 1989 study5 shows that, while 95 percent of ali
children were breastfed as neonates, only 18 percent were being exclusively
breastfed after the first month of life, and only 5 percent after the second
month of life (the recommended length of exclusive breastfeeding is four to six
months). This is a disturbing figure considering that most of the water supply
is contaminated, that fuel (for boiling water) is scarce, and that instant
formula is too. expensive for most families. As a result of the early deprivation
of the substantial nutritional and immunological benefits of breastmilk and the
lack of safe water, the incidence of infectious diseases, diarrhea and
malnutrition is on the rise. The targeting of pregnant and lactating women and
weaning children should be a critical element of any health intervention in
Guyana.
3.10      Anemia.  Anemia is a persistent public health problem among all age
groups and sexes. A 1982 study found that almost 75 percent of all pregnant
women, 65 percent of lactating women, and almost half of all pre-school children
had hemoglobin levels below the 11 g/dl stanuard .  Statistics from the Ministry
of Health (MOH) show that, in 1987, about 70 percent of women checked in health
centers had lhemoglobin levels below the cut-off point (Table 8, Annex 3).
Statistics of anemia in school-age children show a decline from 76 percent in
1981 to 61 percent in 1986, but the prevalence remains high (Table 9, Annex 3).
3.11      Nutrition Programs.  The MOH, with support from CFNI, PAHO and UNICEF,
has slowly initiated nutrition interventions as part of its maternal and child
health programs. These interventions include nutrition surveillance, nutrition
education, training of health personnel and information dissemination campaigns.
In addition, the World Food Program (WFP) is providing support to the Ministry of
Education in the implementation of a nationwide school feeding program. The
program covers children attending nursery and primary school. At present, no
supplementary feeding nor nutrition recovery program targeted at children under
the age of three or at pregnant and lactating women is in place. Annex 4
contains a description of the most significant nutrition programs.
3.12      Food Policy.  The National Food and Nutrition Council was re-
established in May 1989 after it ceased to function for a number of years. The
Council comprises membership from relevant ministries and agencies and serves as
an advisory group to the Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education, Environment
and Food Policy (GAHEF) which has been given responsibility for the formulation
World Bank. World Development Report, 1990 (1985 figures).
5 Baseline study carried out for the Unesco Guyana Nutrition Education Project.
6 A.A. Johnson, H.C. Latham, and D.A. Rol. The prevalence and the Etiology of Nutritional
Anemia in Guyana. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 35: 1982, 0. 302.
7 Based on World Health Organization Standards.



-7-
and implementation of policies and programs in food and nutrition. GAHEF, in
close cooperation with the Council, CFNI and PAHO prepared a comprehensive report
in January 1991 whic'. provides the latest available information on the food and
nutrition situation and formulates a broad national food and nutrition policy.
3.13      Among the key findings of the report are:  (a) a deteriorating trend in
nutritional status (despite the fact that a crude assessment of national food
availability for 1984 revealed a sufficiency of energy, protein and fat); and
(b) high levels of anemia, particularly among children and pregnant and lactating
women. At the policy level, the report defines the following priority areas:
(a) reduction in malnutrition in children under five years; and (b) reduction in
the prevalence *. anemia, especially among children and pregnant and lactating
women.
3.14      Crude estimates of national food availability indicate that sufficient
food is available to meet domestic requirements. High food prices, however, limit
food availability at the household level; particularly among the lower
socioeconomic groups and the unemployed who have difficulty acquiring an adequate
food supply to satisfy their nutrition requirements. The recent lifting of price
controls on basic commodities has led to substantial price increases for
commodities such as sugar, rice, salt, edible oil and margarine. Based on
information from Georgetown markets9, the average cost per day to purchase
products ne^essary to cover the minimum daily nutritional requirements of one
person increased from G$33.4 (G$1,002/month) in January 1990 to G$69.8
(G$2,094/month) in March 1991. This represents an increase of more than a 100
percent in 14 months (in current G$). The average cost of food per person
constitutes about 90 percent of the minimum salaryl°. Detailed information on
food production, distribution and pricing is available in the project file.
Sources of Data
3.15      The absence of reliable and up-to-date data to monitor social programs
and to effectively support the activities under the ERP is of great concern to
policy makers and planners in the country. The last income and expenditure survey
was conducted over twenty years ago; the Government has not published a consumer
price index since 1989; and data from the 1990 Population Census is not yet ready
for release. In addition, vital statistics have not been consolidated since 1987.
Recently, several initiatives of varying scope and coverage have been initiated to
help meet Guyana's data needs. The most notable is a UNDP-funded Income and
Expenditure Survey currently scheduled to begin in March 1992. A sample of 7,000
households has been drawn from the urban and rural population of all the ten
regions in the counitry and four survey rounds are scheduled to be implemented. In
the health sector, a joint effort by CFNI, PAHO and the MOH is aimed at improving
data collection from clinic attendance. A UNDP consultant, in collaboration with
the General Registration Office (GRO) is tabulating vital statistics data for the
last three years.
A A National Food and Nutrition Policy for the Cooperative Republic of Guyana. Draft Discussion
Paper prepared by GAHEF with technical support from CFNI and PAHO; 1990.
9 GAHEF carries monthly surveys of prices of basic food staples.
10 The minimum salary was around G$2,300/month in March 1991.



-8-
The Health Care System
3.16      Structure.  The public sector is the main provider of health services.
The MOH and the decentralized regional health services operate 25 hospitals, 104
health centers and 65 health posts and stations accounting for 82 percent of the
2,933 hospital beds and the bulk of outpatient services (Table 10, Annex 3). In a
recent drive towards public sector decentralization", the administration of health
services was delegated to the ten regional governments. Regions are directly
responsible for the operation of hospitals and ambulatory care services in their
jurisdictions, but are subject to technical supervision by the MOH. The central
level of the MOH is responsible for the operation of national hospitals, including
the,Georgetown Hospital and four specialized long-term care hospitals for
geriatrics, psychiatry, children rehabilitation and leprosy. Most of the public
health sector facilities have been affected by the lack of investment funds over the
last decade and are in a serious state of disrepair.
3.17      Health services are divided into five levels of care.  Level I includes
health posts, staffed by a community health worker, functioning at the grass roots
community level.  Level II comprises health centers staffed by medexes , health
visitors 3, midwives, environmental health officers and assistant nurses. District
hospitals, which exist in eight of the ten regions, represent the third level of
care. Level IV comprises regional hospitals which exist in four of the regions and
offers services in four basic specialties (medicine, surgery, obstetrics and
pediatrics). The national referral hospital of Georgetown and the four specialized
hospitals constitute Level V.
3.18      In addition to public sector facilities, there are five private
hospitals, all in Georgetown, with a total of 343 beds. Most of the physicians in
attendance are also employed by the Georgetown Hospital. Two of the private
hospitals are operated by religious organizations and are subsidized by donations
received from affiliated groups overseas. There is a significant but unquantified
number of private clinics offering both general and specialized outpatient services.
3.19      Policy and Objectives.  The 1980 constitution establishes health care as
a right of all citizens and states that the public health care system is the primary
responsible for providing universal health services. The 1970 National Health Plan
is the only stated guideline for the sector. While a Policy Committee was set up to
advise the MOH on the development of policies, its recommendations on sectoral goals
and objectives are vague, and include: (a) the reduction of mortality and morbidity
rates (especially maternal and child mortality); (b) the amelioration of nutritional
status; and (c) the improvement of environmental conditions. This is to be
accomplished by strengthening planning and management, decentralizing the
administration of services, developing manpower and expanding service
infrastructure. The Government is also actively seeking arrangements with the
private sector for the management of public hospitals.
In 1980, a new constitution was proclaimed which divided the country into ten regions and
the capital city of Georgetown, and conferred the administration of health services to the regional
governments.
12 Nurses trained in an 18-month program.
Nurses trained in a 3-year program.



-9-
3.20      Human Resources.  Among the main constraints to the development of the
health system is the short supply of health care personnel (Tables 11 and 12, Annex
3). Shortages are due primarily to low salaries, lack of training facilities and
poor working conditions leading to high attrition rates and emigration. A case in
point of the crisis affecting human resources in the health sector was the three-
month general strike of nurses in 1990. Nurses were demanding a 30 percent salary
increase"' and improved working conditions. In most cases, transportation costs to
and from the work place exceed salaries.                                            &
3.21      Financing.  The financial problem faced by the health sector is as acute
as the manpower problem, and closely related. The critical situation is anchored in
the decline of Guyana's economy. According to IDB estimates, between 1980 and 1988,
public expenditures in health declined by 36 percent in real terms'5. Cuts in
health care expenditures have resulted in severe budgetary restrictions in capital
expenditures. Virtually no funds have been made available in the past decade for
purchase of medical equipment and construction or rehabilitation of infrastructure.
3.22      Coverage.  As reflected in the low immunization levels, the most
important sector issue facing Guyana's health system is the limited coverage of
primary health care services. The negative effects of this situation are most
critical in children over one year of age. A 1983 nationwide survey shows that, at
most, 58 percent of children in the 1-2 age group and 27 percent in the 2-5 age
group were seen at least once in a health facility (Table 13, Annex 3). Low
coverage results from manpower shortages, high transportation costs, lack of
outreach services and shortages of drugs and supplies. A major objective of the
health sector should be to restore public confidence in health services, through
improvements in their accessibility and their quality with a view to increase
utilization to acceptable levels.
Rater SuiWly and Sanitation
3.23      Since 1981, the environmental health sector has suffered serious set-
backs as a result of lack of maintenance of and investment in the water supply, and
the drainage and wastewater systems. As a consequence of this and the poor coverage
and inadequate quality of health services, the incidence of infectious diseases is
on the rise. For instance, according to IDB figures, in the period 1983-88, the
reported cases of infectious hepatitis increased by 33 percent; those of typhoid
fever, by 302 percent; and those of gastroenteritis, by 205 percent.
Water Supply
3.24      According to Government estimates, the existing water supply system
covers approximately 98 and 70 percent of the urban and rural population,
respectively. However, this does not reflect the serious problems pervading the
system. In rural areas, for instance, almost 70 percent of households do not
receive a regular supply of water, despite the fact that a majority have the
necessary infrastructure on their lots. Disinfection, such as chlorination, is
rarely practiced outside the major urban systems. Diesel pumping stations,
particularly in rural areas, are not operational for substantial amounts of time due
14 In 1991, the monthly salaries for nurses and physicians averaged about US$35 and US$80
respectively (the minimum wage is estimated at about US$19).
15 Inter-American Development Bank. Guyana. Socioeconomic Report; November 1990.



- 10
to fuel price increases, lack of maintenance and unavailability of spare parts. As
a result of shortages, pipes have been damaged as people break them in an attempt to
obtain water. This, in turn, has caused contamination by allowing polluted water to
flow back into the pipes. For instance, it is estimated that, in the Georgetown
area, approximately 30 percent of water production is wasted through leakages in the
distribution system and household service connections. As a result of heavy
pumping, ground water subsidence problems have also been observed.
HYMan Excrete Disposal
3.25      Georgetown is the only urban center that has a sewerage system serving
approximately 37 percent of its population. The remaining urban areas are served by
septic tanks or pit latrines and the rural areas use mainly pit latrines. The urban
and rural population served by an adequate system of excreta disposal was estimated
to be 90 and 80 percent, respectively, in 1985. Despite the high coverage, the
status of many septic tanks and latrines is far from being satisfactory.
Furthermore, the Georgetown Municipal Authority reckons that many sewer pipes are
broken and that about 90 percent of the house sewer connections are cracked. At
present, there is a lack of public sanitation blocks in markets and other congested
commercial areas in urban areas. There is also a pressing need to install or
rehabilitate latrines in schools and health facilities throughout the country.
3.26      The current legislative framework establishing institutions in the water
and sanitation sector has developed in an ad hoc fashion over time. As a
consequence, many institutions have emerged with overlapping and potentially
conflicting roles and responsibilities. The Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA),
established in 1972 under the MOH, is the agency responsible for policy
coordination. The Regional Democratic Councils (RDCs) are responsible for the
operation and maintenance of rural water and sanitation systems". The Georgetown
Sewerage and Water Commission and the New Amsterdam Municipal Council provide
services to their respective towns. The Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund Committee
(SILWFC) and the Guyana Mining Enterprises Limited (GUYMINE) provide services free
of charge in the sugar-producing states and towns, and in the bauxite-producing
areas (Linden, Ituci and Bartica), respectively.  In general, the lack of resources
in the sector and inadequate tariff levels (in most instances water rates17 cover
only about 30 percent of operating expenditures) preclude the appropriate operation
and maintenance of the water supply and sanitation systems.
Stormwater Drainage
3.27      Most of the extensive stormwater drainage system was constructed before
independence, during the period of formation and consolidation of the urban areas.
It was later extended following a moderate pattern of urban growth. Georgetown for
example, has approximately 60 miles of main open channels. The operation of the
drainage systems in the northern coastal plain, which lies below sea level at high
tide, is mainly based on an adequate control of the water levels. This type of
la The Local Democratic Organs Act of 1980 which constitutes a policy of administrative
decentralization to the regional level vested the responsibility of operation and management of water
sector facilities to the regional authoritlea-
17 There are seven different vater tariff regimes in the country, ranging from flat rate charges
in the regions, to volumetric charges for the few metered supplies in parts of Georgetown, and to
ratable values of property in most of Georgetown area.



- 11 -
operation requires a permanent maintenance of the drains to preserve their hydraulic
capacity.
3.28      Over the years, several channels in urban areas have become points of
discharge for wastewater and septic tank effluents, as well as dumping places for
refuse. The generalized lack of maintenance has allowed the progressive
deterioration of most channels and ancillary installations (e.g, sluices, culverts)
by erosion or loss of their capacity through silting and outgrowth of plants. These
conditions have created a permanent health hazard and periodic flooding of property
and public places with negative effects on the housing stock and urban
infrastructure. The municipal authorities are responsible for the construction,
operation and maintenance of urban drainage systems. This duty falls normally under
the works department which executes works by direct administration or contracting.
In general, municipal authorities do not have the capacity to do proper operation
and maintenance due to financial and staff constraints.
Sectoral Study and Master Plan
3.29      A study by GUYWA (funded by the IDB) was undertaken in 1989 against a
background of declining standards of water quality, increasing consumer
dissatisfaction and an escalating threat to public health from contaminated water
supplies. The study highlighted the development constraints of decentralization and
underscored an immediate need to strengthen GUYWA to provide focus and direction to
the sector. The study also recommends an assessment of the safe yields of the
ground water aquifers, particularly along the coastal strip. Implementation of the
institutional aspects of the study's recommendations is currently being discussed by
Government. The second-phase of the study (1991-93) is geared to the preparation of
a medium-term master plan for water supply, sewerage and drainage for the greater
Georgetown area and to identifying investment needs in the regions. The proposed
project would complement this initiative by serving the immediate need to direct
scrrce investments in the sector on a priority basis and by targeting poor rural
areas.
The Role of International Donor Agencies
3.30      The health sector receives a relatively small share of the international
assistance channelled to Guyana. According to a UNDP review of development
cooperation, the health sector absorbed only 4 percent of total disbursements in
foreign assistance in 1989. The IDB has been a primary financing source for the
health sector. In 1978, it approved a US41C.9 million project to support prinary
and secondary health care in areas outside Gnorgetown. Recently, it has initiated
financing of a US$31 million project to rehabilitate the Georgetown Hospital,
improve the supply of drugs and strengthen management of the HOH. PAHO and UNICEF,
as agencies specialized in health, are providing support in terms of technical
assistance and project financing in the areas of maternal and child health care,
immunization and AIDS. The European Economic Community (EEC) is currently financing
efforts in the control of malaria and AIDS. There is limaited on-going support for
nutrition programs, apart from the school feeding program financed by the WFP. The
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is financing infrastructure and
social sector sub-projects through a joint administrative effort by SIMAP and the
Canadian Hunger Foundation, an international NGO. In general, efforts by
international donors have not been able to reverse the decline in coverage and
quality of health services or stabilize the nutritional status of the population.



- 12 -
IV. THE ROLE OF NGOa
4.1       What distinguishes Guyana from other countries in the region at a similar
income level is the dearth of NGOs and their lack of experience in implementing
development-oriented programs. Although there is no official register of NGOs, it
has been estimated that about one hundred such organizations operate in the country,
though this figure clearly overstates the number of solid, active organizations
carrying out on-going programs. Most of these are religious, civic or professional
associations. The more active NGOs with national coverage, like the Lions Club,
Rotary Club and some church organizations, tend to focus on small-scale, charity-
related social projects. There are only two international NGOs and a very limited
number of development-oriented national NGOs providing basic health and nutrition
services on aft on-going basis. Where programs exist, they are limited to a small
geographical area (down to the level of a single health clinic) or tend to focus on
a pecific health issue, such as malaria control or family planning.
4.2       This lack of an NGO presence is a result of government policies in the
past. The general policy environment tended to reinforce a reliance on state or
government-controlled cooperatives to address the basic needs of society to the
detriment of local initiative. International NGOs were discouraged from
establishing operations in Guyana. As the current Government moves to liberalize
the economy and allows for a plurality of participants in the development process,
a greater role for grass roots organizations is envisioned. Moreover, the current
economic crisis is causing a drop in the quality and coverage of basic services
which had been provided by the Government in the past. NOOs and other community
organizations will be needed to fill this gap.
V. WONEN'S CONSIDERATIONS
5.1       In 1990, a UNDP-financed survey identified the needs of women in twelve
communities located outside the major cities.  Potable water supply was considered
to be a priority in two-thirds of the communities surveyed. The need for day-care
centers was cited in 40 percent, and nursery schools in 30 percent of the
communities. The survey did not cover nutrition or health care. Nevertheless,
women expressed serious concerns about income generating activities, a concern which
reflects a deteriorating economic situation where women feel unable to provide basic
necessities, such as food, for their families.
5.2       SIMAP has identified women and children as groups particularly vulnerable
to the social costs imposed by the structural adjustment process. There are an
estimated 173,000 women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) which comprises the key
target group for SIMAP sub-projects in health and nutrition. These sub-projects
will provide nutritional supplements, improved primary health care services
(including an expansion in coverage of pre- and post-natal care), and educational
programs (for instance, to improve breastfeeding and weaning practices). Sub-
projects in water supply and basic sanitation, while not targeted to women per se,
will provide important benefits in improved access and quality, responding to one of
the major development needs. The program will also provide financing to expand the
coverage of day-care centers, delivering nutritional benefits to children while



* 13 -
supporting the activities of working women. This is of particular importance given
the growing number of female-headed households.
VI. RATIONAZL FOR IDA INVOLVEHKN-
6.1       IDA's country assistance strategy for Guyana is aimed at supporting the
Government's on-going economic recovery efforts, including its efforts to mitigate
the adverse social impact of the adjustment process. IDA's involvement is
particularly critical at this juncture to arrest the spread of poverty and the
further deterioration of physical facilities, while investing in human capital
through targeted interventions aimed at improving the health and nutrition status of
the poor. The proposed IDA project is consistent with the above strategy. An
infusion of resources in social services, coupled with the strengthening of the
Government's ability to formulate sustainable policies and programs, would improve
the country's capacity to implement the difficult adjustment measures associated
with the ERP, and would complement IDB's financing of SIMAP as well as proposed IDA
operations supporting the bauxite and sugar sectors. The proposed project would
also seek to develop the capacity of grass roots organizations, NGOs and local
government to address the most urgent health needs of the population in a quick and
efficient manner. IDA's support of SIMAP's activities over the short-term would be
carried out in association with assistance to the Government to increase its
capacity to deliver quality health and nutrition services over the medium-term.
6.2       Key lessons learned from previous Bank Group experience in the Caribbean
region, and from the Emergency and Social Fund in Bolivia (ESF), have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project. First, small, less-developed
countries in the Caribbean need intensive technical assistance, as is provided in
this operation, to supplement the very limited administrative and technical manpower
available for project implementation. This is even more critical when considering
that highly qualified leadership and staff was essential to the success of the
Bolivian ESF. Second, alleviation of poverty requires modification of the demand-
driven format of social fund-type projects with greater direction and care in
targeting investments and services to ensure that the neediest groups are benefitted
and that their most urgent needs are addressed. The proposed project incorporates
careful targeting of beneficiaries coupled with an explicit choice of the most
relevant services to address the most urgent needs. Third, financing of investments
must be coordinated with budgeting of funds to cover operating costs to ensure the
flow of benefits from infrastructure investments. Sub-project eligibility and
appraisal criteria in the proposed operation have been designed to address this
matter. Fourth, a simplified procurement process can be successfully applied for
small and widely dispersed sub-projects, provided an effective system for quality
control supplies the necessary checks and balances. Fifth, social fund-type
projects are supervision intensive for Bank Group staff. The proposed project,
through the contract of a procurement auditor and technical assistance to guarantee
sub-project quality and compliance with eligibility criteria, seeks to reduce IDA's
supervision burden 5.
10 For instance, the Bolivia Emergency Social Fund (ESF) and Social Investment Fund (SIF)
projects had, in FY91, supervision coefficients of 22 staff-weeks and 43 staff-weeks respectively
(the average supervision coefficient for Bank Group projects is 11.5 staff-weeks).



- 14 -
VII. THE JI  CT
7.1       The main objective of the proposed project will be to assist the
Government in cushioning the social costs of the adjustment process through the
establishment of an effective mechanism aimed at addressing the basic needs of
the population in a decentralized manner, such as through NGOs, community
groups, and local government agencies. The project will aim to: (a) improve
health and nutrition status over the short-term, in particular of women and
children, through the financing of food supplementation programs, the
rehabilitation and equipping of health care centers and day-care centers, and
the rehabilitation of the water supply, sanitation and stormwater drainage
structures; and (b) assist the Government in the formulation of sustainable
policies and programs in the social sectors over the medium-term.
Summary Project Descrigtion
7.2       The proposed project will consist of four components:  (a) institutional
development; (b) sub-project implementation; (c) establishment of a living
standards measurement survey (LSMS); and (d) health sector policy development.
The institutional development component will complement the IDB's efforts to
assist the Government in the development of administrative and management
procedures, operating criteria for SIMAP and targeting mechanisms. Technical
assistance will also be financed to carry out external evaluations of SIMAP's
impact. SIMAP will be vested with administrative, technical and financial
autonomy and will be responsible for appraising, approving, financing and
monitoring sub-projects. The sub-nroiect implementation component will
primarily address the basic health, nutrition, and water and sanitation needs of
the groups most affected by the country's economic decline, and in particular of
pregnant and lactating women and children under five years of age. Financing
will be provided for: (a) rehabilitation and equipping of primary health care
facilities; (b) nutrition surveillance and education, and food distribution
programs targeted at children and pregnant and lactating women; (c) construction,
rehabilitation and equipping of day-care centers; (d) installation and
rehabilitation of basic water supply facilities and sanitation systems, and
extension and rehabilitation of small drainage systems; and (e) technical
assistance to sponsoring agencies. The LSMS component will entail the
implementation of a household survey to assist Government in the evaluation and
development of policies and programs, with a particular focus on the social
sectors. The health sector policy develoRment componeng will include the
financing of national and international technical assistance to define a medium-
term policy and strategies for the health sector and, on that basis, design a
portfolio of projects for external financing.
7.3       A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$750,000 was approved by
IDA in April 1991 to finance project preparation activities (including short-
and long-term technical assistance), baseline data surveys (in particular a



- 15 -
morbidity/malnutrition survey and a health facilities survey) and pilot sub-
projects. The financing of pilot sub-projects through the PPF is intended to
allow SIMAP to finalize and refine its project cycle mechanisms, improve sub-
project promotion strategies, and establish credibility among NGOs and grass
roots organizations. In October 1991, most PPF activities were completed or in
their initial phase of execution: vehicles and computer equipment had been
procured; technical assistance for management information systems, preparation
of the operations manual, water and drainage systems and nutrition had been
carried out; and twenty one pilot sub-projects with a total cost of about
US$500,000 equivalent were in the start-up phase. In addition, following
delays in the arrival of anthropometric equipment, the baseline morbidity and
malnutrition survey was underway.
Detailed Pro3ect DescrlRtion
Institutional Development Component (US$1.87 million equivalent)
7.4       This component will focus on building the institutional capacity of
SIMAP and will put substantial emphasis on strengthening SIMAP's technical
expertise to target beneficiaries, appraise sub-projects and monitor their
execution, evaluate the reel impact of sub-projects on beneficiary groups, and
maintain transparency in the disbursement of funds and in procurement
activities. To this aim, the project will finance short- and long-term
technical assistance. Specifically, SIMAP will require technical assistance
to: (a) strengthen administrative and accounting systems; (b) expand and
refine the management information system for internal monitoring of the sub-
project cycle; (c) refine the poverty targeting methodology and update the data
base; (d) review the soundness of the unit price data base; (e) assess overall
operational procedures and, on that basis, formulate recommendations for
changes in SIMAP's operations manual; (f) evaluate the implementation of food
supplementation schemes; (g) audit the quality and soundness of sub-projects in
execution; (h) assist in the implementation of SIMAP's phase-out plan; and
(i) monitor and evaluate the impact of sub-projects. A total of 31 man-months
of international technical assistance and 50 man-months of local technical
assistance will be required to complete these tasks. In addition, SIMAP will
contract an international procurement agent to carry out tendering activities
and procurement audits of shopping and direct contracting activities (para. 9.8),
and a private auditing firm to carry out external audits (para. 9.7). Annex 5
defines the technical assistance needs and budget for this component. Draft
terms of reference were finalized during appraisal and are available in the
project file. Vehicles and office technology equipment will also be financed
under this component.
7.5       The proposed project will finance SIMAP's additional staff19,
including one water/sanitary engineer, one civil engineer, two health/nutrition
specialists, and three field officers. During the start-up phase of SIMAP,
this staffing level will assure the technical capacity to evaluate and monitor
sub-projects. Other SIMAP staff (including the Executive Director, the
19 SDA staff are not public sector employees and have short-tenm contracts that reflect the
transitional nature of SIMAP.



- 16 -
Operations Manager and other project officers) will continue to be financed
under IDB's Technical Assistance Loan, At the end of the first year of
implementation, one or two additional positions will be necessary given the
expected increase in the volume of sub-projects in execution. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that SIMAP i1ll be maintained fully staffed with qualified
personnel during the life of the project. The Board of Directors of SIMAP has
recently approved a new salary scale that will allow the Agency to attract and
retain qualified staff. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA the
revised salary scale which was approved by the Ministry of Finance in September
1991. During negotiations the Government agreed on an additional increase of SIMAP
salaries, and assurances were obtained that annual reviews of SIMAP salaries will be
carried out to ensure that salaries remain competitive.  A condition of credit
effectiveness will be that the revised salary scale is implemented (para. 11.3 (a)).
Sub-Project Implementation Component (US$9.18 million equivalent)
7.6       The following types of sub-projects will be eligible for financing under
the proposed project (Annex 6 contains detailed eligibility criteria):
(a) Primary Health Care and Nutrition
(i)     construction, expansion or rehabilitation of district hospitals
(maternal and child health outpatient services only), health
centers and health posts;
(ii)     furniture, equipment and supplies for district hospitals
(maternal and child health outpatient services only), health
centers and health posts;
(iii)     supplies and seed stocks of essential drugs for primary health
care facilities;
(iv)     per diem and transportation costs for health outreach programs;
(v)     monthly take-home food supplements to all children 6 months to
2 years of age, malnourished children (moderate and severe
malnutrition) from two to five years of age, and all pregnant
and lactating women attending health clinics. Two basic
foodstuffs (milk20 and rice) will be distributed. Food will be
purchased weekly by the sponsoring agency from local qualified
suppliers. Food distribution schemes will only be eligible for
financing if closely linked with nutrition surveillance and
education activities.
(vi)     nutrition surveillance activities; and
20 An evaluation study of the potential negative impact of milk distribution on breastfeeding
will be carried ost at the end of the first aix months of project implementation (this will be
coupled With an evaluation of suitable alternatives to milk in the distribution scheme).



- 17 -
(vii)     nutrition education activities, including promotion of breast
feeding.
(b) Day-Care
(i)     construction, rehabilitation, expansion and equipping
(including growth monitoring equipment) of day-care centers;
(ii)     construction, rehabilitation, expansitn and equipping of
kitchens and dining rooms (or serving areas) and food storage
areas;
(iii)     food supplements for all children under five years of age
attending the day care center (beneficiary contributions
should account for at least 50 percent of the value of the
food);
(iv)     nutrition education for parents; and
(v)      early stimulation and education activities.
(c)  Water Supply and Sanitation
(i)     Water Supply:  construction, expansion or rehabilitation of
public water supply system (standpipes) or the extension of
domicile water supply systems to provide a public water
supply system; and rehabilitation and reinforcement of
domicile water supply networks only for collectives of less
than 5,000 inhabitants;
(ii)     Wastewater Sanitation:  constructior. or rehabilitation of
water and sanitation facilities for schools, markets and
public toilets; and construction of pit latrines; and
(iii)     Stormwater Drainage:  construction or rehabilitation of
residential drainage systems in densely populated rural
areas including the rehabilitation or replacement of
associated structures such as culverts.
(d)  Technical Assistance to Participating SAs
SIHAP will contract technical assistance for the preparation of sub-
project proposals that are deemed of sufficient importance,
particularly in sub-projects where the sponsoring agency does not
have access to the expertise needed to carry out the final technical
design work. In selected cases, technical assistance will also be
contracted to assist in sub-project implementation. Primarily,
technical assistance to the sponsoring agencies will be required in
connection with the finalization of designs for, and technical
supervision of, water and storm drainage schemes and health
infrastructure. Technical assistance costs should not exceed three
percent of sub-project costs.



- 18 -
LSMS Component (US$0.3 million equivalent)
7.7       This component will focus on improving the country's data collection
capacity so as to better understand the extent of poverty and the determinants of
living standards. To this effect the project will finance activities aimed at
developing the methodology for an LSMS, carrying out the field work and analyzing
the results. The LSMS will be implemented in conjunction with UNDP's Income an4
Expenditure Survey (IES) and will draw data from a third of IES's 7,000
households sample. Selected LSMS modules, with a particular focus on social
sectors data, will be added to the IES in its second survey round. The proposed
project will finance equipment (including computers and software), operational
expenditures, and technical assistance (10 man-months international and salaries
and per diem of interviewers and survey supervisors).  It is expected that
preparatory activities (development of a questionnaire, preparation of manuals)
will be undertaken with funds from IDA's Technical Assistance Credit. Survey
rounds for the LSMS will be undertaken on three separate occasions, the last one
of which is expected to be finalized in mid-1993.
Health Sector Policy Development Component (US$0.35 million equivalent)
7.8       To ensure sustainability of sub-project benefits, in particular in the
health and nutrition sector, the proposed project will finance technical
assistance 'A0 man-months international; 25 man-months local) to help the
Government define medium-term policies and strategies in the health sector.
Technical assistance will cover the following areas: (a) analysis of the
epidemiological profile, access to and coverage of services and data gathering
and management; (b) analysis of health infrastructure, maintenance systems,
medical equipment, drugs and supplies and transportation; (c) analysis of health
sector financing and expenditures; (d) analysis of organizational and staffing
arrangements and management systems; (e) definition of health priorities and
target groups; (f) definition of key investments in health sector infrastructure,
maintenance guidelines, and arrangements to guarantee the efficient procurement
and distribution of equipment, supplies and drugs; (g) definition of institutional,
staffing and management arrangements in conformity with epidemiological
priorities and with due regard to the country's constraints; (h) definition of
health sector investment program and of associated fiscal and financial
arrangements; and (i) definition of a portfolio of solid projects for external
financing.
7.9       The proposed technical assistance will be carried out within the
framework of SIHAP's phase-out plan (para. 8.2) and with a view to ensuring
sustainability of SIMAP-financed activities. In particular, this component will
aim to define the institutional and financial arrangements, manpower needs, and
operational mechanisms for the development of the sector over the medium-term.
7.10      Environment8l Aspects.  The proposed project does not pose significant
environmental concerns. The safe disposal of hazardous medical waste in health
facilities will be addressed through inclusion of guidelines and norms in sub-
project eligibility and appraisal criteria.



- 19 -
VIII. PROJECT ZIAPLEMNTATION
InstitutioniaLArrangaw=&£
8.1       SIMAP will have overall responsibility for the project, except for the
health sector policy development component to be carried out by the MOH. The
Borrower will pass on the proceeds of the credit in grant form under subsidiary
contractual arrangements satisfactory to IDA, to be signed by the Borrower with
SIMAP. It will be a condition of credit effectiveness that the contractual
arrangement between the Borrower and SIMAP has been duly signed and ratified
(para. 11.3 (b)). SIMAP's operations manual (including operational and
organizational structure, sample multi-party contracts with sponsoring agencies,
manuals for promotion, evaluation and approval of sub-projects, administration
and information systems, and a methodology for targeting and impact evaluation)
was reviewed by IDA during the appraisal mission. The operations manual has been
finalized and approved by SIMAP's Board, and is satisfactory to IDA in form and
in substance.
8.2       SIMAP's role as an emergency institution providing stop-gap financing
for small-scale projects to assure essential investments in infrastructure and
social services is only justifiable in the short-term and in conjunction with
the economic adjustment process. SIMAP has a project-driven approach which is
ill-suited to function itn the medium-term when efficient public sector policies
will need to be develop'ed. To assure the sustainability of projects implemented
by SIMAP and the transfer of SIMAP's experience to line ministries, it is
critical that a dated plan of action to phase-out SIMAP be developed. Annex 7
contains the rationale and conceptual framework for the phasing-out of SIMAP.
Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA a dated plan of action to
phase-out SIMAP and gradually integrate its activities into existing government
r agencies. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the proposed
phase-out plan will be implemented in accordance with the agreed objectives and
time frame.
Implo ontat ion hrannements
Promotion and Targeting
8.3       SIMAP'S Promotion Strategy.  The first step in the sub-project cycle
involves stimulating demand from sponsoring agencies in order to generate a
sufficient pipeline of sub-projects. These promotion efforts are the
responsibility of the project officers and field officers. SIMAP has undertaken
a campaign to inform sponsoring agencies of SIMAP's program and criteria for
sub-project selection. Meetings with a wide range of institutions at the
regional level are followed up by visits of SIMAP project officers to assist in
completing the sub-project proposal forms.
8.4       SIMAP has adopted a complementary approach of promoting sub-project
proposals from institutions with experience in specific types of projects and
with the ability to channel solid sub-project proposals in the short-term.
SIMAP has approached an international NGO to support and expand its on-going



- 20 -
program in malaria control, and encouraged GAHEF to design a pilot project in
rural latrines that could be replicated and extended to a wide number of rural
communities.
8.5       Despite these promotion efforts, SIMAP expects that, in some cases,
poorer communities and weaker sponsoring agencies will find it difficult to
translate needs into concrete project proposals. In such cases, SIMAP will
finance technical assistance, including short-term contracts with private
engineers and architects, to draw up the final designs needed for sub-project
appraisal (para. 7.6 (d)). This will be particularly important in the design of
water supply and drainage systems, and health infrastructure for poor, rural
communities.
8.6       As a result of SIMAP's promotion strategies, about 250 sub-project
proposals have been submitted to the Agency. Within the framework of the
project list proposed for the Consultative Group Meeting of July 1991,
substantial efforts have been made to identify sub-projects that comply with
SIMAP's stated objectives and eligibility criteria. SIMAP has identified a
portfolio of solid sub-projects to be implemented during the first year of
execution of the proposed operation. Prior to negotiations, SIMAP submitted to
IDA a list and profiles of sub-projects suitable for financing during the first
year of implementation and were found to be acceptable to IDA.
8.7       Targeting of Beneficiaries.  Prior to appraisal, each sub-project will
be screened to guarantee that it addresses SIMAP's target beneficiaries. First,
its geographical location will be evaluated against regional level poverty maps.
These maps will allow SIMAP to determine target funding levels per region.
Second, its specific location will be considered and evaluated against
indicators available at the village level. To the extent possible, these
indicators will be tailored to the type of sub-project (i.e., infant mortality
rates will be used to prioritize health projects; nutrition projects will use
malnutrition levels).  The regional and village level indicators will steer
SIMAP's promotional strategy to stimulate demand and assist SIMAP in determining
priorities for the flow of sub-projects through the sub-project cycle. Third,
during the appraisal phase visit, SIMAP staff will verify the level of need of
the population and the fit between SIMAP's targeting criteria and intended
beneficiaries.
8.8       To orient the poverty targeting strategy, SIMAP has received support
from UNDP in developing a poverty targeting methodology. The UNDP-financed
study, conducted in 1990 and updated in 1991, used all available information
sources to assess the general level of poverty through the analysis of key
indicators in health, education, housing and employment. The study generated a
multiple deprivation index (MDI) at the village level. SIMAP is using this
information to develop a needs-based ranking system which will assign an
indicator of poverty to each sub-project. Further refinements to this data base
have been possible with the incorporation of data from the PPF-financed
Morbidity and Malnutrition Survey and from the updating of vital statistics
undertaken by the GRO. Initial results of both efforts are expected at the



- 21 -
beginning of 1992. The Government's targeting capability will be further
enhanced with the implementation of the LSMS. SIMAP's poverty targeting
mechanisms and data base have been finalized and are satisfactory to IDA.
sub-Proxect ADRELaLsq
8.9       Each sub-project which falls within established project categories of
health, nutrition, water supply and sanitation, and serves the target
*beneficiary population will then undergo an appraisal process. The SIMAP
project officer will conduct a site visit to verify location, scale and
beneficiary population. The officer will prepare an evaluation report
summarizing the visit's findings. The report, including any supporting
documents, will be presented for review to an internal panel comprised of key
SIMAP professional staff. Finally, the sub-project will be submitted to the
Board of Directors for its official approval. The appraisal process has three
facets: technical, financial and institutional.
8.10      Technical Appraisal.  The technical appraisal will review the
following aspects:
(a)  that the sub-project proposal includes all the necessary
components required for its implementation (e.g., that nutrition
sub-projects include growth monitoring, or that the physical
rehabilitation of a health center also considers the purchase or
replacement of basic equipment and medical supplies);
(b)  that the sub-project proposal is consistent with sector policy
and norms (e.g., that the food supplements considered in a
nutrition project satisfy protein and calorie guidelines, or that
engineering and construction standards are followed for
infrastructure projects);
(c)  that the infrastructure, equipment and other inputs are
consistent in scale and content with the proposed activities and
benefits of the project;
(d)  that the implementation of the proposed sub-project is
technically feasible (e.g., that in a nutrition sub-project the
proposed mode of food distribution is consistent with local food
availability and operational capacity of the health or day-care
facility, or private distributor); and
(e)  that the necessary counterpart contributions from the sponsoring
agency or the community are in place, or will be upon sub-project
implementation (e.g., in rural latrine projects, that provisions
for labor inputs from beneficiaries are agreed upon by the
community, or, in sub-projects involving health and day-care
services, that sufficient staff exists or will be contracted by
the sponsoring agency to guarantee sub-project implementation).



- 22 -
8.11      Einancial Aggraisa1.  The financial appraisal of a sub-project proposal
will first verify that the proposal contains only expenditure categories allowable
for financing under SIMAP guidelines. SIMAP will then review unit costs and
compare them with standard costs in its price data base. SIMAP has established an
initial unit cost data base, which includes costs for food supplements, medical
supplies, labor, infrastructure and other materials, and is being updated on a
periodic basis (e.g., bi-weekly for food prices, monthly for other materials
excluding medical supplies, and quarterly for medical supplies). This data is
being expanded with information from GUYWA on equipment and materials for water e
and sanitation sub-projects. The price data base has been finalized and is
acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, atisurances were obtained that SIMAP shall
maintain at all times a reference price data base satisfactory to IDA.
8.12      Institutional Appraisal.  The institutional appraisal process will
assess the sponsoring agency's capacity to manage sub-project implementation
and to assure that potential benefits are realized. To gauge institutional
capacity, SIMAP will review:
(a) the experience of the sponsoring agency in the community or
general geographic area of the sub-project;
(b) the experience of the sponsoring agency in implementing
similar types of projects;
(c) the history, legal status, and quality of personnel of the
sponsoring agency;
(d) criteria and methodology used to select beneficiaries; and
(e) the forms and degree of participation in sub-project
identification, preparation and implementation of the
community in general and of target beneficiaries in
particular.
8.13      Sub-Project Sustainability.  Two major project components, health
sector policy development and implementation of the LSMS, are designed with a
view to ensuring sustainability of SIMAP benefits over the medium-term. This,
coupled with the implementation of the plan to phase-out SIMAP and define the
transfer mechanisms of SIMAP activities and responsibilities to line
ministries and agencies, will assist the Government in the development of a
solid investment program in the health sector once SIMAP's stop-gap financing
ends. In addition, each individual sub-project will be appraised for
continuity of its benefits after the phase-out of SIMAP. In water and
sanitation sub-projects, SIMAP will ensure that institutional responsibility
for collection of user fees and the operation and maintenance of these systems
is clearly defined. SIMAP will also review arrangements for training
beneficiaries to operate and maintain lower-technology water and sanitation
systems. For projects in primary health care, SIMAP will assess the
commitment of central, regional, and local governments or NGOs to finance the
long-term recurrent costs of these services. It is assumed that the MOH, with
funding from IDB's Health Care II Project, will address problems in the supply



- 23 -
of essential drugs and medical supplies in the medium-term, with SIMAP
responding to emergency shortfalls over the next three years.
8.14      It will be more difficult to ensure sustainability of nutrition
supplement programs given the limited operating budget that most sponsoring
agencies have at present. Due to the importance of realizing a measurable
impact on nutritional status, SIMAP will offer three years of renewed
financing for sub-projects with a feeding component, with an annual
performance review to justify annual extensions. At the end of four years of
project implementation, a follow-up to the Morbidity and Malnutrition Survey
will be carried out to assess the impact of the program on nutritional status.
Concurrently, and as part of SIMAP's phase-out plan and the implementation of
the health sector policy development component, the Government will review
ongoing programs and existing institutional capacity and, on that basis,
formulate a medium-term plan for the nutrition sector. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the Government will issue, not later than December 31,
1993, a nutrition policy statement defining policies and programs designed to
meet the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women and children under
the age of five over the medium-term; and to start the execution of a specific
plan of action to put into effect such policies and programs according to a
timetable satisfactory to IDA.
Sub-Project Implementation and Supervision
8.15      Sub-Project Implementation.  Upon approval of a sub-project, a
multi-party contract will be signed between SIMAP, the sponsoring agency and
the selected contractor (where appropriate). In the case of infrastructure
sub-projects where civil works are executed by a private contractor,
performance guarantees will be sought, including performance bonds. In cases
where guarantees can not be obtained (because of the size of the contractor),
tranching of payments will be carried out where advances will be made against
a well defined program. As a further assurance of quality execution, SIMAP
will withhold five percent of each infrastructure contract during a specified
period to insure against defects and liabilities.
8.16      Prior to the initiation of sub-project execution, the sponsoring
agency will participate in a briefing by SIMAP on the general requirements of
sub-project implementation, including accounting and record keeping,
procurement, supervision arrangements, and disbursement systems.
Disbursements will be made in tranches, according to progress in
implementation. SIMAP project officers will undertake the monitoring of sub-
project implementation to ensure that all activities proposed and appraised
are carried out within schedule and that disbursements are in line with
expenditures incurred in sub-project execution. This progress will be
verified by site visits from SIMAP project officers, and confirmed by the
supervisor (para. 8.17).
8.17      Supervision.  While SIMAP project officers will provide important
oversight of the project implementation process, they will not have the
capacity to provide on-going technical supervision given the geographical
dispersion and number of sub-projects. Therefore, to assure quality in the
execution of sub-projects, SIMAP will contract external supervisors for sub-
projects that are of sufficient scale or technical complexity or, by their



- 24 -
nature, require more intense technical supervision. For instance, in almost
all civil works contracts, SIMAP will finance a site supervisor who will be
responsible for co-signing the verification of works reports submitted by
SIMAP project officers. The cost of external supervision and of technical
assistance to support sponsoring agencies in the finalization of sub-project
proposals (para. 7.6 (d)) will be included in the total sub-project costs, and
will not exceed three percent of these costs. SIMAP will enter into a
separate contract involving SIMAP, the sponsoring agency and the supervisor.
In cases of specialized civil works, such as water and sanitation systems,
SIMAP will use consulting engineering firms to carry out technical supervision
in the field. For health and nutrition projects, the framework for
supervision will vary according to the needs of the sub-projects. SIMAP will
have an on-going technical supervision contract with GAHEF to spot-check the
quality of the entire portfolio of SIMAP nutrition sub-projects. In addition,
for sub-projects that include the distribution of food through health centers,
an independent local community leader or organization could be appointed to
verify the quality of the program on an on-going basis.
Sector Coordination
8.18      SIMAP will function autonomously from line ministries and other
governmental agencies, but will coordinate its activities with them. In
setting evaluation criteria, SIMAP has incorporated technical norms of the
MOH, GAHEF, and GUYWA. As part of the appraisal process, SIMAP will submit
the sub-projects for technical review to the State Planning Secretariat and to
the corresponding sector ministry or agency. This review process will ensure
that there is no duplication with existing services, compliance with sector
norms and standards, and no double financing of expenditures.  To make the
review process as agile as possible, the line ministries will designate a
SIMAP liaison person, and coordinating agreements between SIMAP and the sector
agency will be made specifying responsibilities on both sides and setting a
maximum time for the review process. Any technical observations made by the
State Planning Secretariat, the line ministries and sector agencies will be
included in the presentation of sub-projects to SIMAP's Board of Directors.
Information Mana2ement. Monitoring and Evaluation
8.19      InformatioXi Management.  In order to efficiently track SIMAP
activities, a computerized management information system has been established.
Such an information system is essential to build transparency in the process of
selecting sub-projects and to enable efficient tracking of a large number of
relatively small sub-projects. This system will allow for internal monitoring of
basic elements of SIMAP operations, including fund raising, poverty targeting,
the sub-project cycle, and, in part, the impact of SIMAP.
8.20      Annex 8 includes a complete list of indicators for the management
information system. Guidelines for the implementation of the system are
available in the project file. Key indicators to be reviewed by IDA during
project execution pertain to the following areas:



- 25 -
(a) efficiency of SIMAP operations: number and cost of sub-projects
approved per week, number of sub-projects in execution, amount of
monthly disbursements, rate of delays in sub-project execution,
and administrative costs as a percentage of total SIMAP budget;
and
(b) efficiency of SIMAP sub-projects: number of physical units
completed, such as health posts rehabilitated or food supplements
delivered, number of beneficiaries, geographical distribution of
sub-projects, cost per unit delivered and cost per beneficiary.
8.21      Monitor-in  and Evaluation.  SIMAP will complement its internal
monitoring system with a series of external monitoring studies. These studies
will evaluate SIMAP's performance in specific areas and monitor the impact of
its interventions, allowing adjustments to be made where necessary. In August
1991, SIMAP contracted GAHEF to conduct a nationwide Morbidity and
Malnutrition Survey. The survey, to be carried out in two rounds (the first
round has just been initiated with PPF funding; the second round is planned
for the fourth year of the proposed project), will provide data to measure
SIMAP's impact on health status. In addition to the Morbidity and
Malnutrition Survey, technical assistance funds will allow SIMAP to contract
local and international consultants on a short-term basis to assess the
quality and impact of the various categories of SIMAP sub-projects, and to
evaluate specific aspects of the SIMAP program. Subjects expected to be
covered by these external studies include a review of the quality of civil
works, a beneficiary assessment of SIMAP sub-projects, an analysis of the
mechanisms for cost recovery in water and sanitation sub-projects, and other
short-term studies to analyze the adequacy of coverage, project selection
criteria, supervision procedures and other aspects relating to the efficiency
and effectiveness of SIMAP operations.
8.22      Monitoring of the proposed project will be further enhanced with
the implementation of the LSMS. Results from the LSMS will not only provide a
tool for evaluating the impact of SIMAP's activities but will also contribute
to further the understanding of the extent and depth of poverty and its
correlates. This will assist Government in the development of sustainable
medium-term policies and programs, in particular in the social sectors.
Review by IDA
8.23      SIMAP will have the authority to approve and implement sub-projects
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent that fall within agreed eligibility
criteria without prior review by IDA. IDA will do ex-ante review of sub-
projects that either: (a) have a total cost of more than US$50,000
equivalent; (b) are consistent with SIMAP's objectives but are not covered in
the eligibility criteria; or (c) are the first three sub-projects in each sub-
project category. IDA will do ex-post review of all sub-projects between
US$25,000 and US$50,000 equivalent. IDA will do random ex-post review of sub-
projects under US$25,000 equivalent. Final terms of reference for all
technical assistance will also be subject to IDA's review prior to selection
of consultants.



- 26 -
8.24      During negotiations it was agreed that SIMAP will also submit to IDA:
(a) monthly reports on the number and nature of sub-projects approved for
financing (not later than two weeks after the completion of each month); (b)
quarterly reports on its activities, including promotion, targeting and impact
evaluation (January 31, April 30, July 31, and October 31 of each year); (c) an
annual report on April 30 of each year on the overall execution of the project.
SIMAP's annual review will be an essential instrument in the process of planning
and implementation of project activities, and will constitute the key monitoring
tool for the performance of SIMAP. In addition, the review process will set
priority actions to ensure sustainability of SIMAP sub-project activities, in
conformity with SIMAP's phase-out plan and with due regard to the project's
objectives of setting medium-term policies and programs in the health sector.
IDA supervision missions will be scheduled to coincide with the annual reviews.
Annex 9 includes specific targets to be reached and the review criteria which
will govern the annual review during the project implementation period. In
addition, during negotiations it was also agreed that a mid-term project review
will take place no later than December 31, 1994, in which the Government, SIMAP,
and IDA will exchange views with regard to progress in project implementation.
8.25      In comparison to similar social fund-type projects in other countries,
the proposed project will entail less supervision requirements for IDA staff as
a result of: (a) having no cofinancing administered by IDA (in contrast to the
Bolivia ESF and SIF projects); (b) contracting out procurement activities (para.
9.8); and (c) the lower volume of financing resulting in relatively fewer
projects to review. In addition, technical assistance financed under the
proposed project is designed to lower supervision requirements for IDA staff by
strengthening control over the soundness of SIMAP's operational and
administrative procedures and over the quality of sub-project implementation.
IX.  PROJECT COSTS. -FICING, DISBUlRSEMTS AND PROCUREMENT
Prolect Costs
9.1       The proposed project will be carried out over four years; it is
defined to include the first two years of SIMAP's sub-project financing
commitments (mid-1992 through mid-1994), the first four years of SIMAP's
administrative expenses (mid-1992 through mid-1996), and the costs of
establishment of an LSMS and the development of a policy framework for the
health sector. The total cost of the proposed project is US$11.7 million
equivalent. Foreign costs represent about 36 percent of the total. Since
specific sub-projects still need to be identified, no contingencies have been
calculated: any increase in the expected average sub-project cost (estimated at
US$30,000 equivalent) will be reflected as a reduction in the number of sub-
projects executed. The credit provides for the financing of SIMAP staff given
the fact that SIMAP has a limited life-span, and SIMAP personnel has short-term
contracts that will be terminated once SIMAP is phased out. For the same
reason, and to permit efficient project execution given the GOG's present
financial constraints, administrative costs will be financed over the life of



- 27 -
the credit. The GOG will finance part of the administrative costs of SIMAP
(essentially salaries of support staff). A summary of project costs is shown in
Table 9.1 (Annex 10 contains a detailed cost table).
Table 9.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT *I
Local   Forelgn    Totl     Loc     Foreign    Total      %        %
-      GUYS Million-        -      US$ MUllon-         Foreign    So*
Exchange   Coa
,SI .',* yot'&v<.-,  t.;:':.' : :",, a WMA  .U.9r......
Heth & Nutrton        373.20    151.20    524.40    3.11      1.26     4.37      28.8     37.4
DayCare Centers       108.48    12.72    121.20     0.90     0.11      1.01      10.5      6
Water and Sanitation  226.80   205.20    432.00     1.89      1.71     3.60      47.5     30.8
Tochnroal Aasnce       18.80     7.20     24.00     0.14      0.06     0.20      30.0      1.7
to Paitolpatng MAe
Subtotal          725.28    376.32   1101.60    6.04      3.14     9.18      34.2     76.5
Administration         96.00     6.00    102.00     0.80      0.05     0.85       5.9      7.3
Equip., Veh. & Maint    3.60    28.80     32.40     0.03      0.24     0.27      88.9      23
Tonloal Asistance      40.50    49.50     90.00     0.34      OA1      0.75      55.0      6.4
Subtotal          140.10    84.30    224.40     1.17      0.70     1.87      37.6     16.0
2 X '  Y t~~tS:.:  os:&;: {: . ' :-::  '   "'. i.    ',   :,.   g   :': ;:'  S   S  :''.''g' .'':   c,"  ''R'';  .;. . ' .  's...... . &...
Sa,rdes                 9.60     0.00      9.60     0.08      0.00     0.08       0.0      0.7
EquIpment               0.72     2.88      3.60     0.01      0.02     0.03     80.0       0.3
OperatIonal Exp.        8.40     0.00      8.40     0.07      0.00     0.07       0.0      0.6
Technical Asaistance    2.88    11.52     14.40     0.02      0.10     0.12      60.0      1.0
Subtotl1           21.60    14.40     36.00     0.18      0.12     0.30      40.0      25
Health~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... Sec.   .......pL 
Technical Asdanco       8.40    33.60    42.00      0.07      0.28     0.35      80.0      s0
Subtotal            8.40    33.60     42.00     0.07      0.28     0.35      60.0      3.0
: s.<   sodeahr -1404,0it ''w N"0                          W       i0W
1 Exclusive of taxes and duSs, which are not applicable
Includes US$750,000 PPP



* 28 -
Znanln_laa
9.2       The proposed IDA credit of US$10.3 million represents about 88 percent
of total project costs. Counterpart requirements will be met by the Government
and sponsoring agencies. The Government will contribute equipment and supplies
(e.g., scales, growth charts, vaccines) that will be supplied on a grant basis
by PAHO and UNICEF, and salaries of SIMAP support staff. Beneficiary
communities will provide contributions of labor or materials. The only
anticipated cofinancing arrangement is with the IDB for the financing of SIMAP's
administrative costs and technical assistance. The proposed IDA credit will
finance staff to manage health, nutrition, and water and sanitation sub-
projects, and some additional administrative costs generated by these sub-
projects. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
will provide counterpart funds as assigned in the project financing plan
presented in Table 9.2 (see also Annex 11).
TABLE 9.2: FINANCING PLAN
-US$ Mllions
IDA                          10.30
Govemment                    0.53
Beneficlajies                0.57
IDB                          0.30
Total                     1L1O
Cofinanciig Arrangements
9.3       As indicated in the project financing plan (Table 9.2), the proposed
project is being cofinanced by IDB on a parallel basis. The cofinancing
represents IDB's contribution to support part of administrative costs (including
staffing costs) and technical assistance for an estimated amount of US$300,000.
IDB's proposed grant of US$2.8 million will also finance sub-projects in the
areas of infrastructure and vocational training. Given the different nature and
objectives of sub-projects to be financed under the IDB grant, those funds have
not been included in the financing plan. On the basis of the limited absorptive
capacity of the SIMAP Agency and of the sectors to be financed under the
proposed project, no additional cofinancing is being sought at this time.
DLLburM8nu
9.4       The proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed over a period of four years, to
be completed by June 30, 1996 (Closing Date). Sub-project activities supported by
the Credit are expected to be completed by December 31, 1995. The expected
disbursement profile i's consistent with similar social fund-type projects in the
region. Annex 12, Table 1 contains the estimated disbursement forecast.



- 29 -
9.5       Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
expenditure: (i) 95 percent against eligible expenditures of health, nutrition, and
water and sanitation sub-projects; (ii) 80 percent against eligible expenditures of
day-care center sub-projects; (iii) 100 percent of the costs for institutional
support; (iv) 100 percent of the costs for implementatior. of the LSMS; and (v) 100
percent of the costs for the development of health sector policy (see Annex 12,
Table 2). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the aggregate amount
of expenditures on food items will not exceed US$2.58 million equivalent (or 25% of
total credit amount) over the life of the project.
9.6       Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for gocds and
services with a contract value of US$50,000 equivalent or more will be supported by
full documentation. Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, disbursements
against expenses not undertaken by contract, and all disbursements under sub-
projects will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for which
supporting documents will be maintained by SIMAP and will be available for review by
IDA staff. A Special Account in US dollars will be opened in the Bank of Guyana,
with an initial deposit of US$800,000, corresponding to about four months of
expected expenditures.
*ccouMts and Auditing
9.7       SIMAP's accounts will be available for inspection by IDA.  Annually
audited accounts will be submitted to IDA no later than six months following the
end of SIMAP's fiscal year. The annual audit reports will include a Statement
of Source and Application of Funds, a separate opinion on SOEs, a separate audit
report on the project's special account, an opinion of compliance, and a
management letter. An opinion on compliance with procurement arrangements
specified in credit documents, and on the appropriateness of procurement
documentation, will be included in the audit of SOEs. The audit will be
performed by a private firm of independent auditors acceptable to IDA and under
terms of reference approved by IDA.
procurement
9.8       Procurement procedures in the country have been reviewed by IDA and
found generally acceptable and not in conflict with IDA procurement policies and
guidelines. However, lack of skilled human resources in procurement is a
persiste.it problem as a result of high rate of emigration of the most qualified
personnel. During negotiations it was agreed that SIMAP will contract a
procurement agent acceptable to IDA to carry out procurement activities,
including: (a) the preparation of bidding documents, advertising and evaluation
of bids for works to be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB), and for
goods to be procured under international shopping procedures; and (b) auditing
of procurement activities carried out through direct contracting or local
shopping procedures. Draft terms of reference for the procurement agent have
been prepared. Procurement of goods, works and consultant services will be
carried out in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. A condition of
credit effectiveness will be that the procurement agent, acceptable to IDA, has
been employed (para. 11.3 (c)).



- 30 -
Table 9.3: Summary of Proposd Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millon .qulvatent)
IC  ~          atbi                                           ___
Pfoleot Element
1. Works
1.1 Health Facilities                                          0.35             0.40                                 0.75
(0.35)          (0.38)                                (0.71)
1.2  Day Care Centers                                          0.10             0.08                                 0.18
(0.08)          (0.05)                                (0.13)
1.3 Water Supply                              1.60             0.20                                                  1.80
(1.60)          (0.10)                                                 (1.70)
1.4 Sanitation                                                 0.30             0.20                                 0.50
(0.20)          (0 10)                                (0.30)
1.5 Wastewater Drainage                       0.70             0.40                                                  1.10
(0.70)           (0.30)                                                (1 00)
2. Goods
2.1 Medioal Equip.,
Supplies & Drugs                                         1.32                                                  1.32
(1.12)                                                (1.12)
2.2  Equipment, Furniture
& Suppiles                                               0.30             0.08                                 0.38
(0.30)          (0.06)                                (0.38)
2.3 Office Tech. & Veh.                                        0.12                                                  0.12
(0.12)                                                (0.12)
2.4 Food                                                       1.58             1.00                                 2.58
(1.45)          (0.90)                               (2.35)
3. Consultancies
3.1  Suppoul to                                                                0.20                                 0.20
Sponsoring Ag.                                                         (0.20)                               (0.20)
3.2 Technical Aseistance                                                       0.92             0.15                1.07
(0.92)                               (0.92)
4. Salarde& Oper. Exp.
4.1  SIMAP Ag.                                                                 0.65             0.15                0. c0
(0.50)                               (0.50)
4.2  Survey*                                                                   0.15                                 0.15
(0.14)                               (0.14)
S. Mlsoellaneous
5.1  PPF Refinanoing                                                           0.75                                 0.75
(0.75)                               (0.75)
g f  *                                                         :' *  .  :.    ff:  -   .................... , .-. gfi . g ..................... ,......   ........  ;:...
Total Costs                                2.30             4.67             4.43             0.30               11.70
(2.30)           (4.02)          (3.98)                              (10.30)
Note: Pl;ures In parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA credIt.
Coflnanced In parallel witb the later.Amerecan Development Bank
Consultancy vIces hould be procured In ccordence witb World Bank. Guidelines:
Use otConaultantu by World Dank Borrowera and by the Wrld  sanks xBaecuting Aency(Washlngton, D.C, AuSuat 191)..
sl Includes Internatlonal sbopping and local sbopping
b/ Includes USS2.26 mIllIon agsrepte of works nd goods procured under direct contractIng procedures
cl Caonced by the Inter.AmerIcan Development Bank



- 31 -
9.9       For goods and works of sub-projects, the sponsoring agencies will be
responsible for procurement. Prior to signing the sub-project contract, SIMAP
(or the procurement agent designated by SIMAP) will assure that procurement
procedures followed are in compliance with agreed guidelines. For goods to be
purchased under the institutional development component through international
shopping procedures (vehicles and office technology), SIMAP will be responsible
for procurement.
9.10      Standard bidding documents for the procurement of works through LCB
procedures will be used to simplify both the reviewing and the bidding
processes. During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the use of standard
bidding documents acceptable to IDA for the procurement of works through LCB.
The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 9.3. Annex
13 shows a procurement timetable (Project Implementation Schedule) indicating
timing of procurement actions, as well as annual contractual payments.
Civil Works
9.11      Contracts for works (including construction/rehabilitation of health
centers and posts and day-care centers, and extension/rehabilitation of water
and sanitation systems) are expected to total about USS4.3 million equivalent
and to average about US$30,000 equivalent, with the biggest single project
costing no more than US$200,000 equivalent. A very large proportion of civil
works will be small in terms of contract value (below US$30,000 equivalent) and
spread across various parts of the country. For contracts of more than
US$50,000 equivalent, LCB will be carried out using pre-qualification of
bidders. For contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.4 million equivalent, contracts will be awarded on the basis of
price quotations obtained from at least two qualified contractors. In remote
locations where no more than one qualified contractor is available, the
sponsoring agencies could engage in direct contracting up to an aggregate amount
for all sub-projects of US$0.7 million equivalent. The contractor will have to
agree to SIMAP standard rates.
Goods
9.12      Contracts for medical eauiRment. sunRlies and drugs under sub-projects
are expected to total about USS1.32 million equivalent. Medical equipment,
supplies and drugs will be purchased through international/local shopping
procedures (up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 equivalent for local
shopping) with offers from at least three qualified suppliers.
9.13      Contracts for equipment. furniture and supplies to be purchased under
sub-projects are expected to total about USS380,000 equivalent. A very large
proportion of the contracts will be small (averaging about US$4,000 equivalent)
for sub-projects spread across various parts of the country. Local shopping
procedures with offers from at least three qualified suppliers will be used. In
cases where no more than one quotation from a qualified supplier can be obtained
(remote areas), the sponsoring agency could engage in direct purchasing up to an
aggregate amount of US$80,000 equivalent. Contract prices will not exceed SIMAP
standard prices.



- 32 -
9.14      Contragts for office technology eguipment and vehicles to be purchased
by SIMAP under the institutional development component are expected to total
about US$_12_.0000 equivalent.  Given this small amount and the diversity of goods
to be purchased under this component, it will not be practical to combine these
goods in large packages to be procured under ICB procedures. SIMAP will use
international shopping procedures with offers from at least three qualified
suppliers.
9.15      Contracts for food to be purchased under sub-projects (the nature of
this food is defined in the sub-project eligibility criteria) are expected to
total about &jSS2.58 million equivalent. Food will be purchased at the local
level by the sponsoring agency on a weekly basis and quantities of each purchase
will be small. In order to promote competition and guarantee the lowest prices,
SIMAP will encourage the packaging of contracts with different sponsoring
agencies in the same area and contracts will be made for a minimum period of
three months. SIMAP will determine, in the appraisal process, the presence of
qualified suppliers in the sub-project area. Local shopping procedures, with
offers from at least two suppliers, will be used to procure food in areas where
more than one supplier is available. Direct purchasing (up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.2 million equivalent) will be carried out in areas where it is
determined to SIMAP satisfaction that only one supplier is available and provided
that prices are within SIMAP's reference price data base.
Consultants
9.16      Consultants required for the project will be hired in accordance with
IDA's guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
IDA's Review
9.17      Prior review by IDA in accordance with IDA guidelines will be carried
out for: (a) civil-works contracts valued at US$100,000 equivalent or above to
be procured under LCB procedures; and (b) the first three civil-works contracts
to be procured under LCB. It is estimated that, during the life of the project,
about 20 contracts and award recommendations (representing about 20 Percent of
total nroject costs) will require prior review by IDA. In addition, the
procurement agent will review ex-post all contracts and bid evaluations for works
and goods purchased under local shopping procedures and will carry out a
selective review of a representative sample of contracts under direct purchasing
arrangements (including at least 15 percent of all contracts). The findings of
the procurement agent will be submitted to IDA in semi-annual reports. During
the annual reviews, IDA staff will discuss the results of the reviews by the
procurement agent and carry out a selective review of contracts for works under
US$100,000 equivalent procured under LCB and of contracts for works and goods
purchased under shopping and direct contracting procedures. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: (a) SIMAP will submit to IDA for prior review: (i)
bidding documents and award recommendations for contracts of civil works valued
at US$100,000 equivalent or above to be procured under LCB procedures; and (ii)
bidding documents and award recommendations for the first three civil works
contracts.



- 33 -
X. BENEFITS AND RISKS
10.1      Benefits.  The proposed project would help cushion the negative effects
of adjustment, while at the same time improving the country's capacity to design,
implement, and monitor health, nutrition, sanitation and other community-
initiated programs. It would have direct effects on the nutritional status of
about 150,000 women of child-bearing age, and of 80,000 children under five, and
would provide associated services such as primary health care and basic
sanitation. Results from the LSMS would supply not only a tool for evaluating
the impact of SIMAP's activities but would also contribute to further the
understanding of the extent and depth of poverty and its correlates. This,
coupled with the implementation of the phase-out plan for SIMAP and the
preparation of an investment plan in the health and nutrition sectors, would help
the GOG in the development of sustainable medium-term policies and programs in
the social sectors.
10.2      Risks.  The project faces several risks:  (a) that SIMAP may succumb to
political pressure and approve sub-projects that are inconsistent with agreed
selection criteria; (b) that SIMAP's,credibility may be eroded as a result of a
prolonged hiatus between its launching and the start of operations; and (c) that
demand for health and nutrition projects may be limited by the lack of project
implementation capacity of NGOs and grass roots organizations. The project would
address these risks by: (a) the careful selection of technical staff, the
development of well-defined operating procedures and project eligibility
criteria, attention to institutional development supported by frequent
supervision, annual reviews and technical assistance; (b) the definition of a
core pipeline of sub-projects to be financed during the first year of
implementation; and (c) the emphasis on promotion activities during the project
preparation phase including the broadening of SIMAP's current promotion
strategies beyond NGOs and grass roots organizations to include national and
local government agencies.
XI. AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATION
Areesents Reached
11.1      Prior to Negotiations,
(a) the Government submitted to IDA the revised salary scale which was
approved by the Ministry of Finance in September 1991, that will
guarantee quality staffing at SIMAP (para. 7.5);
(b) the Government submitted to IDA a dated plan of action to phase-
out SIMAP and gradually integrate its activities into existing
government agencies (para. 8.2); and
(c) SIMAP submitted to IDA a list and profiles of sub-projects
suitable for financing during the first year of implementation
(para. 8.6).



34 -
11.2      It was agreed during Negotiations that:
(a)  SIMAP will be maintained fully staffed with qualified personnel
during the life of the project. The Minister of Finance agreed
that SIMAP salaries will be reviewed from time to time to ensure
that salaries remain competitive (para. 7.5);
(b) the proposed phase-out plan will be implemented in accordance with
the agreed objectives and time frame (para. 8.2);
(c)  SINAP will maintain at all times a reference price data base
satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.11);
(d) the Government will issue, not later than December 31, 1993, a
nutrition policy statement defining policies and programs designed
to meet the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women and
children under five years over a medium-term, and to start the
execution of a specific plan of action to put into effect such
policies and programs according to a timetable satisfactory to IDA
(para. 8.13);
(e)  procedures for IDA's sub-project review will be followed by SIMAP;
and that SIMAP will submit to IDA: (a) monthly reports on the
number and nature of sub-projects approved for financing (not
later than two weeks after the completion of each month); (b)
quarterly reports on its activities, including promotion,
targeting and impact evaluation (January 31, April 30, July 31,
and October 31 of each year); and (c) an annual report on April 30
of each year on the overall execution of the project (para 8.24);
(f) a mid-term review of the project will take place not later than
April 30 of each year (para. 8.24);
(g) the Government will provide counterpart funds as assigned in the
project financing plan (para. 9.2);
(h) the aggregate amount of expenditures on food items will not exceed
US$2.58 million equivalent over the life of the project (para.
9.5);
(i)  SINAP will contract a procurement agent acceptable to IDA to carry
out procurement activities under the proposed project, including
procurement audits of contracts to be procured under local
shopping and direct contracting procedures (para. 9.8);
(j)  SIMAP will use standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA for
the procurement of works through LCB (para. 9.10); and
(k)  SIMAP will submit to IDA for prior review:  (i) bidding documents
and award recommendations for contracts of civil works valued at



- 35 -
US$100,000 equivalent or above to be procured under LCB
procedures; and (ii) bidding documents and award recommendations
for the first three civil works contracts (para. 9.17).
11.3      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness will be that:
(a) the revised salary scale, satisfactory to IDA, is implemented
(para. 7.5);
(b) the contractual arrangement between the Borrower and SIMAP
specifying the mechanisms through which proceeds of the proposed
credit will be passed on to SIMAP has been duly signed and
ratified (para. 8.1); and
(c) the procurement agent, acceptable to IDA, has been employed (para.
9.8).
11.4      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
will constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 7.5 million (US$10.3
million equivalent) to Guyana.



37-
GUYANA
GUYANA                                 Page 1 of 6
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION-PROJECT
OFFICIAL ORDER
79/90                                                          535
(EXTRAORDINMY)
OF GUYANA
*ublsbtb  bp tbe Antboritp of tbe dSotrnmtnt.
GEORGETOWN, SATURDAY, 18TH AUGUST, 1990
TABLE OF CONTEINS                         FAGS
FR5Fr SUPPLMW
LEGAL SUPPLZM4VI
A ACTS- MIL
S. 3UeURD       LEGLATION
4rder No. 53 og 1990-Thb Social Impact Ameliortdon
Prmme Board Order 1990   ..   ..         %     ..    ..
C. Du-" -. _L
GEORCGrLON  Dcmeura -Printed and Published en:ry Sawrday and a -such
I&tM    y Days at way be direted by the Gov er=xe, by Gavsa National Pulates
Limited Ja&Wal Etistte, RuiMvldL Gcorseto.
SATURDAY,  18TI  AUGUST, .1990



A.NNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
-38 -
THE OFFICIAL GAZETTE 18TH -AUGUST,, 1990
LEGAL SUPPLEMENT   13B
r-UYANA                                            No. 53 of 1990
ORDER
Made Under
THE PUBLIC CORPORATIONS ACT 1988
(No. 21 of 1988)
IN EXERCISm OF6 THE POWERS CONFERRED UPON THE MINISTER
BY SPOTIONS 3, 4 MAID 5 OF THE- PUBLIC CORPORATIONS
ACT, I HEREBY MAKE THE FOLLOWING ORDER:-
1. This Order may be cited as the Social Impact Amell-. citation.
M14n  irogmme Board Order' 1990.
1.(1) In this Order -
(a) "Board' means *>,PoeIg Impact Amelora-
tion Pogiamnme Beard e4tablished by. clause
(b) "concerned Minlster" means the Mninstei
assigned responsibility for the Board or,
where there Is no such Minister, the Pre'
dent.
(2) The Board and Its employees together shall be
known as the Social Impact Amelioration Programme Agency
(hereinafter referred to as the "Agency").
StabUsh.'      3. (1) There is hereby estabLshed a publlc corporation
emotuutuo   to be known as the Social Impact Amelioration Programme
of 5o~t,^  Board
(2) The Board shall be a corporation aggregate con
sisting of a chairman, and such other members, who shall be
appointed by the concerned Minister unde section 4 of the
Act as modified by clause 6.
Jlw'utans      4. (1) The Board shall,  subject to the availability of
°''    &funds to the Board, approve projects and programnmes and
provide, either wholly or partially, finances to municipal
councils, reglonal administrations or other local democratie
organs, commrunity groups and non-governmental organisa-
tions with charitable and development goals, for the execution
of such projects or programmes which wM serve to alleviate
the negative effects, of structural economlc adjustment
* measures taken by the Government, on the most severely
affected groups in the country.
(2) In approving .a project or programme under para
graph (1), the Board shall have regard to all relevant matters,
Including the following -
(a) the size of the proposed  project or r--
gramme;



39                                  ANNEX 1
- 39-                                   Page 3 of 6
(b) wbether the proposed project or programmp
can be undertaken expeditiously;
(c) the time required for the completion of the
proposed project;
(d) whether the proposed prolect or programme
has the capacity to demonstrate technical,
Instftuflonal and economic viability according
to established project approval criteria;
(e). whether the proposed Proiect dr programme
is in the sectoral priority areas of public
services and productive Infrastructure, social
services and productive income generation;
(f) the operating costs in relation to the proposed
project or programme; and
IS) where the applicant is an organi-ation or
other group of persons, whether the organisa-
tion or group has been incorporated or regis-
tered under any written law.
(3) The Board shall have exclusive power -
(a) to approve-
(i) the procedures and criteria for project
and programme selection, and the pro-
jects and programmes submitted for Its
consideration in acocrdance therewith;
(ii) its policies regarding the nianagement
of projects, programmes and activities,
its financial regulations and tendering
procedures;
(iil) the terms and conditions of appointment
of the Executive Director;
(iv; the budget; and
(v) the rules prescribing the procedures of,
including the quorum for, the meetings
of the Board, and the manner In which
it will transact its business;
(b) to accept fgrants. gifts fr loan funds frora any
person in or outside Guyana; and
(e) to submit to the concerned Minister reports
on the activities of the Agency on ra timely
and regular basis.
(4) There sh2U be an Executive Director appointed
by the Board for a perind of three years or such shorter period
ag may be determined by the Board.
(5) The Executive Director shall be the chief executive
officer of the Board and shall, subject to the general direction
and control of the Board, be responsible for implementing
the decisions of the Board and the management of the affairs
and activities of the Agency.



ANNEX 1
40-                                  Page 74 -of 6
I""  Sc-         (6) Without prejudice to the provlsions of par3graph
(5), the Executive Director shall be responsible for the activi-
ties and fupetions referred to in the First Schedule.
C7) All proposals made by the Executive Director to
the Board shall be considered app oved, unless rejected by a
majority of the Board and all other proposals shall be con-
sidered rejected, unless approved by a majority of the Board.
coGSUlUWce     5. All persons  employed, immediately  before  the
tent ao    commencement of this Order, in the Social Impace Ameliora-
__g ,,  tlon Programme Unit of the Ministry of Culture and Social
otlhyi -.   Development shall be continued in employment by the Board
in suitable positions, having regard to the positions they held
Immediately before such commencement in the said Unit.
Zxdc ul4M      Q. The proisions of the Act shall apply to the Board
"tUOn *I    with the following exclusions  sd modifications -
the ACt.
(a) for section 4'3), (4, (5) and (6) the following
shall be deemed to be substituted-
"(3) The Board shall consist of-
(a) one member to represent the
Ministry of Finance;
(b) two members appointed on a rota-
tional basis to represent the Minis-
tries   of   Health,   Education,
Agriculture and Works;
(c) three members, one each to be
chosen from panels of three
persons to be submitted by the
respective interest group to repre-
sent the private sector business
and industrial undertaldngs, non-
governmental organisations and
the  faculties  of  engineering,
economics or social studies of the
University of Guyana.
*                                   (4) The Executive  Director  shall be an
ex officio member of the Boar4.
(5) Ihe members of the Board referred to
in subsection (3) shall'be appoiited by
the Minlster and shall hold office for a
perlod of one year but shall be eligible
for re-appointmeni.
(6) The members of the Board shall elect
a chairman from among themselves."
(b) references to "general manager" shall be
construed ik rbferences to the "Executive
Directoe';



ANNEX 1
-41-                                Page 5 of 6
(c) sections. 15 and 34 and Part ViI shall be
deemed'to be deleted;
(d) section 17 shall' to the extent to which It is
inconsistent with the provisions of this Order,
be read and construed with such modifications
as may be necessary to bring it into confor-
mity with this Order;
te3 section 25 shall be deemed to be deleted and
the fbllowing section substituted therefor-
DIn"r,ec,tor     25. (1) The Board shall emplo
and other        an Executive Director on such
itiff,          terms and conditions (including
salary and allowances) as it deenms
fit.
(2) There shall be such other
offlcers and employees as are
necessary to carry out the func-
tions of the Board and the
Agency."
(fl in section 81(1), after paragraph (a) the follow-
ing paagraph shall be deemed to be inserted
as paragraph (aa) -
"(aa) sums received as grants,
gifts or othervJise from' any per-
soil, other thani the Government
of Guyana, in or outside Guyana;"
7.    The movable property of the State referred to in  vesu   of
the Second Schedule shall vest in the Agency with effect from   s.A
the commencement of this Order.                           5ce4.
FIRST SCHEDULE               cl. 4(a)
Rbsponsibillties of Executive Director
1. The Executive Directoi shall be responsible-
(a) for direcding -
(i) the overall planning, implementation and
internal evaluation of the projects, pro-
grammes anduactivities of the Board and
the Agency;
(iJ) the financial atdvities of the Board and the
Agency, including;Jund-raising and the co-
ordination of the flow and use of funds by
the Board and the Agency.
(b) for proposing for the consideration and approval
of the Board, policies, regulations and pro-
cedures; the projects, .programmes, and activitnes
to be financed, and the budget.
(c) for hiring the officers and employees necessary
for carrying out the functions of the Board and
the Agency, to determine their remuneration
and the terms and conditions of their employ-
mnent In accordance with budget, and to dismiss
them.



ANNEX 1
-42-                                  Page 6 of 6
(d) for keeping the Board informed on a timely and
regular basis of all the activities of the Agency.
2. The Executive Director, or such other officers of the
Agency.as may be designated by him, shall be re-
sponsible for the following -
(i) to establsh contact with Government Ministries.
external agencies, local authorities and com-
munity groups, as the Executive Director may
deem necessary to carry out the Agency's goals;
(di) to use all appropriate means to promote public
awareness of the Agfncy's work and, the assist-
ance it can provlde; and
(Xii) to make presentations of the Agency's activities
to potental donor organisations, and provide
them with activity reports and statements of
uses of funds provided by them.
SECOND SCHEDULE                  cl. 7
1. ONE IBM PS/2' MODEL COMPUTER.
SERIAL NO. 72- 601.
2. ONE SUZUKI VITARA FOUR WHEEL DRIVE JEEP
(1990 MODEL) VEHICLE NO. PDD 1151.
8. ONE SUZUKI SAMURAI FOUR WHEEL  DRIVE
JEEP (1990 MODEL) VEHICLE NO. PDD 1397.
4.. TWO EEC SUPER DE LUXE TABLE MODEL FANS.
5. ONE WOODEN EXECUTIVE DESIR
6. THREE WOODEN OFFICE CHAIRS.
7. THREE WOODEN OFFICE DESKS.
8. ONE 18" OLIVETTI TYPEWRITER
SERIAL NO. 3218878.
9. ONE WESTINGHOUSE AIR CONDITIONER.
10. ONE ICEBERG REFRlIGERATOR
MODEL NO. G525
SERIAL NO. 109827.
11. ONE 14" DAYTON PEDESTAL FAN.
Made tbis 9th day of August, 1990.
H. D. Hoyte,
President



43 -
SIUMAPHEALTH, NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJEa
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF SIHAP AGENCY
XCUTIVE DIRCTOR
1'~~~~~~~~~~~MO IIJ
EXECUTIVE
SECRETARY
OPERATIONS
MANAGER
EXTERNAL SUPPORT
* Legal Services
* Ex-Post Evaluation Services
Technical Assistance
Consultants
FINANCE DEPARTMENT         PROJECTS DEPARTMENT                      MIS
* Administration            * Infrastructure Division            DEPARTMENT
* Accounting                * Productive Activities
Division
* Social Services Division
.



-44-                                  ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
G=a
SIMAP HEALTt. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION  PROJECT
SOCIAL SECTORS
Table 1: ESTIMATED END OF YEAR POPULATION BY SEX -
GUYANA, 1977 - 1989
. _          I  _   _         I1 _  _-       I  _  _   _
Year         Both Sexes         Male          Female
1977           744,000         370,000       374,000
1978           750,000         373,000       377,000
1979           756,000         376,000       380,000
1980           759,000         376,000       383,000
1981           758,000         375,500       382,500
1982           757,600         375,300       382,400
1983           757,300         375,200       382,100
1984           756,900         375,000       381,900
1985           756,500         374,800       381,700
1986           756,100         374,300       381,800
1987           755,700         374,100       381,600
1988           755,6eo         374,100       381,500
1989           755,200         373,900       381,300
Note:    Figures adjusted to reflect unreported migration.
Figures revised from 1981-1984.
Source: Statistical Bureau.
Table 2: CHILDREN 0-14 YEARS AS PERCENTAGE OF
THE TOTAL POPULATION
Age            1970     J       1980             1986
0 - 4           15.8             12.8             11.1
5 - 9           16.9             14.0      f      12.5
10 - 14          14.4             1 13.8           13.2
TOTAL           47.1             40.6             36.8
Source: Census of Guyana 1970, 1980; GUYREDEM 1987.



Page 2 of 7
- 45 -
Table 3: AREA AND POPULATION BY REGIONS GUYANA, 1986
Reg.       Area      Population       2       Density    Z Rural
Sq.   1                       _T Sq.           _         
Miles                              M Miles  | _ _
-                     =                                 _    -g
1          7,853      18,516        2.4        2.4       100.0
2          2,392      41,966        5.6       17.5       100.0
3          1,450     102,760       13.6       70.9       100.0
4            862     310,758        41.1     360.5        51.6
5          1,610      55,556        7.3       34.5       100.0
6         13,993     148,967       19.7       10.6        76.8
7         18,229      17,941        2.4        0.9       100.0
8          7,742       5,672        0.7        0.7       100.0
9         22,313      15,338        2.0        0.7       100.0
10         6,595      38,598         5.1        5.8       24.8
TOTAL       83         756,072       100.0  T    9.1
Sources  Statistical Bureau GUYREDEH Conference, 7-8 July 1987,
Georgetown, Guyana.
Table 4: SELECTED SOCIAL INDICATORS IN THE REGION
Country                   (1)                 (2)                (3)
Infant            Z Infants        Prim. School
Mortal. Rate         with Low           Enrollment
(per thious.)      Birth Weigh            Ratio
1980             1982-1987             1980
Guyana                   47.8                 11                 100
Suriname                  n/a                 13                 115
Dom. Rep.                78.6                 16                 114
Haiti                    132.4                17                  69
Belize                   46.8                 c/U n/a
Barbadoa                  13.6                10                 109
LAC Average               nla                 12                 n/a
Souree   (1) & (2) World Tables, 1988-8$ Ed., The World Bank
(2) Human Resources in L&Cs Basic Indicators, LATHR.



- 46 -                                 Page 3 of 7
Table 5s  LEADING CAUSES OF DEATH IN CHILDREN, 1984
CAUSES O  DEATH          c ildren .cl         Children 1-4
Rank 2 Total          Rank S total
malnutrition             1         27.9         2        20.9
Digestive System         2         22.4         1        35.3
Respiratory Syst.        4         10.6        3         11.4
Perinetal Cond.          3         16.9         -
111-Defined              5          5.3        9          3.5
Hematologic              -          -           4         4.9
Nervous System           -        -          _5           3.9
Source:  PAHO/Ministry of Health
Table 6s IMMUNIZATION STATUS OF INFANTS 11984-88)
PERCENTAGE IHMUNIZED
Vaccines     1984       1985       1986  j   1987       1988
BCG                               75.5       68.6       64.0
DPT          69.8       75.0      63.7       67.0       64.3
OPV          66.8       77.2      67.0       76.7       69.4
measles      56.0       39 5       42.2      52.2       55.2
Source:  PAHO/Ministry of Health, 1989
Table :t NUTRITIONAL STATUS O CHILDREN UNDER 5
Degree of Malnutrition          1987
Veight for Ae              Total                X
12 of R f . Stanterd)       _ 
Severe <60                         956               2.7
Mild/Moderate 60-C0O             7,422              20.6
Normal 80-120                   25,792              71.4
Obesity p120                     1,924               5.3
TOTAL             I     36,094      ;       100.0
Sources CMP1, 1987



- 47 -                                           a
Page 4 of 7
Table St HB TESTS OF PREGNANT WOMEN AT HEALTH CENTERS
GUYANA, 1985 - 1987
Year            No. of           BB less
Women           11 g./dl   J         2
1985            4,482             2,538             56.6
1986            5,417             3,077             56.8
1987   _        9,060             6,391             70.5
Source:  Ministry of Health.  Maternal and Child Department.
Table 9: PREVALENCE OF ANAEMIA AMONG SCHOOL CHILDREN
GUYANA, 1981 - 1986
Year           No. with           No. vith           2 Likely
8B                 BB              Anaemis
cll g./dl      11 g./dl and over
1981            8,245               2,641               76
1982            8,803               2,953               75
1983            5,810               2,614               69
1984            6,)99               2,791               70
1985            4,404               2,401               64
1986            4,024               2,608               61
Source: Ministry of Health. Annual Reports 1981-1986.



ANNEX 3
-48-                                   Page 5 of 7
Table 10: EEALTH FACILITIES IN GUYANA
Region        Regional     District    Health        Health           Other
______________   Hospitals   Hospitals   Centers          Posts           Hoop.__ _
Region I             0             3            6          13
Region 2              1        -  1             9           2
Region 3              1            3           15           0
Region 4             0             0           18           0
Region 5             0             2           14           0
Region 6              1            3           21           0         Psychiatric
Region 7             0             1            3          12
Region 8             0             0            2          14
Region 9             0             2            3          20
RegionlO              1            1            6           4
Georgetown           0             0            7           0          Georgetown
Palm.
Aged
Children'o
TOTAL        ~~4         16      j 104 (65                 1 ______
Note: a) Both hospitals in Region 10 are managed by GUYHINE.
b) Also In Georgetown there Is a Cheat Clinic and Imunization Center.
c) There are 7 private hospitela ln Guyana; 6 in Georgetown and I In
Region 6.
d) The figures for the regions with health posts are approximate.



~49. _Page 6 of 7
Table 1: MEDICAL MANPOWER
Medical          T       ToLAl            Per 10,000
Manpower                                  Population
Physicians                         164                 2.00
Dentists                            16                 0.20
Nurses                             789                 9.80
Midwives                           409                 5.10
Nurse Assistants                   875                10.90
Dental Nurse/Aides                  37                 0.50
Medex                              126                 1.60
Medical Technologists               49                 0.60
Radiographers and                   17                 0.20
Technicians
Pharmacists                         38                 0.50
Dispensary Assistants               46                 0.60
Public Health                       58                 0.70
Inspectors
Hospital Administrators              3                 0.04
Statistical Clerks                  15                 0.20
Other Staff                        165                 2.10
Table 12: HATH CARE PERSONNEL PER 100,000 POPULATION
Guyana    Suriname   French    Trinidad   Jamaica   Venezuela
Guyana    & Tobago                         l
Physicians        2.0        8.7       15.9       10.6         4.9       14.3
Dentlsts          0.2        0.6        3.4        0.9         0.5         2.6    l
Nurses            9.8       27.0       98.6       29.2       15.8         5.3
Nurse Ass.       10.9       12.8        9.0       10.3         4.8         3.7
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Sources  Health Conditions in the Amoricas, PABO, 1986.
Ministry of Bealth, Guyana, 1987.



-50-ANE 
Page 7 of 7
Table 13: ESTIX&TED NUMBER OF CHILDREN COVE=RD
BY HEALTH SERVICES, 1983.
Age Group            t ChIldrea          2 of Target
(months)                                 Population
0-11                20,000                99
12-23                11,288                58
24-59                15,448                 27
0-59                46,736                48
SourS: Ministry of Health. Annual Report, 1983.



- 51
Page 1 of 5
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
NUTRITION PROGRAMS
Maternal and Child Programs 
1.        Nutrition programs are incorporated into maternal and child
programs carried out by the Maternal and Child Department of the Ministry of
Health. Ante-natal care is provided to pregnant women including haemoglobin
control and iron and vitamin supplementation. Health check-ups for infants
and children under 5 years old are scheduled once per month in the first year
of life, once every other month in the second year, and twice per year in the
third, fourth and fifth years of life. These visits include growth
monitoring, nutrition education of mothers, and other primary health care
activities, such as immunizations and control of diarrhoeal and acute
respiratory diseases. Maternal and child health clinics have fixed schedules
for the provision of specific services (i.e. ante-natal control visits occur
once a week on a specific day, children health check-ups on another day, and
malnourished children are seen once a month on a pre-defined date).
2.        Currently, the MOH, in collaboration with UNICEF, PAHO and the
Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute, is in the process of implementing a
project to increase coverage of growth monitoring programs for children under
five. This project includes the introduction of the Caribbean Growth Chart
into the primary health care system, training of health care workers,
including community health care workers in growth monitoring techniques,
increased emphasis on nutrition education (in particular in breastfeeding and
weaning practices), and information dissemination campaigns. UNICEF will
provide cardboard and other materials for the production of growth charts,
support the training of health care workers, and finance the printing of a
revised Maternal and Child Health Manual. The project aims at increasing the
coverage of the growth monitoring program to about 95,000 children (from its
current level of about 60,000). The project does not include food
supplementation schemes.
Community Resource Person (CRP) Project
3.        The MOH, in collaboration with CFNI and PAHO, is also carrying out
a pilot project in 18 communities with high levels of malnutrition11. The
objective of the project is to increase the coverage of maternal and child
health programs through the active involvement of community members in
maternal and child activities. These community members, who have to live in
the community and m.st have completed primary education to qualify for the
1/ Comutities were selected in Regions 3, 4, 5 and 10.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
program, are being trained to raise the community's awareness on issues of
child growth, health and nutrition, and to motivate parents to take children
regularly to clinics. Increased education at the community level, and the
early identification of malnourished and/or sick children is expected to
increase attendance to maternal and child clinics. An evaluation of the
program carried out in January 1991 showed encouraging initial results,
including a high motivation of community workers, higher degrees of awareness
of sound nutrition and health practices among targeted communities and
increasing levels of attendance of children to clinics.
Day-Care Centers Program
4.        The Georgetown Municipal Day-Care Service is the only formal
organization providing day-care services in Guyana. While, in general,
children in rural areas are taken care of by extended family units, the
problem of children left unattended has become pervasive in urban areas. The
Georgetown Municipal day-care service has five centers with a total of 430
children with ages ranging from 9 months to 5 years and 9 months. There are
two more day-care centers in Linden, one in Corriverton (Courantyne River
Town), and other private day-care centers in Georgetown: two associated with
the Mothers' Union, one with the YMCA, one run by a private agency (WYLPA),
and one owned by a private person. In total, day-care centers cover only
about 1,000 children nationwide.
5.        The Georgetown Municipal Day-Care Service provides two snacks and a
lunch to children. Diets are balanced among the four groups of food,
including milk, fish, vegetables, and fruits (fish is preferred over beef
because of its lower price but is not usually available in some months of the
year).   Food is obtained from the local market.  Snacks consist of a half
glass of milk (around 2 ounces) and 2 or 3 biscuits per child and lunch
includes a main dish and a dessert. Two of the main problems of those centers
are security (food is stolen if storage areas are not secured) and the
contamination of the water supply (all water needs to be boiled prior to its
utilization). Kitchen utensils for the program have been provided by UNICEF.
During one of the field visits of one of the preparation missions to one of
the day-care centers (South Road Center), IDA noted that the kitchen was clean
and well equipped, and was staffed with 2 well-trained cooks.
6.        Staff for the day-care centers is trained in an extramural program
run by the University of Guyana. The training program consists of two
different levels: a basic training pxogram, and an advanced training program.
Each of these programs currently enrolls 20 students. Currently, the
Municipality employs 90 persons distributed in the centers as follows: one
staff per five babies (9 months to 1 year-3 months), one staff per seven
children (1 year-3 months to 2 years), one staff per eight children (2 to 3
years), one staff per 10 children (3 to 4 years), and one staff per 15
children (over 4 years). Children health check-ups (including immunizations)
are carried out by municipal health centers prior to admission. Sick children
are not accepted, and malnourished children receive special attention,



53 -
Page 3 of 5
including special diets (their parents are also enrolled in a nutrition
education program). Funding for the Day-Care Center Program comes from the
Georgetown Municipality. Parents pay only G$100 a month per child (less than
US$1 in April 1991). Demand for the program far exceeds capacity and the
number of applicants in waiting-lists is rapidly increasing.
7.        In addition to the day-care system a "play-group" system has been
established. This system caters to children between 2 years-9 months and 3
years-9 months, and offers day-care and early stimulation programs during the
morning (9-12 a.m.). "Play-group" programs do not involve the provision of
food. There are 11 of these centers nationwide with a coverage of around 800
children.
Red Cross Recovery Center
8.        A Red Cross convalescent home for abandoned children exists in
Georgetown. Most of the children arriving at the home are malnourished, and a
program has been set up to offer special child care, including the provision
of diets for nutritional recovery. The home can accommodate about 30 children
from 9 months to 5 years. Following recovery children are given for adoption
or sent to an orphanage. Funding for the convalescent home is from the Red
Cross in Geneva and from donations, especially from Guyanese residing abroad.
School and Nursers School Feedinz Program
9.        The World Food Program (WFP) has provided support to two food
supplementation projects: (a) a feeding program for children in nursery
school; and (b) a supplementary feeding program for school children (including
the extension of the nursery school program and a primary school feeding
program).
10.       The Nursery School Feeding Program.  This project, initiated in
1983, targets children from three years and nine months to five years and nine
months enrolled in Nursery Schools and is aimed at supplying the Government
with food commodities (i.e., wheat flour, dried skim milk, wheat-soya blend
and edible fat) and providing assistance in the distribution of commodities.
The program, which planned to cover 20,000 children by 1988 (see Table 1), ran
into implementation problems as a result of the weak institutional capacity of
the Ministry of Education (i.e., lack of motivated personnel and inadequate
transportation and storage facilities, and deterioration of the physical
condition of schools) and the lack of safe water supply and utensils to
reconstitute the powder milk into liquid milk. As a result of the program's
problems, the program was extended for another five years (in conjunction with
the new primary school feeding program) and biscuit production and
distribution was contracted with the private sector (TRISCO, a subsidiary of
Banks D.I.H. Limited).



ANEX 4
54 -                         Page 4 of 5
Table Is NURSERY SCHOOL CHILDREN TARGETED FOR
SCHOOL FEEDING PROGRAM
Targ,eted   Targeted       Actual      Actual No.
No.         No.           No.         Year
of          of             of         school
children     school        children      days
|das         fed
1984    15,000         195          17,999         121
1985    20,000         195          13,746         120
1986    25,000         195          11,631          84
1987    30,000         195          14,925          96
1988    20,000         195           5,807          88
1989      -              -          14,379         142
Source:  WPP Project Guyan 41421Q "Supplementary Feedln8 of
PrSmary School Children.
11.       The School Feeding Program.  This program, initiated in May 1990,
came as a response to the Government's Social Impact Amelioration Program
(SIMAP) and is aimed at expanding the Nursery School Program to 80,000 primary
school children. Additional financing for these programs has been pledged by
the EEC (through proceeds of the sale of wheat), th_ Canadian Government
(through proceeds of fertilizer sales), the Italian Government (through
proceeds from the sale of rice) and the French Government. The program has
the long-term objective of supporting development of the education system in
Guyana. In the short-term it aims at encouraging atzendance and reducing
drop-out rates. This objective is particularly important if one considers
that attendance of primary school students has been decreasing in the last
years to less than 60X.
12.       The program provides nursery and primary school children with a
supplementary snack consisting of four biscuits and a glass of milk (the
program covers 195 school days per year). Milk and biscuits are distributed
from the central level to three regional distribution centers. Distribution
is carried out with 3 vehicles and managed by four full-time workers funded by
the Ministry of Education. School headmasters are responsible for the program
at the school level. Biscuits and milk are delivered every three weeks and
milk is reconstituted every day by parents or school teachers. The main
problems are associated with the lack of utenslIs to reconstitute the milk as
well as with the safety of the water supply. Program costs are around US$1.7
million (of which WFP finances US$1.2 million).
The Cerex Proggra
13.       In October 1978, the USAID-financed Guyana Weaning Food Project
began to develop an appropriate weaning food establishing a manufacturing
plant to distribute food made in part from Title II commodities to the target
group (children under 5 years of age) predominantly through retail stores, and
secondarily through maternal child clinics. In 1981. an evaluation was
conducted and concluded that the project has been successful In achieving its
major objectives: an acceptable weaning food product (that was named CEREX)
had been developed and a factory built and put into successful operation by
the implementing agency, Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation (GPC). The product



- 55 -                       ANNL 4
Page 5 of 5
was produced in part from locally grown crops (rice and sugar) and in part
from imported Title II commodities (corn meal, soy bean flour, soy bean oil,
and milk powder) (see Table 2).
Table 2: PERCENTAGE OF CEREX INGREDIENTS AND SOURCE.
Ingredients            j  2           Source
Rice, polished                15.6    Local production
Sugar                          8.1    Local production
Corn meal                     37.4    PL 480, Title II
Soy bean flour                18.9    PL 480, Title I1
Milk powder                    9.5    PL 480, Title II
Soy bean oil                   7.3    PL 480, Title II
Mineral premix                 3.1    USAID Grant, U.S.
Vitamin premix                 0.1    USAID Grant, U.S.
Source: USAID, 1985.
14.       At the initial stage of the project, CEREX wa, sold throughout
Guyana in half pound packets at a subsidized price (G$ 0.50 per packet in
1981) which covered essentially all manufacturing and distribution costs. By
mid-1981, Cerex sales had grown to an annualized rate of 460 tons per year. A
July 1981 national consumer survey indicated that roughly 66Z of children
under 5 in Guyana consumed Cerex, that half of all Cerex consumers were under
5, and 201 were under 2, and that among children under 2 who consumed Cerex,
70? had 3 servings a day. However, a 581 of weaning children consumed Cerex
from a bottle rather than by spoon feeding, as it was indicated, and a
substantial amount of Cerex appeared to be consumed by older children and
adults, thereby diverting subsidies to non targeted persons. In addition
Guyanese programs to promote local production of corn and soy bean had not
been successful, thus threatening the goal of achieving full use of local
crops to produce Cerex.
15.       In a second phase of the project, the HOH initiated the delivery of
Cerex to children attending health clinics. The distribution scheme and the
product were well accepted by the beneficiaries and health personnel, and
attendance to health centers increased substantially. The program, however,
suffered from erratic distribution mechanisms and manufacturing problems
(related to equipment breakdowns, lack of a reliable and stable power sourcA,
and absence of an adequate water source). The project was phased out in 1987,
and the CEREX plant (with a potential production of 1,500 Tons of Cerex per
year) was shut-down. To this date, however, health workers and beneficiaries
consider CEREX to be an excellent weaning food that was well accepted by
mothers and children.
Food Fortification Programs
16.       Wheat flour is the only basic food staple that is currently being
fortified in Guyana. Wheat flour is imported and enriched with B vitamins,
calcium and iron.



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH, NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical Assistance
Administ.rtion
International    1 month        12,000
MI.  U   .   .,.  .  .  .  ... . ... . . . . . . . - .. . . -- . ;..::.s:.;
International   3 months        36,000
National      24 months         18,000
International    1 month        12,000
Unit dost Data Base.:.,
International    1 month        12,000
phratTiohal Manual
International   3 months        36,000
Food Supplementatlon
International   3 months        36,000
National      26 months         54,000
SUb-Protet impiementatlon'.
International   12 months       60,000
Phase-out Plan.-.::: 
International   2 months        24,000
_MonJtoring and Evaluation.
International   5 months        60,000
Total Man-months Technical Assistance
Intemational:  31 man-month
National:     50 man-month
Sub-Totai C,osts Technical Assistance     300,000
Procurement and External Audits
Procurement
Intemational Procurement       190,000
Agency
*Extemral Audit
External Auditing Firm          50,000
Sub-Total Costs Procurement and Audit     240,000
tl Costs          40,000



-57 -EX 6
Page 1 of 6
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR SUB-PROJECT ELIGIBILITY
1.          Categories of eligible health, nutrition, and water and sanitation
sub-projects are defined in accordance with the following general criteria:
(a)   consistency with Government's priorities in the health sector;
(b)   capacity to reach the poorest and most underserved segments of the
population, and to effectively improve their health and nutrition
status;
(c)   focus on women (in particular pregnant and lactating women) and
children under five years of age;
(d)   ability to strengthen the role and capacity of community groups,
NGOs and municipalities to plan and implement health projects and
programs; and
(e)   capacity for continuity of sub-project benefits once SIMAP's
financing ends.
General Eliibtility Criteria for Health and Nutrition Sub-Projects
2.          Sub-project categories in health would include:
(a)   Primary health care infrastructure
(i)   Construction, expansion or rehabilitation of district
hospitals (maternal and child health outpatient services
only), health centers and health post. Sub-project
proposals that include civil works need also to involve
the supply of furniture and basic equipment. In
addition, in areas where malnutrition rates are high, the
proposal needs to include a food supplementation
component coupled with nutrition education and growth
monitoring activities. Improvements in water and
sanitation systems of the health facility need also to be
included in the request. Future staffing and recurrent
costs of the rehabilitated, expanded or newly constructed
infrastructure MIst be insured.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
(ii)     Supply of furniture and basic equipment for district
hospitals (maternal and child health outpatient services
only), health centers and health posts.
(b)   Supplies and drugs for primary health care services
(i)    basic medical supplies (in accordance with MOH
guidelines)l;
(ii)    essential drugs (in accordance with MOH guidelines and
latest WHO list)-;
(iii)    non-essential drugs considered necessary to prevent,
treat and control prevailing health problems in the area;
(iv)    chemicals and supplies for the control of vectors
responsible for endemic diseases (e.g. malaria, dengue);
and
(v)    equipment and supplies for health information and
education programs.
(c)   Health Outreach Programs
Mi)   per diem and transportation costs- for primary health
care personnel based in district hespitals, health
centers and health posts to carry out bi-weekly visits to
outreach areas and provide immunization, pre-natal and
post-natal care visits (as well as nutritional
surveillance); and
(ii)    bags and equipment for personnel assigned to outreach
visits.
3.           In health sub-projects, SIMAP does not finance:
(a)   civil works for hospitals other than those involving maternal and
child health outpatient services;
15,    (b)   furnishing other than basic furnishings;
1/    A complete list of basic supplies per level of care (including unit costs) should be kept
in SUWAP's database. This list should be made available to the requesting agency for the
preparation of sub-project proposals.
LI    The list has been developed by SIHAP and Includes about 20 essential drugs..
31    Per Diem and transportation unit costs need to be determined by SIMAP and introduced in
their unit costs data base.



- 59 -
Page 3 of 6
(c)   motor vehicles;
(d)   recurrent costs of the sponsoring agency, other than those
generated directly by the sub-project; and
(e)   land.
4.          Sub-project categories in nutrition would include:
(a)   Food Supplementation Programs
The sub-project proposals should be compatible with the following
criteria:
(i)   all pregnant and lactating women attending pre- and post-
natal control visits would receive 2 Kg. of milk and 2
Kg. of rice every month;
(ii)   all infants from six months to two years of age would
receive 2 Kg. of milk every month;
(iii)   malnourished children (severe and moderate malnutrition)
from two to five years of age would receive 2 Kg. of milk
and 2 Kg. of rice;
iv)   food should be purchased at the local level-;
(v)   the proposals need to indicate the availability of
qualified suppliers in the area, and local shopping
procedures with quotations frbm at least two suppliers
need to be followed;
(vi)   costs of hiring a person responsible for coordinating the
purchase and distribution of food are eligible for
financing; and
(vii)   all proposals including a food supplementation component
need to include nutrition surveillance activities
(involving the supply of scales and growth monitoring
charts) and nutrition education activities (i.e.
promotion of breastfeeding, adequate utilization and
handling of food, information about diseases associated
with malnutrition). The proposal needs to include a
complete description, methodologies and schedules for the
implementation of these activities.
41   In very remote areas where food might not be available locally, the sub-project could
include transportation costs.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
General Eliibility Criteria for Day-Care Sub-Projects
5.          Sub-Project categories in day-care would include:
(a)   construction, rehabilitation, expansion and equipping (including
growth monitoring equipment) of day-care centers; special
attention should be given, particularly in the case of
construction of a new center, to the sustainability of day-care
center at the end of SIMAP's financing (user charges, other
sources of financing should be closely examined);
(b)   construction, rehabilitAtion, expansion and equipping of kitchens
and dining rooms (or serving areas) and food storage areas;
(c)   food (one or two meals) for all children under five years of age
attending the day-care centers according to pre-defined menus
designed by the Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education,
Environment and Food Policy (GAHEF) (to ensure sustainability,
beneficiary contributions should account for at least 50 pei4ent
of the value of the food);
(d)   every child entering the center should have a health check-up,
including growth monitoring and immunization (if necessary); and
(e)   nutrition education for parents, particularly for those with
malnourished children.
Genera E1-igibility Criteria for Water and Sanitation Sub-Projects
6.          The following types of sub-projects would be eligible for SIMAP
financing:
(a)   Water Supply:  construction, expansion or rehabilitation of public
water supply systems (standpipes) or the extension of domicile
water supply systems to provide a public water supply system; and
rehabilitation and reinforcement of domicile water supply networks
only for collectives of less than 5,000 inhabitants. The above
types of sub-projects must comply with the following conditions:
(i)   construction or expansion of domicile water supply
systems are not financed unless the expansion is
initially intended to provide a public water supply
system (standpipes);
(ii)   for domicile water supply systems, rehabilitation is
eligible only for small scale networks (covering less
than 5,000 people);
(iii)   for the consG-ruction or expansion of non-domicile water
supply systems, the source capacity must be insured;



- 61 -
AMNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
(iv)   construction or expansion of non-domicile water supply
systems, the main pipe must be dimensioned to provide
future domicile supply; and
(v)   for the construction, expansion or rehabilitation of any
water supply system, the community must have already
established a committee able to manage an'l maintain the
existing or proposed system.
(b)   Sanitation:  construction or rehabilitation of water and
sanitation facilities for public schools, health centers, markets
and public toilets; and construction of pit latrines. The above
types of sub-projects must comply with the following conditions:
(i)   construction or rehabilitation of water and sanitation
facilities in public schools, markets or public toilets
are eligible for SIMAP financing, if future operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure is ensured;
'ii)   public toilets or facilities for markets must be located
in urban or rural areas where a domicile water supply
system exists. In addition, the proposal must provide
for security measures to avoid vandalism or theft (e.g.
attendants responsible for supervision);
(iii)   sub-project proposals for latrines must include a
training program for the beneficiaries; and
(iv)   for family latrine proposals, a maximum of 10 VIP latrine
units will be provided per village and the sponsor must
demonstrate that the beneficiaries are the poorest
members of the community.
(c)   Stormwater Drainage:  construction or rehabilitation of
residential drainage systems in densely populated rural areas
including the rehabilitation or replacement of associated
structures such as culverts. The above types of sub-projects must
comply with the following conditions:
(i)   tertiary or roadside drains shall be provided to every
houselot;
(ii)   secondary or sideline drains shall be provided according
to local practice to collect discharge from the tertiary
drains;
(iii)    reinforced concrete road culverts shall be ptovided where
secondary or sideline drains are crossed by existing
vehicular access;
(iv)   where possible, existing culverts and bridges providing
houselot access shall be retained;



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
(v)   provision shall be made to provide 25X of houselots with
new footbridge access and lOX with new road access;
(vi)   where drain sections are unstable or insufficient reserve
is available, drains shall be reveted;
(vii)   all spoil excavated from drains shall be removed from
site and the formed section sprayed with an approved
herbicide to a distance of two yards from the excavation;
(viii)   tertiary drains shall be designed for a peak run off rate
of 1.17 inches per hour (assuming that drains are to be 2
ft deep with a 2 ft bed width and 1 in 1 side slopes);
and
(ix)   secondary or sideline drains shall be designed for a run
off of 0.74 cusecs per acre when controlled by a tidal
sluice and 0.154 cusecs per acre when pumped (assuming
that drains are to be 4 ft deep with a 3 ft bed and a 1
in 1.5 side slope).
igjJaJle-Organizations
7.    The following types of organizations would be eligible for SIMAP
financing of health and nutrition sub-projects:
(a)   decentralized public health care institutions:  district
hospitals, health centers and health posts;
(b)   NGOs and church groups;
(c)   municipal governments; and
(d)   all of the above and community groups with no NGO legal status If
sponsored by PAHO, UNICEF or UNDP.
8.    The following types of organizations would be eligible for SIMAP's
financing of water and sanitation projects:
(a)   municipal governments and Regional Democratic Councils when the
Ministry of Public Works and Regional Development guarantees
through GUYWAa the operation and maintenance of the systems belng
upgraded; and
(b)   NGOs and church groups when the proposal specifies clearly what
mechanisms will be established to guarantee the operation and
maintenance of the systems being upgraded.
5L Or the Cuyana Sewerage and Water Comissioneres-GSwC- I.n Georgeton.



- 63 -
ANILEX 7
Page 1 of 4
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SINAP FRANEWORK FOR PHASE-OUT PLAN
The Context of SIMNP within Government Strategy
1.          SIMAP was launched in early 1989 to address the social costs of
the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) undertaken by the Government of Guyana.
This program sought to reorient the role of the state in the economy, to
address severe external and internal imbalances, and to promote economic
growth. It was recognized from the outset that policies to liberalize trade
and prices, achieve a realistic exchange rate, and reduce government subsidies
would have negative short-term impacts on the welfare of many Guyanese.
2.          SIMAP was therefore designed as an emergency mechanism to
complement the ERP. The first phase of SIMAP sought an immediate response to
economic hardships through an income transfer scheme to provide income
supplements to vulnerable groups, defined as old age pensioners, pregnant and
lactating mothers and children under five years old. The second phase of
SIMAP has involved the financing of sm&ll-scale projects to assure essential
investments in infrastructure and social services at a time of falling
government resources, thereby creating temporary employment and creating a
safety net of primary health care and nutrition supplements to the most
vulnerable groups.
3.          SIMAP was designed by the Government as an emergency stop-gap
mechanism which would be phased out. Due to its emergency nature SIMAP was
granted semi-autonomous status from the public sector structure and was
exempted from several regulations such as having to adhere to the civil
service salary scale. Moreover, many of SIMAP's responsibilities in principal
should be carried out by the line ministries or local governments including
the financing of rehabilitation of public infrastructure, such as roads,
schools and water supply systems, and the provision of inputs to the public
health system.
the Phasing Out of SIMEl
4.          Assuming the success of SIMAP in carrying out these functions, two
questions arise. First, what are the justifications for the phasing out of
SIMAP? And second, what are the mechanisms for transferring the
responsibilities temporarily assumed by SIMAP back to the appropriate
government agencies? To respond to the first question, the role of SIMAP must
be seen in conjunction with other elements of the Government's overall
strategy. While SIMAP is to address the short-term social costs of the
economic policies being implemented by the Government, these economic measures
are designed to deliver benefits in terms of increased production and



- 64 -
Page 2 of 4
productivity, increased economic opportunities and a more solid fiscal
position. Coupled with these macroeconomic measures, the Government is
instituting a broad policy of reforming the public sector, including
privatization of many state enterprises, a recent restructuring of public
agencies scaling down from eighteen ministries to eleven, and longer range
policies for increasing public revenues and adjusting public sector salary
scales and incentives to respond to the pervasive manpower shortages.
5.          In addition to these medium-term policies which will limit the
need for an agency such as SIMAP, SIMAP itself is ill-suited to function
beyond its emergency scope. As an emergency institution SIMAP can provide
stop-gap financing, however over the longer term SIMAP will duplicate
functions of other government agencies. SIMAP has a project-driven approach
which allows for the rapid flow of public investment during a time of economic
crisis. However, for efficient public sector planning and investment and to
implement sector strategies, a program approach will be necessary. For
example, SIMAP will finance short-term stocking of essential drugs and
supplies in health centers. To assure sustainability of these services, the
Government (through the Ministry of Health) will need to consolidate a program
for essential drug distribution which includes appropriate user fees,
logistical systems, monitoring and supervision mechanisms on a national scale.
SIMAP does not have the mandate or the capacity to design and carry out these
longer-term policies.
6.          Given the need for a phase-out of SIMAP, the second question of
how this is to be done is best analyzed sector by sector. IDA support to
SIMAP focuses on health, nutrition and water and sanitation; the transferring
of SIMAP activities in these sectors are foreseen as follows:
Health Activities. SIMAP's support in stabilizing the delivery of
primary health care services in the short-term will be backed up in
particular by two programs to be implemented in the Ministry of Health.
The IDB has approved a US$31 million project to rehabilitate the
Georgetown Hospital, improve the supply of essential drugs to the health
system and improve the management of the Ministry of Health. The IDA
support to SIMAP includes the preparation of a complementary investment
project through the MOH to ensure the sustainability of the primary
health care system.
Nutrition Activities. SIMAP will finance emergency nutrition projects
which will provide a valuable pilot experience for the shaping of a
national nutrition program. At the end of 1994, the Government (through
SIMAP with IDA technical assistance) will assess: (i) the general
country situation (agricultural production, income levels, price indexes
and prevailing malnutrition rates); and (ii) the impact and cost-
effectiveness of SIMAP's efforts in nutrition. Based on this analysis,
a national nutrition program will be designed taking into account the
availability of food donations and the absorptive capacity of the public
sector budget. Preparation of the proposed IDA health project will
include support in the implementation of this national strategy.



- 65 -
QAZ
Page 3 of 4
Water and Sanitation Activities. The bulk of SIMAP's efforts in this
sector involve financing small projects in the repair and rehabilitation
of existing systems. These are activities that for lack of manpower and
financing have been left unattended by municipal and regional
governments and the national water company (GUYWA). To address longer-
term sector issues, the IDB will finance a project which will provide
institutional strengthening to GUYWA, review national water tariff
policies and cost recovery mechanisms and prepare a master plan for
water supply, sewerage and drainage for the greater Georgetown area and
identify investment needs for regional schemes. The master plan is
expected to be in place by the end of 1993.
General Considerations
7.          The strategy outlined above assures that the responsibilities
temporarily undertaken by SIMAP will be transferred back to sector ministries
more able to continue them on a long-term basis. However, the plan for the
phasing out of SIMAP should also consider how to take advantage of the rich
experience SIMAP will accumulate in such areas as project appraisal and
execution, management information systems, the use and control of private
sector contractors, the experience of working with grassroots organizations
and NGOs and other areas of expertise which will evolve throughout the life of
SIMAP.
S.          As part of its wrap-up activities, SIMAP will systematize the
lessons learned from its experience and carry out a program for disseminating
this information. Such a program could include written materials, seminars,
short-term in-service training of public sector staff or other appropriate
mechanisms to be identified by the Government.
9.          In terms of what happens to SIMAP itself, the staff, office
equipment, computers and vehicles, the Government will need to review this
issue as part of the phase out plan. A number of alternatives can be
imagined:
(i)   SIMAP is closed, the staff is disbanded to follow a
natural process of integration into the public and
private sectors and the physical assets are distributed
to other public agencies (or channelled into the medium-
term follow-on investment projects planned by the
international agencies financing SIMAP);
(ii)    part of the SIMAP staff and equipment is transferred to
the State Planning Agency to assist line ministries in
screening project proposals and identifying international
donor financing (to capitalize on SIMAP's experience with
project appraisal and its contacts with the international
donor community); and



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
(iii)   SIMAP evolves into an agency of the Government to support
grassroots initiatives through the financing of small-
scale self-help projects, filling in gaps of coverage by
the line ministries with activities carried out by NGOs
and community groups.
10.         At this point, these alternatives are purely speculative.  In
addition, other ideas will surely emerge as SIMAP evolves.
Preparation of a Phase Out Plan for SIMAP
11.         The Government must present a SIMAP phase out program to its
financiers which elaborates on the following points:
(i)   a detailed plan for the transfer of SINAP
responsibilities back to the corresponding government
agencies, including an evaluation of these agencies'
capacities to reabsorb these responsibilities;
(ii)    a program to systematize and disseminate the lessons
learned from the SIMAP experience;
(iii)    a plan for the closure/transformation of SIMAP itself;
and
(iv)   a timetable for the phase out of SIMAP.



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS IN THE SIMAP MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM
The management information system established by SIMAP will track the
following basic information:
Finance/Administration
Resources Committed to SIMAP, Amount and Source
Administrative Costs, by Type (salaries, transportation, office overhead,
etc.)
Technical Assistance, Amount Committed and List of Contracts Disbursements,
Amount by Financing Source
Sub-Projec t Information
Sub-Project Cycle:
Date of Sub-Project Registration by SIMAP
Date of Evaluation Site Visit
Date of Approval By the Board of Directors
Date of Commencement of Implementation
Date of Sub-Project Conclusion
Average Time Elapsed in Each Phase
Basic Sub-Project Data:
Project Name
Project Code Number (reflecting category/sub-category/ID #)
Name of Sponsoring Agency
Name of Supervisor, if applicable
Location of Project (region, rural/urban, location name)
Poverty Index (indicator may vary by type of sub-project)
Total Project Cost
Amiount Financed by SIMAP
Counterpart Financing, by Source and Amount
Estimated Duration of Execution
Physical Targets (e.g., square meters of construction, amount of water
delivered/day, number of latrines, number of nutrition supplements/meals,
number of health posts equipped, etc.)
Estimated Cost per Physical Unit
Estimated Number of Beneficiaries
Estimated Cost Per Beneficiary
Amount of Disbursements to Sub-Project
Percentage of Sub-Project Executed
Percentage Delay in Sub-Project Execution
Changes in Contract Amount During Execution



-68 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
GUYXANA
SIVAP/EHILTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REVIEW CRITERIA
SIMAP's annual review will be an essential instrument in the process of
planning and implementation of project activities and will constitute the key
monitoring tool for the proposed project. During the review process, project
implementation progress indicators as well as technical assistance activities
and studies will be reviewed against quantitative targets defined below (see
Part A). These targets were agreed during negotiations and included in a
supplemental letter to the Development Credit Agreement. In addition to
evaluating progress in reaching the targets defined in the implementation plan,
the review process will assess progress related to a number of project areas
(see Part B).
PART A - IMPLEMENTATION ILAN
L.    KeY Monitoring Indicators tOuantLtative Targets)
Schedule of Sub-grojects -o be implemented 1991-95 (Part B of the Project)
1.          Under the HealthZ/NtrJitn Sub-Component:
June 1991-June 1992: 4 Sub-projects'
July 1992-June 1993: 20 Sub-projects
July 1993-June 1994: 30 Sub-projects
July 1994-June 1995: 20 Sub-projects
2.          Under the DAX Ce Sub-Component:
June 1991-June 1992: 7 Sub-projects'
July 1992-June 1993: 4 Sub-projects
July 1993-June 1994: 2 Sub-projects
July 1994-June 1995: 2 Sub-projects
Already under implemeneetion with financlng of PPP P680-GtIJ.
Sao SFoonote IL



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
3.          Under the Water and Sanitation Sub-Component:
June 1991-June 1992:  2 Sub-projects (Water Supply)
60 Sub-projects (Basic Sanitation)
1 Sub-project (Drainage)"'
July 1992-June 1993:  7 Sub-projects (Water Supply)
30 Sub-projects (Basic Sanitation)
7 Sub-projects (Drainage)
July 1993-June 1994:  15 Sub-projects (Water Supply)
20 Sub-projects (Basic Sanitation)
10 Sub-projects (Drainage)
JuLy 1994-June 1995:  10 Sub-projects (Water Supply)
20 Sub-projects (Basic Sanitation)
10 Sub-projects (Drainage)
Number of Beneficiaries Covered Under the Food SuonleMentation-Scheme
(Part B of the Project)4/
4.    June 1991-June 1992:    1,600 (children 6 months-2 years)
400 (malnourished children 2 years-5 years)
800 (Pregnant and Lactating Women)
July 1992-June 1993:    9,600 (children 6 months-2 years)
2,400 (malnourlshed children 2 years-5 years)
4,800 (pregnant and lactating women)
July 1993-June 1994:   20,000 (children 6 months-2 years)
5,000 (malnourished children 2 years-5 years)
10,000 (pregnant and lactating women)
July 1994-June 1995:   20,000 (children 6 months-2 years)
5,000 (malnourished children 2 years-5 years)
10,000 (pregnant and lactating women)
aI soe Footnote IL
4 All proprm vill hAve at least a duration of 24 months.



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
II.   Technical Assistance Activities and Studies
Institutional Development Component (Part A of the Project)
5.          Strengthening Administrative and Accounting Systems:  Consultant
(1 man-month) to complete mission by September 30, 1992. Report with findings
and recommendation to be sent to IDA no later than October 31, 1992.
6.          Management Information Systems:  Consultant(s) (3 man-months) to
complete missions by November 30, 1992; November 30, 1993; and November 30,
1994. Consultant(s) (24 man-months) to prepare progress/system implementation
reports no later than November 1, 1992; November 1, 1993; and November 1, 1994.
7.          Poverty Targeting:  Consultant (1 man-month) to complete mission by
January 31, 1993. Report with findings and recommendations to be sent to IDA no
later than February 28, 1993.
8.          Unit Cost Data Base:  Consultant (1 man-month) to complete mission
by November 30, 1992. Report with findings and recommendations to be sent to
IDA no later than December 31, 1992.
9.          Operations Manual:  Consultant(s) (3 man-months) to complete
missions by February 28, 1993; February 28, 1994; and February 28, 1995. Report
with findings and recommendations (and possibly changes to be introduced in the
operations manual) to be sent to IDA no later than March 31, 1993; March 31,
1994; and March 31, 1995.
10.         Food Supplementation:  Consultant(s) (3 man-months) to complete
missions by September 30, 1992; September 30, 1993; and September 30, 1994.
Report with findings and recommendations to be sent to IDA no later than October
31, 1992; October 31, 1993; and October 31, 1994. Consultant(s) (26 man-months)
to prepare bi-annual reports on implementation aspects and evaluation of impact
of food supplement program.
11.         Sub-Project Implementation:  Implementation Specialist(s) should be
in Guyana no later than October 1992 (12 man-months) to assist SIMAP in
reviewing sub-project implementation arrangements and overall appropriateness of
SIMAP promotion, appraisal and monitoring procedures.
12.         Phase-Out Plan:  Consultant(s) (2 man-months) to complete missions
by December 31, 1994; and December 31, 1995. Reports including a detailed
implementation plan and progress in execution of the phase-out plan should be
submitted no later than January 31, 1995 and January 31, 1996, respectively.



- 71 -
ANNvEX 9
Page 4 of 5
Health Policy DevelOM e2nt GOmMonnt (Part D of the Project)
13.         Analysis of opidemiological profile, access to and coverage of
health services; analysis of health infrastructure, maittenance systems,
medical equipment, drugs and supplies, and transportation; and analysis of
organizational and staffing arrangements and management systems: Technical
assistance, and studies to be completed and submitted to IDA no later than
December 31, 1993.
14.         Definition of health priorities and target groups; institutional,
staffing and management arrangements; and definition of a health sector
investment program: Technical assistance and studies to be completed and
submitted to IDA no later than June 30, 1994.
15.         Definitlon of a solid portfolio of projects in the health sector for
external financing: Technical assistance and studies to be completed and
submitted to IDA no later than December 31, 1994.
PART B - REVIEW CRITERIA
(1) Efficieney of SIMAP Operations and SIMAP Sub-Projects
(a)   number and amount of sub-projects approved per week;
(b)   number of sub-projects in execution;
(c)   amount of monthly disbursements;
(d)   rate of delays in sub-project execution;
(e)   administrative costs as a percentage of total SIMAP budget;
(f)   number of physical units completed (i.e., health centers
rehabillitated, water supply or drainage systems expanded and/or
rehabilitated, quantities of food delivered);
(g)   number of beneflciaries reached;
(h)   geographical distribution of sub-projects; and
(i)   cost per unit delivered and cost per beneficiary.
(2) Procurement and Audits
(a)   findings of the procurement auditor for shopping and direct
contracting procedures;
(b)   random ex-post review of contracts for works under US$100,000
equivalent purchased under LCB and of contracts for works and goods
purchased under shopping and direct contracting procedures; and
(c)   annual audit reports.



- 72 -
Page 5 of 5
(3)   Administration and Operational Procedures
(a)   staffing and compensation package of SIMAP staff;
(b)   sub-project promotion procedures;
(c)   sub-project appraisal procedures;
(d)   sub-project supervision procedures;
(e)   Board's role and functions; and
(f)   operations manual.
(4)   Technical Assistance
(a)   nature, scope and recommendations of technical assistance received
during the previous year;
(b)   program of technical assistance for the following year; and
(c)   final terms of reference for scheduled technical assistance.
(5)   Budget and Annual Program
(a)   SIMAP's budget; and
(b)   SIMAP's annual program (this should include the identification of a
portfolio of solid sub-projects expected to be financed during the
following year).
(6)   Phase-out Plan and Development of Policy Framework for the Health Sector
(a)   programs and actions undertaken by Government to guarantee
sustainability of sub-project activities carried out by SIMAP and to
guarantee a smooth institutional and programmatic transfer of
responsibilities to permanent Government agencies;
(b)   consultant recommendations for the development of an institutional
and policy framework for the health sector;
(c)   program for phase-out activities as well as for policy development
of the health sector to be undertaken the following year; and
(d)   project proposals in the health sector for external financing (last
two years of the project);
(7) Monitoring and Evaluation
(a)   implementation of the LSMS component;
(b)   targeting mechanisms;
(c)   results of LSMS survey and assess impact of SIMAP Program (fourth
year of the project); and
(d)   results of the malnutrition survey.



-  7N3 -                                                   NEX-0
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Local>' , ^' ' ' Foreign  ' TotAi 1A        Lo0al          For tein     -Totl    %
Amount;  % -mont               U     Total  Amount '       '  o    ;"';
Mililone of GuYS                            millions of US$
. Health and NutrIiton
-civil works
(rehab. of health centers)  81e60  eo.0    20.40  20.0  102.00   i.3    0.68  80.0    0.17  20.0    0.85           7.3
non-medlcal equipment.
supplies & furniture        12.00  50.0    12.00  50.0   24.00   1.7    0.10  50.0    0.10  50.0    0.20           1.7
medical equipment
suppilee& drugs             39.60  25.0   118.80  75.0  158.40  11.3    0.33  25.0    0.99  75.0    1.32          11.3
- Food                       240.00  100.0    0.00   0.0  240.00  17.1    2.00  100.0    0.00   0.0    2.00        17.1
Subtotal Health & NutrItion  373.20  71.2   151.20  28.8  524.40  37.4    3.11  71.2    1.28  28.8    4.37         37.4
2. Day-Care centers
-lvil works                  22.08  80.0      5.52  20.0   27.60   2.0    0.18  60.0    0.05  20.0    0.23          2.0
- equipment                  16.80  70.0      7.20  30.0   24.00   1.7    0.14  70.0    0.06  30.0    0.20          1.7
food                        89.60  100.0     0.00   0.0   89.60   5.0    0.58  100.0    0.00   0.0    0.58         5.0
Subtotal Day-Car. Centers   108.48  89.5    12.72  10.5  121.20   8.8    0.90  69.5    0.11  10.5    1.01           68.
8. Water & Sanitation
watertupply                108.00  50.0   108.00  50.0  218.00  15.4    0.90   50.0    0.90  50.0    1.80         15.4
baalc anitation             81.20  85.0    10.80  15.0   72.00   5.1    0.51   85.0    0.09   15.0    0.60         5.1
wastewater dralnage         57.60  40.0    88.40  80.0  144.00  10.3    0.48  40.0    0.72  80.0    1.20          10.3
Subtotal Water & Sanitation  228.80  82.5   205.20  47.5  432.00  30.8    1.89  52.5    1.71  47.5    3.80         30.8
4. Technical Assistance
to partcipating SAs          18.80  70.0      7.20  30.0   24.00   1.7    0.14  70.0    0.06  30.0    0.20          1.7
Subtotal SMAP Sub-projote   728.28  84.    375.32  34.2  110.60  78;    ..0.4< 85*         3.1a .. 34.2   #.0      d --78
I.l INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                                                                ___;_-____:_.
1 SIMAP Admlnlstrtaton
-salaes                      48.00  1000      0.00   00.   48.00   3.4    OAO  1000      0.00    0.0    0.40        3.4
travel, training             8.00  50.0      8.00  50.0   12.00   0.9    0.05  50.0    0.05  50.0    0.10          0.9
operating expenditures      42.00  100.0     0.00   0.0   42.00   3.0    0.35  100.0    0.00   0.0    0.35         3.0
Subtotal AdministratIon      98.00  94.1      8.00   5.9  102.00   7.3    0.80  94.1    0.0b   5.9    0.85          7.3
2. Equlpment. vehicles
and maintenance
equipment                    0.00   0.0     7.20  100.0    7.20   0.5    0.00   0.0    0.08  100.0    0.06        0.5
-vehicles                     0.00   0.0    21.60  100.0   21.80   1.5    0.00   0.0    0.18  100.0    018         1.5
- malntenanG4                 3.60  100.0    0.00   0.0    3.80   0.3    0.03  100.0    0.00   0.0    0.03         0.3
Subtotal EquIpment.
vehicles and malntenance      3.80  11.1    28.80  88.9   32.40   2.3    0.03  11.1    0.24  88.9    0.27           2.3
3. Technical Assistance        40.50  45.0    49.80  55.0   90.00   6.4    0.34  45.0    0.41  55.0    0.78           8.4
Subtotal SIMAP fnst. 8upport   40.10  62.;4  ao0    a7.0  224A0  18.0    t.17  0.4  :'            ..       1*        1
Ill. LaMa a MORBID. SURVEY. E.
I. S0.0 100.0 0t00   00.    9.60    0.7    008  100.0    000   00                                         0.08       0.7
2. Equlpment                    0.72  20.0      288  60.0    3.60   0,3    001I  20.0    0.02  o0o0    0.03          0.8
8. Operational Expenditures     6.40 100.0     0.00   0.0    8.40   0.6    0.07 100.0    0.00   0.0    0.07          0.6
4. Technical Aislastnce         2.88  20.0    11.52  80.0   14.40   1.0    0.02  20.0    0.10  60.0    0.12           1.0
SubtotalLSMS&111torb.Survey    21.60  00.0    14.40  40.0   30.00   2.e       "a8  e0o0    o.1t2  40.0  . 0.0  :....2.3
IN. HEALTH SECT. POLICYEVT,          ===_=_=
1. TechnIcal AssIstance        8.40  20.0    33.60  80.0   42.00   3.0    0.07  200    0.28  80.0    0.35            3.0
Subtotal Health S8ct. PalIcy Devp    8.40  20.0    33.80 e0.0   42.00   8.)    0.07  2c.0    06  0- °-                3
~~ 895.30  63.61   806*2  88.2  1404.00 ~~~~100.0     7.40 863.8    4.24;. 36*4 *: 1 .70..... i..



- 74 -                            ANNEX1I
SIMAPIHEALUH. NUTRMON. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJEe T
FINANCING PLAN
(USS Million)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... . .., , sj . >
Healfth & Nutiion                0.08       0.10               4.19      4.37
Day Care  nters                  0.10       0.27               0.64      1.01
Water and Santation              0.2D       0.20        -      3.20      3.60
Technical Assistance                -                          0.20      0.20
to Patcipating SAs
Sub-Total, SIMAP Subprojects          0.38       0.57     0.00      8.23      9.18
.......................
Acdninistratlon                  0.15          -      0.15     0.55      0.85
Equipment, Vehicles
and Maintenanoo                     -         -         -      0.27      0.27
Technical Assistane                 -                 0.15     0.60      0.75
Sub-Total, SIMAP Insttutional Suppof  0.15          -     0.30      1.42      1.87
Salaes                                   -              -      0.08      0.08
Equipment                           ,         *                0.03      0.03
Operating Expenditures                                  *      0.07      0.07
Technlcal Assistance                -                          0.12      0.12
Sub-Total, LSMS & Morb. Survey           .                   *      0.30      0.30
f%     ,,)th Sector ,oly         . '-:- 's t. .. .- ..                    .
Technical Assistance                                    -      0.35      0.35
Sub-Total, Health Sector Policy Devpt.                              0.35      0.35
W E A L        ......... i . i .... >>is.:   S  .  s   . ...........  .. ...   ..... ... . 
% of TOTAL                              4.5       4.9       2.6     88.0    100.0
f



ANNEX 12
-75-                            PageI of 2
GUYANA
SIMAPIHEALTH. NUTRMON. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table 1: DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester
1st (July '91 - Dec '91)              0.30       0.30      2.9         1
2nd (Jan '92 - June '92)              0.45       0.75       7.3        2
ist (July '92- Dec '92)               0.90       1.65     1W.0         3
2nd (Jan '93 - June '93)              1.25       2.90      28.2        4
1st (July '93 - Dec '93)              1.40       4.30      41.7        5
2nd (Jan '94 - June '94)              1.40       5.70      55.3        6
1st (July'94 Dec'94)                  1.40       7.10      68.9        7
2nd (Jan '95 - June '95)              1.35       8.45      82.0        8
lst (July '95 - Dec '95)              0.95       9.40      91.3        9
2nd (Jan '96 June '96)                0.90      10.30     100.0       10
Closing Date: June 30, 1996        at PPF Resources only
bJ Special Account Included



76-                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 od2
G_UYAN
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRMl1ON. AND WATER AND SANITAlTON PROJECT
Table 2: DIS&URSEMENTALLOCA;TONS
m           ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .., ,...,.
Category
(a) CMi Works                         690,000          95% of eligible expedtures
(b) Non-medical Equipmet              110,000
Supplies & Furnture
(c) Medical Equipment                 330,000
Supplies & Drugs
(c) Food                            2,150,000
etr..rs ......
(a) Cmi Works                         140,000          80% of eligibl expenditures
(b) Equipment                         12D,000
(c) Food                              450,000
0. Sub-aDjt for Wter 8 0antadon       ..     ..                 : -::       .-::      .
(a) Water Supply                     1,600,000         95% of eligible expenditures
(b) Basic SanitatIon                  310,000
(c) Wastewater Dranage                960,000
4. TechnIcl A tac toParIpatin    g SA         .      .: .         .                      ...;.:.
(a) Tecnical Assistanc                190,000          100% of eligible expenditres
5.6 SIMAP tnstitutioat Support
(a) Salaries, Travel, Training,       510,000          10096 of eligible expenses
and Operating Expenses
(b) Equipment, Vehicles and           150,000
MU Intenanoe
(c) Technical Assistance              420,000          100% of eligible expendtures
for consultants' services, rvel,
expenses and per diem
6  $MS '&Morbidity ...:y
(a) Salares                            80,000          100% of eligible expenditures
(b) Equipment                          30,000
(c) Operational Expenditures           70,000
(d) Technical Assistance              100,000          100% of eligible expenditures
for consuitants' services, travel,
expenss and perdbm
(a) Achnial Assistance                350,000          100% of elible expenditures
for consulta' servis, travel,
expenses and oer dim
....... .. 750,000  .   100% of eligible expexaures
790,000
Total                           10,300,000           .



- 77 -
ANEX 13
siNPEALUTN. RUTEITION. AlD UATER AMe SANITATION PRQYECT
INPLEJENTATION SCNHULE
ESTINATED AMMJA COUAM           flu  OT-ER PANNTS
(USS million equivalent)
Pre-             Project Years                 Total
Project Eloments              Project       1      2       3    4             Pay)ent    RemArks
Cr2dit T1f1na
SiginEffect/Close                                   **
vorks
Heatth FacfLities                         0.20  0.20  0.20  0.15             0.75   Shopping
Day Care Centers                          0.04  0.05   0.05  0.04            0.18   Shopping
Construction                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Water Supply
Prequal/DId/Award           ...                  ...  ...    .......
Construction                              0.30  0.70   0.50  0.30            1.60   LCB
Waste Water Drainage                      0.20  0.30  0.30   0.30            1.10  LCD/Shopping
.)O(x....Kxx.... x.... xxx
Sanitation                                0.05   0.20  0.15   0.10           0.50  Shopping
x xx x xxxx xx x xxxx xxxxxx xx xx
Medical Eq./Drugs                         0.2_  0.50  0.50   0.07            1.32   Shopping
Non-Medical Eq/Supplies                   0.10  0.10  0.10  0.08             0.38  Shopping
HIS/Vehicles                              0.05  0.05  0.02                   0.12   Shopping
xxx... xxx.....xxxx... xxxx
Food                                      0.65  0.65   0.65   0.63           2.58   Shopping
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ConsuLtorcRes
Procurement Agency/
Audit Firm                               0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06             0.24   Precondition
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistnce                         0.25  0.26  0.26   0.26            1.03
xxx .... xxxx.... xxx .... xxx
Slteresea/fer.Exaenses
SINAP Agency                              0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20             0.80  SalarIes
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Surveys                                   0.04  0.04   0.04  0.03            0.15
xxx.... xxx .... xxx.... xxxx
"Ujietemmu
PPF RffinancWng                           0.75                               0.75
xxxx
Totals                                      3.14   3.31  3.03  2.22           11.70
(IDA Financed)                              (2.90)(2.80) (2.75) (1.65)       (19.30)



- 78 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
GUYANA
SIMAPLHEALTH. NUTRITION. AND WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AV4IIABL IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Guyana Country Program 1990-94 Plan of Operations, United Nations
Children Fund, 1989.
A.2   A National Food and Nutrition Policy for the Cooperative Republic
of Guyana, The Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education,
Environment and Food Policy (GAHEF), May 1991.
A.3   Targeting Vulnerables in Guyana, Deo Rampraskash, UNDP Consultant,
October 1990 and October 1991 (Update).
A.4   Health Conditions in Guyana, Ministry of Health with PAHO/WHO,
J-une 1989.
A.5   Guyana-Health Care II Project, Project Document Inter-American
Development Bank, 1989.
A.6 An Environmental Profile of Guyana and a Programme for
Environmental Management, The Guyana Agency for Health Sciences
Education, Environment and Food Policy, Nov. 1990.
A.7   Guyana, List of Projects for External Financing, 1992-95, Document
of the World Bank, June 7, 1991.
A.8   Guyana A Third Technical Assistance Project, World Bank, June 7,
1990.
A.9   Project Proposal Monitoring and Improving the Nutritional Status
of Pre-School Children in Guyana. MinLstry of Health with
PAHO/WHO, October 1989.
A.10 Guyana-Second Structural Adjustment Credit, World Bank, June 7,
1990.
A.ll Guyana Nutrition Education Community Project, the Guyana Agency
for Health Sciences Education, April 1991-March 1992.
A.12 Food Supplementation in Guyana, Fernando Vio, October 1991.



-79 -                    ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
A.13 "Health and Nutrition situation in Guyana, Back-to-Office Reports
by Fernando Vio, Consultant (February 1991, April 1991, June 1991
and October 1991).
A.14  "Food Production, Distribution and Pricing in Guyana", Mission
Report, April 1991.
B.    Selected ReDorts and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1   "Operational Manual (lst Draft), The SIMAP Agency, August 1991.
B.2   "Stormwater Drainage", M.D. Haigh (Consultant) for the SIMAP
Agency, October 1991.
B.3   "Water Supply and Sanitation", K.D.R. Houston (Consultant) for the
SIMAP Agency, September 1991.
*B.4 Sample Bidding Documents for International Competitive Bidding and
Local Competitive Bidding for the purchase of Goods Under the
Proposed Project", September 1991.
B.5   Monitoring and Supervision of Sub-Project Implementation, Social
Impact Amelioration Program, Renata Claros, July 1991.
B.6  Guyana's Health and Nutrition Intervention, Fernando Vio, July
1991.
C.    Selected Working PaDers
C.    "Institutional Arrangements', Back-to-Office Reports by Julle Van
Domelen, Dec. 1990, Feb. 1991, April 1991, June 1991, July 1991
and October 1991.
C.2   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance under the
Institutional Development and Project Preparation Components of
the Proposed Project, Fernando Vio, July 1991 and Julle Van
Domelen, July 1991.
C.3   List of Drugs for Local I and II Care.
C.4   Implementation of an MIS System for the SIMAP Agency, Ivan Krsul,
July 1991.



I B R D 11683RI
_3,  *  <¢94orawhono                                                                                    SlARCe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~979
o kAa - ~GUYAN A
{f     t>.tr°*lt3^tA            T<si'mvako
'i B3AIIIIIA  /    ^. ,                  kwobabinna           CHARITY      CQ
>   {        S     T    O                      Ors l      ^4 AW~~~~~~~~~~V&A REGINA
1,                      9       ~~~~~~~~~~~ADVENTUPtJI
SUPENAAIo    4eoo  sn
;tMkP.      v                  SEU8                PARIKA  UITFtUGT        
S -b Pt,, _ GiQ~~~~~~~RGETowN e
f                                                          E     Z    Slu:~~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~A.AICA   ,
< u,,                                                         KARTABU PIN  PH                                    NE AMSTERDIbRD AM
v   YAMARAN;v,,,,,                                   /         |  At  iS         >9>,       {~~~~~~~~~~~~NMAR
7 ; * KAtEIEDR r A?WARUK \ ,~~~~~So' 1S',ANCI                                                   A9
T;.   ; : .    . . . ..... ...
./                                 POTARO                                      {     
/       l oR.N!)Ult~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i    s       'S                '\                      /                       j;,         .~~~~~ANDNC
C  *#Xa.  MoNKE? Mt                                   ! 0                v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IAlluvial Cc,ost Areas  *5               -         \                                            '2
I IForeSted Areas                C>        /         \/V 
L      SQvonnoh                           r{                             
-   Moiin Roads                                       .SRA a                               1s
- Secondory Roads                                                                  ,                                                                ANI t(4°-
Rcilroods                                   ;                               I'APOIER'  >
t  Airfields                                  ,r,              '         -
Rivers                                  i   iO 
- - Internotional Boundaries                *    Of;'fffk'                                           S       Z
ECONOMIC ACTIVITIE ,  /rS 
[6   Crops /Posture         OilI e'  !f 
M;l#                         ;\   !AW4RUWAIUNAWA                                                                        ;
0     20      0    6       If                                °AISHALitON 
rs.~O   rz oe.*sw;he^                       4            -t-UMIDPAU; 
PANAMA                     F,                                                                              
t>  VENEZUELA r' °'i'   ,,'                   .,.
'I to81 I   4S'  5,x               osfs,                
O  B  C >.  v  Sf                    >.                  ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~      ~    ~~GUNN S STRIP  r-,
f>, ,<, J   S  R  A   Z   I  .           j                                                         89>  81   R   A,- Z   I  l
E     i'EotiviA>,./,                                      , ,,           9-    



