Docuwmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5690-GUA Type: (PM)                           Repq N   P-5690-GUA
COLL, X.  / X31987 / I-5169/ LA3HR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 7.5 MILLION
TO
GUYANA
FOR A
SINAP/HEALTH, NUTRITION, WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
t
APRIL 2, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offrcial dutims Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CU$RENCY FOUIVAIENTS
(as of November 1991)
Currency Unit      Guyana Dollar (G$)
US$1.0      G$120.00
G$1.0 O    US$0.00833
FISGAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM     Caribbean Community
CDB         Caribbean Development Bank
CEM         Country Economic Memorandum
CESW        Country Economic and Sector Work
CET         Common External Tariff
CGCED       Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
EEC         Economic European Community
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
EP          Emergency Program
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
ESF         Economic and Social Fund
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
GOG         Government of Guyana
GUYSUCO     Guyana Sugar Company
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LSMS        Living Standards Measurement Survey
MCSA        Ministry of Culture and Social Assistance
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MMR         Maternal Mortality Rates
MOH         Ministry of Health
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PNC         People's National Congress
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PSIP        Public Sector Investment Program
SIMAP       Social Impact Amelioration Program and Agency
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FO1R OMCIAL USE ONLY
IKUAP/HEJTH. NUTRITION. AXD WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
C]EMIT ASD PR      T SUMRY
Borrouer:            Government of Guyana (GOG)
gnsfgiciarxea:       Target groups in rural and urban poverty areas, in
particular women in child bearing age and children under
five years of age, to be reached through NGOs, grass
roota organizations and local governments.
Amount:              SDR 7.5 million (US$10.3 million equivalent)
Term*:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlendfine Terma:    The GOG will pass on the ftmds to SIMAP.  SIMAP will
finance sub-projects through NQOs, grass roots
organizations and local governments on a grant basis.
linaneing plan:      IDA                    US$10.30    million  (88.0X)
Government             US$ 0.53    million  ( 4.51)
Beneficiaries          US$ 0.57    million  ( 4.9X)
IDB                    USS Q.30    millign  ( 2.61)
Total                  US$JJl_l    million  (1001)
kconomi-c PAte
of Return:           Not applicable
Staff AgMrisal
122ort:             No. 10146-GUA
mm                  IBRD 11683R1
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipituts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witheut Wcrld Bank authorization.



ME1ORANVDU AND RECOAUENDATION OF THE PRESIDEWN
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DmLoEENNT ASSOCIATIOt.
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CRFDIT TO
GUYANA
FOR A SINAPAIEAH. NUTRITION - AND NATEU AND SANITATION ZROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed development credit to Guyana for SDR 7.5 million,
the equivalent of US$10.3 million, on standard International Development
Association (IDA) terms with a maturity of 40 years. It will help finance a
project to assist the GOG in its efforts to mitigate the adverse social impact
of the adjustment process in the short-run and to formulate sustainable
policies and programs in the social sectors over the medium-term. Part I of
the document discusses Guyana's development problems and prospects, and the
key priorities of the economic reform program at the macroeconomic and sector
levels. Part II discusses the Bank Group's Assistance strategy. Part III
describes the proposed credit.
Qy2rview
1.1       Guyana's economy is based mainly on the production and export of
bauxite, sugar and rice. Agricultural activity is concentrated along the
coastal belt of the country where most of the population resides, whereas the
extensive mineral and timber resources within the densely tropical hinterland
--with the exception of bauxite mining--remain largely unexploited.  Because
of the country's topography and uneven distribution of its small population,
the country's infrastructural needs are substantial on a per capita basis.
Guyana's population, estimated at about 800,000 in mid-1990, has been
declining over the past decade as a result of a low birth rate and continuous
emigration. Economic activity has been retarded by a difficult physical
environment; by sharp fluctuations in output, stemming from the vulnerability
of the economy to exogenous factors sugh as weather and fluctuations in
international prices and demand; and, until recently, by the Government's
failure to address economic issues adequately.
1.2       Guyana has been ruled by the People's National Congress (PNC) since
its independence from Great Britain in 1966. Prior to 1988, Guyana followed a
set of economic policies characterized as "cooperative socialism." These
policies led to the domination of the public sector in the economy, and
severely distorted incentives for the private sector.  Existing private
investments were nationalized, particularly the critical sugar and bauxite
sectors, and government control extended to most financial institutions and
consumer marketing. Government controls on prices, and the rationing of
foreign exchange, also limited private sector activity and discouraged
domestic agricultural production. While economic performance showed positive
growth during the early 1970s, the collapse of sugar and bauxite prices after
the boom years of 1974/75 led to a secular decline in output, large government



-2
deficits, accelerating inflation and increased reliance on external borrowing.
While new investments were be4ng made by the public sector in the industrial
sector, traditional infrastructure was being ignored, and gradually deteriorated.
By 1988, industrial output was only 68 percent of the 1976 level. After the
devaluation of 1989, total debt was over 600 percent of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). The severe decline in real wages and living standards led to a major
migration of talented Guyanese to jobs abroad. While some attempt was made to
address these problems in the mid-l980s, the reforms were insufficient given the
magnitude of the problem. In 1986, the Government was forced to suspend payments
on external debts, both to official and private lenders. Guyana is today a
country with a 1990 per capita Gross National Product (GNP) of US$360, one of the
two lowest in the Western Hemisphere, along with Haiti.
The Adjustment Process
1.3       In mid 1988, the Government, with the assistance of Bank Group and
International Monetary Fund (IMF) staff, formulated a comprehensive Economic
Recovery Program (ERP). The main policy objectives of the Government's ERP
are to promote economic growth beyond historical levels, over the medium-term;
eliminate domestic and external imbalances in the economy; incorporate the
parallel economy into the official economy; and normalize Guyana's finanzial
relations with its external creditors. These objectives were set out in the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) reviewed by the Committee of the Whole of the
Bank in July 1988 and approved by the IMF Board during the same monthi. In
April 1989 the IMF endorsed a Fund-monitored program and in June 1990,
approved an ESAF/Standby arrangement. Also in June 1990, IDA approved a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
1.4       The ERP was a major and fundamental reversal in previous
longstanding policies, and has undertaken to eliminate distortions in
commodity and factor markets, reduce the size of the public sector, and
restore international economic relations. Few countries have mo -d so far, so
fast. Specifically, during the last three years, the Government has
eliminated almost all price controls; established a market determined floating
exchange rate for the Guyanese dollar; eliminated import licensing and reduced
tariffs; launched a major program of privatization of public assets;
introduced private sector management into the sugar industry; reduced the
numbers working for the Government, raised taxes, and reduced its reliance on
domestic credit financing of the public deficit; and eliminated its arrears to
international agencies, and agreed to a major program of rescheduling for its
bilateral debt. In addition, the Government launched a major program (Social
Impact Amelioration Program - SIMAP) to offset the social impact of the
adjustpent program by providing funds for employment generating social
projects at the local level, using contributions from external donors.
1.5       The years since 1988 have not been easy for Guyana, and the
positive impact of the ERP is only now becoming evident. In 1990, a
combination of adverse weather, strikes and power shortages produced a decline
in GDP of 3.2 percent, and an inflation rate of 65 percent. Large stocks of
deposits in the banking system, plus an increase in the velocity of money, led
to an unexpected expansion of base money, despite tight controls on credit to



-3-
the public sector. In 1991, with more of the ERP reforms in place, the
economy is estimated to have grown by about 6 percent in real terms.
Inflation, which remained high during the first half of the year, was brought
under control and reduced to average about 1 percent per month durinS the
latter part of the year. For 1992, inflation is expected to fall to about 12
percent from 102 percent in 1991, and growth to continue in the range of 4-5
percent. Major sources of growth in the past year included the sugar sector,
where output is estimated to be up by 18 percent, the result of better
weather, increased availability of inputs and spares, and introduction of
private sector management in the state-owned sugar company. Likewise, better
prices and weather resulted in an estimated 55 percent increase in rice
production. Cold exports increased by about 50 percent, largely as a result
of a decline in smuggling now that the Government's purchase price is in line
with world prices.
GUYANA - BASIC ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1975-91
(growth rates in constant prices, percent per annum)
Actual                Est.
1975-80     1980-87   1988/89  1990   1991
Cross Domestic Product                  1.0        -2.3    -2.6    -3.2     6.1
Total Consumption                       2.4        -2.5     9.1    -5.1      7.2
Gross Domestic Investment               9.9        -1.0    -7.3    18.9    10.9
Exports                                -3.0        -3.3    -9.1    -2.1    12.5
Imports                                -1.2        -4.4    -9.6    16.2    17.2
Inflation (Consumer Prices)           13.2         17.2    50.6    64.9   102.0
Population                              2.3         1.9     1.9     1.5     1.5
Source:  Statistical Bureau of Guyana, and IDA staff estimates.
Constraints on Development
1.6       The longer term outlook for Guyana, however, continues to be
constrained. Although the incentive system now provides an appropriate set of
signals to the private sector, the response of the private sector to these
signals will take some time. The country still suffers from the accumulated
cost cf past policies, including an external debt whose interest payments
alone are over 40 percent of GDP. In addition, it also suffers from a
dilapidated infrastructure, a debilitated civil service and weak institutions.
1.7       The Public Sector.  Most public sector infrastructure necessay  to
support the private sector has deteriorated to the point of non-existence.
Power and water supplies are so erratic that many large private sector firms



I,
-4-
have invested in their own generators and water sources. The road system has
deteriorated, particularly critical farm-to-market feeder roads. The sea wall
system, which protects the most productive agricultural land, has been
breached in several places and needs major reconstruction. Social services
have also significantly deteriorated. Schools lack basic repairs, books,
equipment and supplies. Hospitals operate in the absence of reliable or
working equipment, basic drugs or sufficient food, and lack the ability to
carry out simple diagnostic tests, such as X-rays or blood tests.
1.8       The erosion of the public sector's capacity to deliver services is
associated to the decline in real wages. It is estimated that real wages in
the public sector are 50 percent below what they were in 1988, which itself
was low, and are about one-third to one-fourth that being paid in the private
sector. As a consequence, talented people at all levels have left for the
private sector, or for jobs abroad, making it difficult, if not impossible,
for the public sector to function effectively.
1.9       The rebuilding of the public infrastructure, and of public sector
institutions, is a high priority for the country if it is to achieve its
growth potential. Key issues that will need to be addressed to avoid
premature deterioration of the new investments are: ensuring adequate
maintenance; and strengthening public institutions. Another major constraint
affecting the implementation of the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) is
the lack of local counterpart resources. In part, this is a result of low tax
collection and the lack of effective cost recovery mechanisms. Clearly, the
tax system will require major adjuatments, especially in broadening the base
of the consumption tax, reducing tax incentives, and improving tax
administration, now that the Government has effected major adjustments on its
recurrent expenditures. However, the fiscal situation of the Ot%vernment will
remain tight as long as interest expenditures on its external debt are not
reduced. Resources will not be available to finance priority public
investments in the absence of more concessionary debt rescheduling.
1.10      The Private Sector.  Despite its many problems, Guyana remains a
country with much potential, including a highly productive agricultural
sector, vast timber resources, and mineral resources that include bauxite,
gold and diamonds among others. The climate for private sector investment has
been greatly enhanced by the recent improvements in the incentive framework
and the Government's decision to divest its holdings in the productive
sectors. Telephone service, for example, has improved significantly after the
privatization of the formerly public sector company. Already, as noted
before, there are strong signs that the private sector is responding to the
policy changes. With recent massive devaluations, the relative cost of labor
is one of the lowest in the world. With some improvement in public
infrastructure, the country could be attractive to substantial foreign
investment. However, the present import tariff structure, although recently
reformed, is still too protective.  While it follows the Caribbean Community
(CARIGOM) Common External Tariff (GET), the top rate of 45 percent is high by
present standards in Latin America, where many countries have reduced or are
in the process of reducing tariffs to a maximum of 20 percent.



1.11       Serious attention needs to be directed toward reforming the system
of fiscal incentives, which grants firms tax holidays from the payment of
company tax, import duties and the consumption tax. The system of granting
incentives is overly discretionary and not transparent, and has a considerable
negative fiscal impact. While the system is in line with that of other
CARICOM countries, there is no evidence that it has materially increased
private investment. At the same time, It gives new firms ir. the same industry
an unfair edge over existing firms.
1.12      The financial sector is relatively underdeveloped, and continues to
be dominated by public sector institutions.  A stronger, more developed
financial system, could be instrumental in promoting private sector
development. Of the five commercial banks in the country, the chree largest
are either partly or wholly government owned. Most banks do relatively little
lending, but simply collect deposits and funnel them into the treasury bill
market. Lending and savings rates tend to follow treasury bill rates closely.
Supervision of the financial system has deteriorated in recent years owing to
insufficient technical staff.
Selected Sector Issues
1.13      Agriculture.  Guyana has a rich and potentially productive
agriculture sector, which can make a major contribution to the economy's
recovery. The Government has made significant progress in recent years in
restoring output levels of sugar and rice. The introduction of private
management in the Government's sugar company (GUYSUCO) has resulted in a
resumption of replanting, higher wages for labor, and increased output. Rice
production has directly benefitted from a decontrol of output prices,
increased availability of imported inputs, and the privatization of the public
sector rice mills. Most agricultural output is derived from a thin belt of
land close to the sea, most of which is below sea level. The protective sea
wall system is in danger of collapse, and its repair is a critical priority.
In other areas, output increases are hampered by inadequate land tenure, the
lack of agricultural credit, and inadequate research and extension. Most
farmers lack clear title to their land, or lease it from the Government, and
therefore cannot offer land as collateral for credit. Much of agricultural
land benefits from major investments in irrigation and drainage. However, the
current operations of these systems is so poor that routine maintenance is not
carried out, resulting in siltation of many drainage and irrigation canals.
The principal source of the problem is the failure of farmers to pay, and of
the Government to collect, water charges which would finance the necessary
maintenance.
1.14      Baiu%Jr.  In the past, the bauxite industry accounted for about 40
percent of merchandise exports and about 8 percent of GDP. Guyana's bauxite
deposits (comprising mainly calcined bauxite) are of unusual quality, with a
generally high alumina and relatively low impurity content. Guyana's calcined
bauxite often commands prices of up to six times higher than that of
metallurgical bauxite. Up to the 1970's Guyana enjoyed a monopolistic
position in the supply of refractory bauxite. However, as a result of a major
decline in world market prices, poor domestic management and the emergence of



- 6 -
China as a supplier of cheaper, albeit lower quality calcined bauxite,
Guyana's share of the market for bauxite products has declined. This has
resulted in a substantial 1088 of foreign exchange earnings and an erosion of
the industry's financial position which has seriously constrained the ability
to carry out adequate maintenance of plant and equipment and to finance
essential inputs required to maintain production. The Government has
recently, with Bank Group assistance, undertaken a substantial program to
restructure existing operations and is seeking to attra3t private sector
participation. In this context, it entered into a joint venture agreement
with a multinational firm in 1990 to develop a new bauxite mining area, and is
discussing a anagement contract for the mining operations at Berbice.  In
addition, the Government has started a process towards the privatization of
its main operation at Linden and as an initial step, has decided to award a
contract for its management and operation, including marketing.
Human Ressurce Development
1.15      XMyg..  It is difficult to make an accurate assessment of the
nature and extent of poverty in Guyana. Since 1980, out-migration has kept
the total population roughly constant. At the same time real GDP has fallen
24 percent and consumption spending by 22 percent. Official estimates
indicate that, in 1989, 86 percent of the population were below the poverty
line.
1.16      The percentage of public spending allocated to the social sectors
has declined significantly since the early 1980s. Recurrent spending on the
health sector, for example, accounted for 9.2 percent of public spending in
1984 and only 4.7 percent in the 1991 budget estimates. Similarly, recurrent
spending on education declined from 17.6 percent to 5.6 percent of public
spending in the same period. Levels of social sector spending are low
relative to GNP and well below levels reported for other Caribbean countries.
1.17      Educatio. Historically, Guyana has had a high quality education
system with broad population coverage. Education has been universally free at
all levels since 1976. Literacy rates have traditionally been high (currently
estimated to be around 84 percent) and coverage from pre-school to secondary
level has been broad. Reduced investments and inefficient use of resources
within the sector has meant that both human and physical infrastructure have
deteriorated significantly at all levels. Many of the qualified and
experienced teachers have been lost to emigration and other sectors and have
been replaced by unqualified staff. School buildings have not been maintained
and teaching resources are extremely limited. Daily school attendance rates
are low in many regions.
1.18     Health. The quality of health care has declined markedly over the
past decade and shortages of staffing and equipment has effectively resulted
in a contraction of services offered and a deterioration of health status
(para. 3.1). The principal reasons appear to be the fragmented organization
of the sector, lack of coordination between relevant agencies, the breakdown
of the central auditing system and lack of accountability of agencies to
client populations. The deterioration of health facilities and services at



7-
the regional level affects the entire population, but is most severe in
smaller urban areas and rural areas where health facilities lack even the most
basic drugs and diagnostic equipment. Regional hospitals and health centers
are ill-equipped in terms of staff, equipment and drugs, and are generally
bypassed by patients who seek care directly from the somewhat better funded
national hospital in Georgetown. The extremely low quality of care offered in
regional afacilities is reflected in severe underutilization of the facilities:
occupancy rates in some facilities are as low as 11 percent.
Women in DeveloDment
1.19      As a result of drastically declining household incomes, the role of
providing basic necessities has increasingly become more difi±cult to achieve.
More women have entered the labor force to compensate for lower wages and
higher male unemployment-1, consequently the social and personal difficulties
that accompany women's role in the household have given rise to an increasing
incidence of stress, abuse and health problems. Maternal mortality rates have
not improved in the past ten years, and for some socio-economic groups have
markedly deteriorated. Given the small and shrinking population of Guyana,
there is no government initiative to promote family planning, but
contraceptives are available in government health centers, and the Guyana
Responsible Parenthood Association, an NGO, is actively inmolved in the
promotion of family planning and in the distribution of contraceptives. There
is little formal sex education in schools despite high rates of teenage
pregnancies. In 1990, a UNDP-financed survey identified the needs of women in
twelve communities located outside the major cities. Potable water supply was
considered to be a priority in two-thirds of the communities surveyed. The
need for day care centers was cited in 40 percent, and nursery schools in 30
percent. Women also expressed serious concerns about income generating
activities, a concern which reflects the deteriorating economic situation
where women feel unable to provide basic necessities, such as food, for their
families.
1.20      An environmental issues paper prepared in 1989 concluded that, with
respect to basic environmental issues, Guyana has no major problems. About 75
percent of the country is still under forest, with much of the forest lands
being in a primary state, and could largely remain in that way provided that a
mechanism for sustainable management of the forests is put in place; wildlife
populations are well developed and greatly protected by the large areas of
undeveloped land; air and water quality is, for the most part, satisfactory.
However, living conditions for 90 percent of the population are marginal:
most people have only limited access to secure water and power sources and the
provision of adequate sewerage and waste disposal services are tenuous, at
best. Bauxite and gold mining activities have had some environmental impact,
1I Fata  labor participatlon lcroesed from 20Q in 1970 to 322 in 1966, while the rate for men
IOU1 from 861 to 80S.



-8-
but so far it has not been major. The authorities have indicated their
intention to address the issue.
12evelopmet A,gend
1.21      Guyana is a country blessed with substantial resources, but also
burdened with tremendous problems. Sustaining the recovery effort and
transforming it into continuous long-term growth and development will require
a major government effort. It will be essential that the Governm3nt continue
to maintain a balanced and gupporting macro-economic environle-nt, free from
the inflationary pressures of the last few years. In addition, it is
important that t'he past changes in the incentive structure be maintained, and
where possible, extended, and divestment efforts be pursued to limit
Government's role to the provision of public services. However, the major
challenges are not in the area of the incentive framework, but rather in the
urgent need to improve the functioning of the public sector and to provide an
adeguate economic and social infrastructure for development.
Debt Relief and Aid Reauirements
1.22      Guyana's future development depends heavily on continued access to
concessionary external finance, as well as concessionary debt relief.  Overall
requirements for official inflows are estimated to be about US$550 million
during the period 1992-95. Of this amount, about US$150 million is available
from existing loans, and US$400 million would have to come from new loans and
grants, or from additional debt relief. Of the total of US$550 million, about
US$160 million (29 percent) is required to finance projects in the public
investment program; the balance would have to be made available in the form of
balance of payments assistance. The large size of these requiremarnte, given
the relatively small size of the economy, suggests that additional
concessionary debt rescheduling would be the most efficient means of effecting
the necessary resource transfer. Donors should consider extending additional
debt rescheduling on terms even more concessionary than the present Toronto
terms, in light of Guyana's considerable achievements in structural adjustment
and its heavy debt service burden. A rescheduling of all outstanding
bilateral debts, including those recently rescheduled, on the more favorable
Trinidad terms, for example, would reduce the required level of inflows by
about US$180 million, from US$400 to about US$220 million.
U1. BA K GRO-UP ASSISTAICE STRATEGY
2.1       Past Assistance. Prior to the ongoing SAC, there had been no new
Bank Group lending to Guyana since 1982. Bank Group lending in the past had
supported investment operations in a variety of sectors.  The Bank Group also
provided a Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit, approved in 1981. An IMF
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was also approved in 1981. Guyana's performance
under the first year of the EFF fell short of the targets set and the ERP was
terminated in mid-1982. The improvements envisaged under the Bank Group's



-9-
program did not materialize because of the slow rate at which planned policies
were implemented, and economic performance further deteriorated. An
evaluation of Guyana's performance under the 1981 SAL/SAC (OED Report No. 6119
of March 25, 1986) identified two weaknesses: the lack of government
commitment to the basic policy thrust of the program and the lack of
institutional capacity to implement the program. Other deficiencies cited
were the inclusion of too many conditions, the unrealistic time frame for
carrying out a number of actions, and the lack of specificity in the
conditionality set out in the program. According to the OED evaluation, the
program was rushed through without sufficient appreciation of the need to have
its provisions fully considered within the Government. These lessons were
taken into account in the design of the 1990 SAC.
2.2       The Resumntion of Bank Groun AgSltranCe. The support provided by
IDA through the SAC approved in June 1990 made a critically important
contribution to the sw:cess of the Support Group in normalizing Guyana's
relations with mvltilateral creditors. The Government has responded well to
the Support Group's efforts, persevering with the ERP under very difficult
circumstances--adverse weather conditions, the Gulf oil crisis, a disaffected
population which continues to migrate abroad in large numbers--and in spite of
the fact that net inflows were very small, leaving the program very thinly
financed. After a brief hesitation in taking the final steps towards exchange
rate and price liberalization called for under the program, the Government
moved forward and actually surpassed program targets in a number of key policy
areas. The Government's firm commitment to the new market-oriented policy
direction can no longer be doubted, yet what IDA, the INF, CDB and bilateral
donors have done so far only sets the stage for the next phase of the
Government's effort which must be directed towards rehabilitation of
infrastructure, public institutions, social services and deepening the reform
agenda as outlined in paras 1.6-1.18. Moving forward in these areas will be
essential to step-up the private sector response to the improved incentive
environment and to create confidence in the population at large that
opportun!ties exist for improved living standards. To meet these challenges,
however, die Government will need a continuation of substantial amounts of
external support in the form of highly concessional loans and grants as well
as significant additional debt relief.
Gountry Assistance Strategv
2.3       The Bank Group country assistance focusses on helping the Government
move to a sustainable upward growth path and alleviate poverty by:
(a) supporting the efficient development of the private sector as
the principal engine of economic growth and source of
employment generation. This would involve: (i) support for
the Government's divestment and rehabilitation efforts in two
of the key productive sectors of the economy (bauxite and
sugar) with a view to arresting a further decline in output and
to improve the overall performance of both sectors, and (ii)
support for private sector reform and domestic deregulation;
(b) assisting in the rehabilitation of the economic and social
infrastructure needed to support the private sector and in
institutional strengthening to improve the efficiency of the
public administration;



- 10 -
(c) supporting measures to address the short term impact of the
adjustment program on vulnerable groups, to promote economic
opportunities for the poor, and to bring about the
rehabilitation of the social sectors;
(d)  through the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development (CGCED), assisting Guyana in its efforts to
mobilize the external resources needed for the implementation
of the Government's PSIP -- this must come from a combination
of concessional loans, grants and additional debt relief;
(e) assisting Guyana in addressing the issue of its commercial bank
debts through a proposed credit from the IDA Debt Reduction
Facility; and
(f) continuing to monitor the ERP, including, in particular, tax
reform and other aspects of fiscal performance through
supervision of the SAC, and thereafter through our Economic and
Sector Work (ESW) and economic dialogue.
2.4      A critical issue to be addressed in each area of our involvement is
the widespread dearth of qualified manpower to plan and implement investments.
Until the Government is able to offer a better package of incentives as a
result of increases in productivity and economic growth, all Bank Group
investment operations will have to include the financing of management and
other technical staff in the public service.
2.5       Povertv Alleviation. In order to fully understand the extent of
poverty in Guyana, the proposed project will finance a Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) and develop options for poverty alleviation which
will form the basis for the development of a comprehensive strategy for
Implementation under a proposed follow-up social sectors project. It is also
expected that through economic growth and targeted interventions, the level of
poverty will be reduced. Progress in this area will be crucial to support the
viability of the adjustment program.
2.6       Private Sector Development. A major objective of the Bank Group's
assistance strategy is to promote greater private sector participation in the
economy. In two of the traditional productive sectors (bauxite and sugar)
where performance has been weak, Bank Group assistance will support the
Government's divestment efforts to establish joint ventures, as a basis for
further assistance in the financing of the rehabilitation needs of both
sectors. Efforts will also be made to address related environmental issues,
notably in the mining sector. Progress towards the establishment of joint
ventures in both sectors has been slow because of the reluctance of potential
foreign partners to commit new money in the form of risk capital. IFC is
collaborating with IDA in support of the Government's efforts to develop a set
of appropriate financing arrangements for each sector. MIGA recently approved
its first guarantee project for Guyana and is considering a number of other
guarantee arrangements.



- 11 -
Ftaure Country LendIng flerations
2.7       Assuming the continued successful implementation of sound macro-
economic policies and adjustment measures agreed under the PFP, the planned
lending for FY92-96 will focus on the following areas:
Prvato Sector Develoment and Private Sector Reform: As stated
above, this would include operations to support the divestment
efforts and rehabilitation needs of the bauxite and sugar indust- es
and, possibly, an operation to strengthen the incentive framework
for private investments and the financial sector. These operations
will be processed in close coordination with IFC.
Inflaltructure RehabilitatLo: Bank Group assistance will focus on
measures to strengthen the institutional capacity to effectively
plan, execute and monitor sectoral investment programs in
infrastructure, including the design and devel-pment of an effective
capacity for carrying out adequate routine maintenance of existing
facilities and the introduction of effective cost recovery measures
to generate resources to support them. Bank Group assistance would
be closely coordinated with the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), EEC, and other donors that are active in the sector to ensure
maximum efficiency in the use of scarce resources. Taking into
account planned assistance programs by other donors, Bank Group
assistance is likely to focus on infrastructure rehabilitation
(roads, bridges, sea wall and drainage improvements) and water
supply and sewerage.
Human Resource Development and Poverty Alleviation. The
implementation of the proposed Health and Nutrition Project, which
is proposed below as a short-term program, would be followed by an
investment operation in human resource develorpment, aimed at
improving the Government's capacity to deliver health, nutrition and
education services, over the medium term. Since IDB has a major on-
going program for primary education, the education component of the
IDA project would focus on restoring educational quality at the
secondary level and seek to develop cost recovery mechanisms for the
sector.
Public Sector Restructuring. A program to restructure and
strengthen public administration has recently been implemented with
UK/ODA assistance. Strengthening of public institutions will be a
key objective of all Bank Group operations. A possible specific
operation to further strengthen public administration is also being
considered to support the progress already achieved.
Country Progress Criteria. In view of the tight economic situation,
continued strict adherence to the economic reform program will be
essential for the achievement of sustainable growth and poverty
alleviation. In particular, the continued implementation of sound
macroeconomic policies, including strong fiscal measures,
maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate, appropriate
pricing policies and divestment of public enterprises, will be
essential to support private sector operations and investments. The
proposed IDA lending program, discussed above, aims at providing



- 12 -
critical support for institutional development, social and economic
infrastructure and incentives for private sector development.
Progress in each of these areas will be required to support the
whole adjustment effort.
CountEr Economie and Seet=r Vork (CR) Program
2.8       The CESW Program is designed to consolidate the results achieved
under the ongoing structural adjustment program and to develop the analytical
basis for the proposed lending program. Accordingly, the up-coming Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) will focus on further measures to improve the
conditions needed for private sector development. In (non-sugar) agriculture,
where a number of other donors are active, the ongoing sector review will
analyze policy, regulatory and institutional issues with a view to focussing
the Government and donors on those key reforms and investments which, within a
constrained financial environment, would most effectively address the
constraints to productivity improvements. In addition, the Bank Group is
undertaking an infrastructure sector review, as part of project preparation,
with the objective of defining appropriate sector strategies as a basis for
future donor coordination. Finally, while the Government's ERP is helping to
make the incentive system more neutral and may increase the demand for labor,
no systematic review of its impact on emnloyment aud income ogportunities for
the poor has yet been undertaken. A ooverty study planned for FY93 will
include such an assessment and recommend what further action is needed at the
macro and sectoral levels to assure consistency between Government policies
and programs and the reduction of poverty. In the meantime, IDA is financing
preliminary work for the design of a Living Standard Measurement Survey
(ILS!S).-
Cooperation with the_IMF
2.9       The Bank Group has worked closely with the IMF in the design and
execution of adjustment operations, in formulating the lending strategy, and
in economic and sector work. Since the early 1980s, the Bank Group and the
IMF have collaborated closely in the fielding and carrying of missions and in
providing cross-mission support. Most recently, Bank Group and Fund staff
cooperated in the preparation of the Government's third year PFP. Staff of
each institution also comment extensively on each other's work, use a common
database, and liaise with each other to ensure consistent conditionality in
lending operations.
Aid Coordination and Cofinancing
2.10      Since the inception of the CGCED, the Bank Group has been playing an
active role in providing an effective framework for donor coordination and in
supporting Guyana's resource mobilization efforts. In this context and in
addition to the regular CGCED meetings, the bank Group has chaired a number of
Special Sub-Group Meetings for Guyana and participated in a tour of various
donor capitals with government officials to help mobilize support for the ERP.
In an effort to provide for a closer and more effective donor coordination in
the field, the Bank Group, in collaboration with the UNDP, has recently
established a framework for periodic reviews of donor activities and programs
on both a monthly and quarterly basis.



- 13 -
2.11      In view of existing constraints on overall IDA availabilities and
Guyana's external resource requirements, Bank Group staff will, as in the
past, continue to explore the prospects for cofinancing with other donors for
each of the above planned Bank Group operations.
2.12      Since early 1989, the Government of Guyana has moved aggressively
with the implementation of its ERP. In spite of some initial setbacks,
including adverse weather conditions and sporadic strikes, notably by workers
of the sugar industry, there are encouraging signs that the stabilization
measures under the program are already beginning to bear fruit. However,
realization of the full benefits envisaged under the ERP would require, inter
A ia, the continued implementation of sound macro-economic policies and
sustained efforts to reduce the role of the state in the economy as well as
the timely rehabilitation of the country's economic and social infrastructure
and services. Accordingly, there is a need for continued external support for
both balance of payments support and for the financing of critical investments
under the Government's PSIP, if the progress already achieved is to be
sustained. A key development constraint which would also need to be addressed
in this respect is the issue of debt relief, preferably on more concessionary
terms than the Toronto terms recently extended.
2.13      The Bank Group's assistance program will continue to focus on
efforts to monitor and deepen the adjustment process, on support for the
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure and social sectors, and on private
sector development. Because of Guyana's weak implementation capacity in all
sectors, the issue of institution building will be given special attention.
Major importance will also be attached to the need for closer coordination of
donor assistance programs in order to ensure that priority investments receive
proper attention, in the context of limited availability of resources.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
3.1       A&ikgrMnd.  Guyana's economic decline has been accompanied by a
sharp deterioration of social services. Until the early 1980s, Guyana's
social indicators compared very favorably with those of other countries in the
Latin America region. However, between 1980 and 1987, the infant mortality
rate (IMR) showed little improvement and, according to recent estimates, is
now on the increase (from 44.5 to 49 per 1,000 live births in the 1984-86
period). The maternal mortality rate (HMR) is also on the rise: between 1979
and 1984, the NMR increased from 0.4 to 0.6 per 1,000 live births. The
failure of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to address the deteriorating health
status is reflected in low immunization rates: in 1989, less than 65 percent
of all children were fully immunized. In addition, lack of investment in, and
maintenance of, basic infrastructure has resulted in contamination and
shortages in the water supply, and serious deficiencies in drainage and
sanitation services. The outcome has been a rise in the incidence of
infectious diseases: in the 1983-88 period, the reported cases of infectious
hepatitis and gastroenteritis increased by 33 percent and 205 percent,
respectively. The number of severely malnourished children under five almost



- 14 -
quadrupled between 1982 and 1987 and, in 1987, about one quarter of children
in that aSe group were moderately malnourished. Malnutrition is likely to
worsen as a result of substantial increases in food prices: during the
January 1990-March 1991 period, prices of basic food products doubled. Even
though schooling and literacy rates are generally high (the primary school
enrollment rate in 1985 was estimated at 90 percent and the secondary
enrollment rate at 55 percent), the available evidence indicates that in the
past three years, enrollment has decreased, and absenteeism has increased; for
instance, at the primary school level, average attendance is now estimated at
about 65 percent of enrollment. The deterioration of the GOG's capacity to
provide social services has been compounded by the lack of local and private
initiative. The general policy of the GOG in the past tended to reinforce a
reliance on government-controlled cooperatives and to actively discourage
initiatives from non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
3.2      The absence of reliable and up-to-date data to monitor social
programs and to support effectively the activities under the 1RP is of great
concern to policymakers and planners in the country. The latest income and
expenditure survey was conducted over twenty years ago; the GOG has not
published a consumer price index since 1989; data from the 1990 Population
Census is not yet ready for release; and cause-specific national
epidemiological data has not been available for the last eight years.
Recently several initiatives of varying scope and coverage have been initiated
or are being planned, most notably an income and expenditure survey to be
carried out with funding from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
3.3      In an effort to address some of the short-term adverse effects of
the ERP, the GOG launched in 1989 the SIMAP. As an initial step, an Emergency
Program (EP) was set-up under the authority of the Ministry of Culture and
Social Assistance (MCSA), funded through the IMF-sponsored Guyana Support
Group, to provide up to US$2 million of short-term relief in the form of
supplementary income payments to old-age pensioners and public assistance
recipients, pregnant and lactating women, and children under five years. At
the same time, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) initiated preparation
of a pilot operation (US$2.8 million) to support SIMAP through the creation of
an autonomous implementing agency, the development of procedures for sub-
project evaluation, and the financing of about 40 sub-projects for a period of
18 months, in particular in the areas of infrastructure and vocational
training. SIMAP is headed by a six-member Board of Directors appointed by the
MCSA (three members to be selected from different government agencies, and the
other three members from the private sector, NGOs and University of Guyana,
respectively). Board members, representing a variety of organizational
interests, have broad powers, including the approval of sub-projects. In
addition, an executive director has the exclusive authority to submit sub-
projects to the Board for approval, and day-to-day operations are carried out
by an operations manager supervising a staff of about fifteen professionals.
3.4      RAtionale for IDA Involvement.  IDA's country assistance strategy
for Guyana is aimed at supporting the ERP, including its efforts to mitigate
the adverse social impact of the adjustment process. IDA's involvement is
particularly critical at this juncture to arrest the spread of poverty and the
further deterioration of physical facilities, while investing in humpn capital
through targeted interventions aimed at improving the health and nutrition



- 15 -
status of the poor. The proposed IDA project is consistent with the above
strategy. An infusion of resources in social services, coupled with the
strengthening of the Government's ability to formulate sustainable policies
and programs, would improve its ability to implement the difficult adjustment
measures associated with the ERP and would complement IDB's financing of SIHAP
as well as proposed IDA operations supporting the bauxite and sugar sectors.
The proposed project would also seek to develop the capacity of grass roots
organizations, NGOs and local government to address the most urgent health
needs of the population in a quick and efficient manner. IDA's support of
SIMP would be followed by a proposed investment operation in the social
sectors aimed at improving the GOG's capacity to deliver health, nutrition,
and education services over the medium-term. Lessons learned from previous
BSnk Group experience in the Caribbean Region, and from the Emergency Social
Fund in Bolivia (ESF), have been incorporated into the design of the proposed
project. These lessons indicate that: (a) small, less-developed countries in
the Caribbean need extensive technical assistance, as is provided in this
operation, to supplement their very limited administrative and technical
manpower available for project implementation; (b) alleviation of poverty
requires direction and care in targeting investments and services to ensure
that the neediest groups are benefitted; (c) financing of investments must be
coordinated with budgeting of funds to cover operating costs to ensure
sustainability; (d) a simplified procurement process can be successfully
applied for small and widely dispersed sub-projects, provided an effective
system for quality control supplies the necessary checks and balances; and (e)
social fund-type investments are supervision intensive for Bank Group staff,
and mechanisms, such as external procurement audits and technical assistance,
can be built into project design to reduce the supervision burden.
3.5       Prolect Objectives.  The main objective of the proposed project will
be to assist the GOG in cushioning the social costs of the adjustment process
through the establishment of an effective mechanism aimed at addressing the
basic needs of the population in a decentralized manner, such as through NGOs,
community groups, and local government agencies. In particular, the project
will aim to: (a) improve health and nutrition status over the short-term, in
particular of pregnant and lactating women and children under five through the
financing of food supplementation programs, the rehabilitation and equipping
of health care centers and day care centers, and the rehabilitation of the
water supply, sanitation and stormwater drainage structures; and (b) assist
the Government in the formulation of sustainable policies and programs in the
social sectors over the medium-term.
3.6       Project Description.  The proposed project will consist of four
components: (a) institutional development; (b) sub-project implementation; (c)
establishment of a living standards measurement survey (LSMS); and (d)
development of a policy framework in the health sector.  The intitutionl
development component (16 percent of total costs) will complement the IDB's
efforts to assist the GOG in the development of administrative and management
procedures, operating criteria for SIMAP, price data base for sub-projects,
and targeting mechanisms. Financing will be provided for technical assistance
(including support from an international procurement agent), administrative
costs, vehicles and office technology. A dated plan of action to phase-out
SIMAP at the end of the proposed project, and gradually integrate its
activities into existing government agencies has been developed and will be
implemented. SIDAP will be vested with administrative, technical and



- 16 -
financial autonomy and vill be responsible for appraising, approving,
financing and monitoring sub-projects. The sub-2rglkect imlementtion
¢omonent (78.5 percent of total costs) will primarily address the basic
health, nutrition, and water and sanitation needs of the groups most affected
by the country's economic decline, and in particular of pregnant and lactating
women and children under five years of age. Eligibility criteria developed
during project preparation define the nature and scope of sub-projects to be
implemented in this component. Financing will be provided for: (a)
rehabilitation and equipping of primary health care facilities; (b) nutrition
surveillance and education, and food distribution programs targeted at
children under five years and pregnant and lactating women; (c) construction,
rehabilitation and equipping of day-care centers; (d) installation and
rehabilitation of basic water supply facilities and sanitation systems, and
extension and rehabilitation of small drainage systems; and (e) technical
assistance to sponsoring agencies. Based on proposals received over the past
twelve months and on the project list developed for the Consultative Group
Meeting, SIMAP has identified a portfolio of sound sub-projects to be financed
during the first year of implementation of the proposed project. The ISNS
component (2.5 percent of total costs) will entail the development of a
household survey to assist Government in the evaluation and development of
policies and programs, with a particular focus on the social sectors. The
LSMS will be implemented in conjunction with the UNDP-financed income and
expenditure survey and will draw data from a third of its 7,000 household
sample. The LSMS will be undertaken in three separate occasions, the last one
of which is expected to take place in mid-1993. Financing will be provided
for technical assistance, operating expenditures and equipment. The health
sector nolicy develooment cognonent (3 percent of total costs) will include
the financing of national and international technical assistance to define
medium-term policies and strategies for the health and nutrition sectors and,
on this basis design a portfolio of programs and projects for external
financing. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$750,000 was approved by
IDA in April 1991 to finance project preparation activities (including short-
and long-term technical assistance to refine SINAP's administrative and
operational procedures and finalize its operations manual), baseline data
surveys (in particular a morbidity/malnutrition survey and a health facilities
survey), and pilot sub-projects. The financing of pilot sub-projects through
the PPF allowed SIMAP to refine its sub-project cycle mechanisms, improve sub-
project promotion strategies, and establish credibility among NGOs and grass
roots organizations.
3.7       SIMAP will have overall responsibility for the project, except for
the health sector development component to be carried out by the KOH. SIDAP's
responsibilities will include: (a) identification and targeting of the most
vulnerable groups; (b) sub-project promotion; (c) sub-project evaluation; (d)
sub-project approval; (e) contracting with beneficiary agencies; (f)
disbursement of funds and tracking of their execution; (g) establishment of
information systems to monitor and assess the effect of sub-project
implementation on impact indicators; (h) administration and tracking of funds
from financing agencies; and (i) guaranteeing compliance with procurement
procedures agreed with the financing agencies. To implement the proposed
project, the current IDB-funded staff will be increased by four professionals
and three field officers. The GOG will pass on the proceeds of the credit in
grant form under subsidiary arrangements satisfactory to IDA, to be signed by
the GOG and SIMAP. The project will be carried out over a period of four



years. Annual reviews will be carried out to follow up project implementation
and take correctilve actions as needed. The proposed project Is designed with
a view to ensuring sustainability of SIMAP's benefits. To this effect,
medium-term sector policies and strategies vill be developed, and the sub-
project appraisal process will put special emphasis in ensuring the
continuation of sub-project activities once SIMAP financing ends. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$11.7 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$4.2 million (36 percent). A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts sad methods of procurement
and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule S.
A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in the COG are given in Schedules C and D, respectively, A map is
attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 10146-6UA dated April 2, 1992 is
also attached.
3.8       Snvironmental Aspects.  The proposed project does not pose
significant environmental concerns. The issue of safe disposal of haxardous
medical waste in health facilities receiving project financing will be
addressed through inclusion of guidelines in sub-project eligibility and
appraisal criteria.
3.9       Aareed Actions.  Prior to negotiations, the COG submitted to IDA:
(a) SflMP's revised salary scale which was approved by the Ministry of Finance
in September 1991, that will guarantee quality staffing at SIMAP; and (b) a
dated plan of action to phase-out SIKAP and gradually Integrate its activities
into existing government agencies; and STMAP submitted to IDA a list and
profiles of sub-projects suitable for financing during the first year of
implementation. It was agreed durina neaotiations thats (a) SIMP will be
maintained fully staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
project. The Minister of Finance agreed that SIMAP salaries will be reviewed
from time to time to ensure that salaries remain competitive; (b) the proposed
phase-out plan vill be Implemented in accordance with the agreed objectives
and time frame; (c) SIMAP will maintain at all times a reference price data
base satisfactory to IDAI (d) the 60G will issue, not later than December 31,
1993, a nutrition policy statement defining policies and programs designed to
meet the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women and children under
five years over the medium-term, and to start the execution of a specific plan
of action to put into effect such policies and programs according to a
timetable satisfactory to IDA; (e) procedures for IDA's sub-project review
will be followed by SIMAP; and that SIMAP will submit to IDA: (i) monthly
reports on the number and nature of sub-projects approved for financing; (il)
quarterly reports on its activities, including promotion, targeting and impact
evaluation; and (iii) no later than April 30 of each year, an annual report on
the overall execution of the project; (f) a mid-term review of the project
will take place no later than December 31, 1994; (g) the GOG will provide
counterpart funds as assigned in the project financing plan; (h) the aggregate
amount of expenditures on food items will not exceed US$2.58 million
equivalent (or 25 percent of credit amount) over the life of the projectt (i)
SIMAP will contract a procurement agent acceptable to IDA to carry out
procurement activities under the project, including procurement audits of
contracts to be procured under local shopping and direct contracting



- 18 -
procedures5 (j) SIMUP will use standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA
for the procurement of works through LCB; and (k) SIU? will submit to IDA for
prior review: Mi) bidding documents and award recomendations for contracts
of civil works valued at US$100,000 equivalent or above to be procured  tnder
LCB procedures; and (ii) bidding documents and award recomendations for the
first three civil works contracts. Conditione of credit effectiveness will be
thats (a) the revised salary scale, satisfactory to IDA, is implemented; (b)
the contractual arrangement between the Borrower and SIMAP specifying the
mechanisms through which proceeds of the proposed credit will be passed on to
SIM4P has been duly signed and ratified; and (c) the procurement agent,
acceptable to IDA, has been employed.
3.10      Beneflts.  The proposed project would help cushion the negative
effects of adjustment, while at the same time improving the country's capacity
to design, implement, and monitor health, nutrition, sanitation and other
community-initiated programs. It would have direct effects on the nutritional
status of about 150,000 women of child-bearing age, and of 80,000 children
under five, and would provide associated services such as primary health care
and basic sanitation. Results from the LSHS would provide not only a tool for
evaluating the impact of SIUAP's activities, but would also contribute to
further understanding of the extent and depth of poverty and its correlates.
This, coupled with the implementation of the phase-out plan for SIMAP and the
preparation of an investment plan in the health and nutrition sectors, would
help Government in the development of sustainable medium-term policies and
programs in the social sectors.
3.11      RlsUs. The project faces several risks:  (a) that SIMA  may succumb
to political pressure and approve sub-projects that are inconsistent with
agreed selection criteria; (b) that SIBUP's credibility may be eroded as a
result of a prolonged hiatus between its launching and the start of
operations; and (c) that demand for sub-projects may be limited by the lack of
project implementation capacity of NGO and grass roots organizations. These
risks would be reduced by: (a) the careful selection of technical staff, the
development of well-defined operating procedures and project eligibilfty
criteria, attention to institutional development of SIMAP, supported by
frequent supervision, annual reviews and technical assistance; (b) the
definition of a core pipeline of sub-projects from national and local
government agencies, municipalities and international organizations in order
for SIMP to address some of the most obvious and urgent needs; and (c) the
emphasis on promotion activities during the project preparation phase
including the broadening of SrMAP's current promotion strategies beyond NGO.
and grass roots organizations to include national and local government
agencies.
3.12      Recommendtlign. I am satisfied that the proposed credit of SDR 7.5
million (equivalent to US$10.3 million) would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 2, 1992



- 19 -
Schedule A
SIMAP/HEALTH. NUTRITION. A13 WAER AND SANITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs:                               Local      Foreign       Total
-------US$ Million-
A. SIMAP Sub-2roiects
Health & Nutrition                        3.11        1.26        4.37
Day Care Centers                         0.90         0.11        1.01
Water and Sanitation                      1.89        1.71        3.60
Technical Assistance
to Participating SAs                     0,1          o.o6        Q.20
Subtotal                           6.04         3.14        9.18
B. SIMAP Institutional Sunport
Administration                            0.80        0.05        0.85
Equip. Veh. & Maint.                     0.03         0.24        0.27
Technical Assistance                      0J.A        O40.
Subtotal                           1.17         0.70        1.87
C. LSNS & Norbidity SurveX
Salaries                                 0.08         0.00        0.08
Equipment                                0.01         0.02        0.03
Operational Exp.                         0.07         0.00        0.07
Technical Assistance                      0.02        0.1
Subtotal                           0.18         0.12        0.30
D., Health Sector Policy Develogment
Technical Assistance
Subtotal                           0.07         0.28        0.35
Total Project Costs A/             71iL7
g/  Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are not applicable.
Includes US$750,000 PPF.
liuancing Plan:                           USS MLilion                 Earcentage
IDA                               10.30                      88.0
Government                         0.53                       4.5
Beneficiaries                      0.57                       4.9
IDB                               0.302
Total                       11.70



- 20 -                                        k         a
Po Ie  of 2
sam&imLY uumrzou AM VAYU An SamuITTO mmn
(US$ Millie*  qiaet
rocaremmaet t"hod                         Totl
proiect B1o"nt                                  showp.        ter         E.R.F         Coot
LCB                                    al bi
1. Work
1.1  Hbalth  acllttes                             0.3S         0.40                       0.75
(0.35)      (0.36)                     (0.71)
1.2 Day Care Centers                              0.10         0.08                       0.18
(0.08)      (0.05)                     (0.13)
1.3 Water Supply                     1.60         0.20                                    1.80
(1.60)       (0.10)                                  (1*70)
1.4  Sanitation                                   0.30         0.20                       0.50
(0.20)      (0.10)                     (0.30)
1.5 Wastea#ter Drainage              0.70         0.40                                    1.10
(0.70)       (0.30)                                  (1.00)
2. Good"
2.1 Ibdical Equip.
Supplies & Drugs                             1.32                                   1.32
(1.12)                                 (1.12)
2.2 Equipment Furnlture
& Supplies                                   0.30        0.06                       0.38
(0.30)      (0.06)                     (0.36)
2.3 Office Tech. & Veh.                           0.12                                    0.12
(0.12)                                 (0.12)
2.4  Food                                          1.58        1.00                       2.58
(1.45)      (0.90)                     (2.35)
3. Consultancesl
3.1  Support to                                                0.20                       0.20
Sponsorin8 A8.                                          (0.20)                     (0.20)
3.2  TechnLcal Assistance                                      0.92         0.15          1.07
(0.92)                    (0.92)
4. Salaries & Oper. BYP.
4.1  SIMAP A.                                                  0.65         0.1S          0.60
(0.50)                    (0.50)
4.2  Surveys                                                   0.15                       0.15
(0.14)                    (0.14)
S. miacellaeou
5.1  PPP Refinancing                                           0.75                       0.75
(0.75)                    (0.75)
Total Costs                2.30          4.67         4.43        0.30         11.70
(2.30)       (4.02)       (3.98)                   (10.30)
~~'   t       f S thLvI          _ f f_Ge by 3M ct.
Comaatane ee,o should b pocre iseoeea  ihWtl ak  zdln
Cse of oossutmute by World Seob 3otwcrs sod by the World Dash so Ussostiug isemy (WsobtStos, D.C.. Auast 1981).
4g          'fi bm 0d l_"d ebwt
r~~~~~47" " mlft          Wl pk_k .    dUwt  O.W
s I   I s o l e ,   t ~ . o J U t 5 e   3s o 4   s h o p p i n g p e n   a n



Schedule a
- 21 -                                    Pas  2 of 2
Category                               Amount                      Percentage
(5$ Equivalent)
* 1.    Su-projects for Halth   N utrition
(a)  Civl Works                                 690,000          952 of eligible expenditures
tb)   lon-medical Equipmnt                      110,000
Supples & Furniture
Cc)  Nedica  Equipmnt                           330,000
Supplies & Dx%V
(d)  pood                                     2,150,000
2.    Sub-projects for Day-Case Centers
(a)   Civil vorks                               140,000          80S  of eligible expenditures
(b)  Equtpment                                  120,000
(c)  Pood                                       450,000
3.    Sub-projects for Water & Sanitatlon
(a)  Water Supply                             1,600,000          952 of eligible expenditures
Sb)  Basic Sanitation                           310,000
(c)  Wastevater Dranae                          960,000
4.    Technical Assistance to Participating Us*
(a)  Technical Assistance                       190,000          1002 of eligible expenditure.
5.    siAP Inastitutional support
(a)  Salaries, Travel, Tralning,                510,000          100S of eligible expenses
and Operating Expense.
(b)  Equipment, Vehilel  and                    150,000
Maintenance
I-)  Technical Assistance                       420,000          1002 of ellgible expenditure.
for consultants" services,
travel, expenses and oerx
6.    Low & Morbiity survey
(a)   Salaries                                   80,000          100S of eligible expenditures
(b)  Equipment                                   30,000
(c)   Operational Expenditures                   70,000
(d)  Technleal Assistance                       100,000          1002 of eligible expenditures
for consultants' eervices,
travel, expenses and ggle
7.    Preparation of Investment Project
(a)   Technical Assistance                      350,000          1002 of eligible expenditures
for consultants' services,
travel expenses and per
8.     PPm  Refinaning                                 750,000          1002 of eligible expendltures
9.    Unallocated                                      790,000
TOTAL                         10,300,000



- 22 -
Sichedule C
SDIAPizHALTH. XWTRITION. AND MTER AND SANITATION PROJECT
lTITABLE OF ax          PRocEssING gvms
Time taken to prepare:                Ten months
Prepared by:                          SINAP with the assistance of consultants
and IDA
First IDA mlssion:                    December 1990
Appraisal mission departure:          June 1991
Negotiations:                         March 9-13, 1992
Date of Board presentation:           April 28, 1992
Planned dste of effectiveness:        June 1992
List of relevant PCEs and PPARs:      N/A



- 23 -
Schedule D
GUYANA
SIMAP/HEALTH, NYUTRITION, AND WATER AND SANITATION  PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GRWOP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of Decerber 31, 1991
........ .......................... . .................. ..... ......... . ........... ..................
--------USS Miltion.......
Amount
Loan/Cr.    Fiscal                                                               (Less Cancellation)
Nuhber       Year    Borrower                Purpose                            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
----       . ..,,,.,   ........             .......                             ....        ..... .... ........,,, 
12 loans and 12 credits have been fully disbursed:                              76.2     61.0
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans  ao
1098-GUA       81    Guyana         Structural AdJustment                                 8.0
1948-6UA       81    Guyana         Structural Adlustment                       14.0
2168-1-GUA     90    Guyana         Second Structural Adjustment                           3.4
2168-2-GUA     91    Guyana         Second Structural Adjustment                          4.3
2168-3-GUA     91    Gwana          Second Structural Adjustment                          18.0
Subtotal              14.0     33.7
1729-GUA       87    Guyana         Bauxite Industry Tecn. Assist.                        7.0       8.2
2168-GUA       91    Guyana         Second Structural AdJustment                         74.6      14.3
2168-4-GUA    92 b/  Guyana         Second Structural AdJustment                          3.1       3.4
2169-GUA       91    Guyana         Third Technical Assistance                            3.0       2.5
Total (Net of Cancellations)                     76.2    148.7
of which has been repaid                         40.8       1.8
Total Held by Bank and IDA  cJ                   35.4    146.9
-        =u
Amount Sold                              0.8
of which has been repaid                 0.8
Total Undisbursed   d/                                              28.4
,...................... .....................
a/ Approved during or after FY80.
b/  Not yet effective.
c/ Book value (I1RD Current Value $54.6m; IDA Current Value S162.7m --
difference due to fluctuation in SDR/USS exchange rate. Converted
at rate prevailing at December 31, 1991)
d/ Current Value converted at SRD/US$ exchange rate prevailing at December 31, 1991.
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of December 31, 1991
,...... ........... . ... ......... .............. .....
..--.......     --US, Million------
Total
Investment  Fiscal                               Type of                                       Held by      Totat
Number      Year     Borrower                    Business          Equity   Loan     Total       IFC     UndIsbursed
..........  ------. ...... -- -- -               .. ........       ...... .. .... .   -----.  . --- --   --....-------..--.. ........ .... .............



I ,4R D  11683R`1
oi >4 .. { -  tGUYAN A
Montthu R dr  i  \
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T , W> z 1fA                                           AN  RettN
,         47S,sMifpz    <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.  ESEGUl8O            tROeW             TOWNI  
f' ~~~'                 -             s         X    v - te  1    t~~~~~~~~~AHAICA     ,
t      Qe e5e           BOwAoe*@  s     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAlrtAOu POliNT                b Ft HEtr  
\K?AA!AwA.-tO jj;RAN :6,  
D  sesl'edkAree-Y, js N ...X. . ...i..
,, -  _e   , Rholfjuldd5  ,  ~~~~~~~~~          ~      ~~,,        ,     F   o Z
-*-   tTewnoionaifioutdarzs   ;   gHosle          tMA
E5E  h_/ ','  <>- f--r>,,?X0YAt,  
CtofOStPQsture ?o°s~~~~K-   ,          i'-''A'- <'"E-'Ta ''- -R
*   [=   bQUxito           '                       >~~~~~~~O-NV,
fieeste  Ame             3~ -       ^.Ws A'                                                                 ,-             ;
k    oono 20 4                                                                                                 '  n 1iLOi% - ..-..
Secondary" ,*#oad wl;         r*,                LU I
tneMtina .*_         nd_ et¢ .    r-                                                                                   c 
ECONOMICd Ariii -* r-                   }1W
U.-   estAock     StestAt{     
5 trlAtv S li twf OCiFAN    >  re  tSSfR  --  r-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
foesr R1er 'A '2N I                                   _     -      -FR                           ;     



