Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
K.,                .r   .                       Report No.  11573-BUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BULGAitIA
TELECONM4NICATIONS PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restridted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit = lev (plural leva), abbrev. Lv
US$1 = 18.2 Lv. (average 1991), 22.5 Lv. (October 1992), 253 Lv. (Februaly 1993)
European Currency Unit (ECU) = US$130 (October 1992), US$1.174 (February 1993)
ACRONYMS
A/D                  Analog to Digital
BPC                  Bulgarian Post Company
BSP                  Bulgaria Socialist Party
BTC                  Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
CPT                  Committee for Posts and Telecommunications
DEL                  rirect Exchange Line
DON                  Digital Overlay Network
DLU                  Digital Line Units
EBRD                 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC-PHARE             European Commission/Fund for Technical Assistance
EIB                  European Investment Bank
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOB                  Government of Bulgaria
ICB                  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDC                  Interest During Construction
IERR                 Intemal Economic Rate of Return
ISRT                 Institute for Scientific Research in Telecommunications
ITU                  International Telecommunications Union
Jv                   Joint Venture
LWB                  Limited International Bidding
Mbps                 Million Bits per Second
MIS                  Management Information System
MW                   Microwave
NCS                  National Communication System
OSS                  Operational Support System
PABX                 Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PCO                  Public Call Office
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
RSU                  Remote Subscriber Unit
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SID                  Subscriber Trunk Dialling
TA                   Technical Assistance
UDF                  Union of Democratic Forces
BULGARIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
CRONIUMUCATIONS PRODECr
PaoN.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................. I
II.      1     BLC                          OO£                                 I 
11.    THE POST AMDEBO  MU   MMNIAMONfSSC  3=........
A. Institutiona Setting.                                                3
B. TeIeommunicatins Operations.                                         3
C. Postal Oraons                            .5
D. Sectoral 6ssues.6
E. Govenme  Stray for the Post
and Telecommunicsdons Seoor.                                        6
M.  HEPPROJECT .....................9
A. Project Objecves.                                                    9
B. Project Descripton.                                                  9
C. ProjectCosts .12
D. Project Financing .13
E. Prrcuement .14
F. r murment .15
0.   iject                ............................Imo.... 16
H. Environmental Aspects .................                             16
L. Project Montoring and Bank Supervision .............         .... 17
IV.  THE BORROWER: BLGARN lECQMNICA7ONS COMPANY . 17
A. Background ................. 17
B. Separon of BPC ad BTC .................  17
C. Corporate Development of BTC  ...................... . 18
D. Joint Venurm  for Otier Seies .......             .......... 22
V..22
V. DNACLL            =SET .................. ........ 22
A. Inroduction .................                                       22
B. Past Perfomance and Present Condition  .............         .... 23
C. Invesmen and Financing .................  25
D. Fincial Forecasts ................. 26
This report has been prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission to Bulgaria in December 1992.
The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. Raguveer Sharma (Task Manager), Varadarajan Atur
(Piancal Analyst), James Cowie (Telecommunicadons Sector Specialist) and Marcel Scoffier
(Telecommunications Engineer). Mr. Franco Batzela (Division Chief of ECIE) also participated in
the appraisal isslon. The Project is managed by ECIE. Mess. David Lomax and Mohammad
Mustafa were Peer Revlewers. Mr. Mibchad H. Wiehen is the Director of ECI Deartm  where the
Project has been procesed.
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vithout World Bank authonzation.



VI.      ES               I   N    ............. ..................  29
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement ................          .          29
B. Demand/supply Anaysis      ... . ............. .30
C. ProjeBene c Bene......  31
D. Risks........ 32
E. MesursofProjetSuc,ss andSusainabflity .32
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEME NTSREACHED   . .33
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Seor Organization Char
Annex 2    Digital Overlay Network (DON) Description
Annex 3    Project Costs, Procurement and Project Impl  on Schedule
Annex 4    Disbursement Profile, Schedule and Categories
Annex S    Organization Chart of BTC
Annex 6    Technical Assistance Matrix
Annex 7    BTC Operational Perfomance, 1989-92
Annex 8    Intnational Traffic and Settlements Liability
Annex 9    Investments and Financing Plan 1993-97
Annex 10   Tariff Policy
Annex 11   Financial Projections with Notes and Asumptions
Annex 12   Performance Indicators
Annex 13   Traffic Forecasts
Annex 14   Rate of Return Calculation
Annex 15   Resource Mobilization to GOB
Annex 16   List of Items in Project File
M   Ng,: IBRD 24612



BU- G
MUM,ELWC=KtS Pig=
Bulgarian Tlecomunlcatdons CompaOy O )
ohe Republic of Bulgaria
US$30 Milion Equivalet
Seventeen yeas, including a four-year grace period, at the Banks
standard variable Inte   rate. GOB would che a guarane fe at one
tenth of the Ba's Iest rate on the outading balace. BTC would
bear the foreign exchange and interest risk.
'ne proposed Project comprises: (a) impleentIon of a Digl  Oveay
Network for BTC for the period 1993-1997, including digitalization of
the tunk rots and renewalexpansion of the ntwork; O) design and
mpleentatIon  of a computer-based Operadonal Support Systeml
Management Information System for BTC; and (c)-technical assstace
for the Corporate !evopment of BTC, Including establishment of
management functions, i.e. accout, auditing, financa management,
planning, etc.
lhe rapid development of the teecommuiatons sector upported by hie
proposed Project wiL provide the neessary basis for a quicker transition
to a market economy. In addition, modernIng the teleconcalons
network will provide the necesary inasucture for the private secwt
to offer high value-added srvices, thus condWtr g to %he cretion of
employment and wealth. Ihe establ 1im  of the digital ifAtructure
(optical fibre, microwave, sysms) will enable Bulgaa to participate in
severalregionatel  nicationssystems, e.g., CEFOS, KAFOS, etc.
Participin In such regional systems wil generate additonal reves
from  trnsit traffic. Furthermore, imipiln of the proposed
Project will result In significant revenues for the Govenment from
corporate taxes, conriutons to the Natonal Commuication System
(NCS), and tumovtaxes. Finnci projecdons indicate that the totd
resources a      to the Govement though the year 2000 i about
Leva 49.4 bfllion (US$1.2 bilion). Further, the proposed Project could
be a model for rsruct    other secos and companles in Bulgaria.
1Ia~                       Sensvity analysis of project benefts (IERR) shows ta one of the risks
that could affect the poposed Project is the linited project
implema tion capability of the Bulan (ERR drops to about 21%
for a 2-year delay). To addrs this dsk, ImplementatIo of the physica
components of the proposed Project will be mainly through single-point
responsibility contacts (supply ad erect, turnkc, etc.) and BTC wil be
assisted by experienced Project Implementaion Consultants. Ihe
Instional and policy reform would be aisted by consultant and
moniored closely by the Bak  Ihe risk that the sectal and tariff
refrms woud not be carried Is minimal sice the Bulgais hae
paricipated fully in the formulation of the reform program with the



- jj-
assent of the highest levels of Government. The new Government,
wbich came to power in December 1992, has reaffmed its support for
the progm.
Pxject CC (1993-97)
-USD million-  % Foreip
Description                   Local  Foreigp   Total   Exchange
Switching Equipment          39.7    52.4    92.1       57
Transmission Systems          19.9    S4.3   74.2    73
Loca Networks                26.8    16.8    43.6    39
Network Maagement Systems     3.2      3.5     6.7    53
Management Informadon Systemr.  4.1    9.2    13.3    69
Technical Assistance           ui     _U2    _.3 .2
TotalBasecostswa/        967    1A        23       6
Physica! Contingencies        9.7      14.2   23.9    60
Price Contingencies           10.2     12.3   22.5      55
Customs Duties k/ I.                  _        1
Total Project Costs         132.4             A1       S6
DC- Bank Loan s                        6.2      6.2    100
- Other Financing            .      32.2    32.2    100
Total Fiancing Requied               22A  339 8
Ai In January 1993 prices (1 ECU - US$1.174 = Leva 29.70).
b/ At 15.5% of imported equipment.
I/ Interest during construction (IDC) on foreign loans to be financed from
local reorces.



plan:
(US$ million)
LQI    EPign    Toni           %
Proposed Bank Loan      0       30.0       30.0      9
EIBat                   0       75.1       75.1     22
EBRD hI                 0       39.4       39.4      12
BTC                   I.4A    2,c/    12 5I
Total                 INZA       2        DA 18
a/ Out of loan amount of ECU 70 million
h/ Out of loan amounit of ECU 32 million.
Ci including foreign exchange requiremeis for IDC, paid out of internal fumds.
(US$ million)
Amnual              6.1    10.0    8.6    4.2    1.1
Cumulative          6.1    16.1   24.7   28.9   30.0
Economi Rate of Re"tun: 33 %



C. =  Ecn
I. ECONOQMY
1.01                  .  Bulgaria, one of the smaler countries of Europe in terms of area and
population emerged afte iur and a half decades from under the communist nle, in November 1989.
lho fst fee multdpart elecdons wero held In the country in Jute 1990. The new Government, which
was domiatd by the BuDuan Sociaist Pary (BSP), took office In Septamber 1990, but it failed to
mobilize support for its form program and in the midst of a national strike resigned and was teplaced
by a coalition govemet composed pimiy of the BSP and the opposition, the Union of Democratic
Forces (UDP). In late 1992, the UDF governm  has been replaced by a new BSPled govetmaent.
1.02         Reem Ecwmic 2MWgM  Since 19. The combination of the politcal cbanges
and advese extep  shocks during 1990 delayed the implementation of the required reforms measures
nd resulted in economlc performanc- derrating rapidly. Faced with declining convertible currency
eaning, a bunching of amordzation payments and the depletion of foreign exchange reserves, the
Govmnt decared a w olDum on most debt obligations of about US$10 billion, and the country lost
access to foeign commercial bank lending in mid-1990. GDP declined by an estimated 11.8% in 1990,
with indstry, agilture and sevices declining, respectively, by an estimated 16.3%, 6.7% and 6.4%.
Fueled by bo  increses in nomin  wages and a large monetary overhang, inflation acceleaed to an
estimed averag annual rats of 26% and the budgetdeflcit increased on a cash basis from 1.4% of GDP
In 1989 to 8.5% in 1990. The conomy in 1991 contracted even faster. Output declined by about 23%
In real tms and unemployme increased signficantly, from 1.6% at the beginning of the year to 10%
by Decmber, wih anohr 2% of the work force on unpaid leave. Following the liberalization of prices,
monthly inflation, after having sowed downed, picked up slightly in the last faw months of the year.
1.03         Despite the worsenlig econmic situation, successive Governments are implementing a
comprehensive economic tefom progm with the support of: (a) the IMF through a Stand-by
gam_nt (SDR 279 millon) attached to which was an extemal contingency mechanism for crude oil
and natural g  prices, and (b) the World Bank through a Struchual Adjustment Loan (SAL) of US$250
million and a Technical Assistance Loan of US$17 million.
1.04         Reflecting the sasfactory implementtion of the adjustment program, the encouraging
trade trends that becam  evident in late 1991 have continued, with exports in convertble currencies
shownvg u_edpected buoyany. lhis has resulted in a small surplus in the trade account for the first half
of 1992 and has also offet to a limited exmt the contraction in domestic demand, thus limitng the
decline in GDP. Inflation, however, has been higher than expected, ranging between 4-5 percent per
month. To furt  dampen nisaion, wags ceilings have been adjusted only partially, implying a further
decUin i real wes  I 1992.
1.05         Given the emphasis accotded to the development of private sector, the Government has
removed al legal badeis to new private business acdvity. A comprehensive privatization law, covering
both small and large enpres, was enacted in April 1992, which provides for a flexible and multi-track
approach to prdvat on, including its Iniation by the Government, the Privatization Agency,
municipalities, enterpsand inmtors. The reguations and institutions required to implement the law
bave    established and are expected to become operational shortly.
1.06        FollowIng demonapollzadon, the state enterprises have been transformed, under the
Companky Law of July 1991, ino smaller commercial companies with new boards of directors and



-2-
managers to prepare them for privatization. To foster this process, and improve efficiency and
accountability in the state enterprise sector, financial discipline is being strengthened through the removal
of budgetay subsidies, introduction of dght credit and interest rate policies and control over wage bils.
In the gicultural sector, the Government has adopted a comprehensive amendment to the Land Reform
Act, which wil gready reduce obstacles to the reform process and help create a land market. In the
financial secoor, two basic laws that establish an independent Central Bank and create conditions for
universal as well as specialized commercial banks were enacted during the first half of 1992. In addition,
the Government has agreed with the Bank on a medium-term strategy for restructuring the energy sector.
1.07         Notwithstanding the progress made by the Government in establishing the framework for
restoring the country's growth potential, domestic pulicy reform by itself will not be sufficient to support
coinued economic recovery, given the external shocks and the dislocation resulting from the reform
program. IThese have already reduced domestic consumption and imports to levels where funther
substantial cuts could jeopardize the sustainabiity of the program. This, together with the prevaiing
resource constraints, clearly augments the need for a negotiated resolution of the present debt overhang
and for channelling, over the medium-term, official financi assistance toward priority investments to
sustuin the restructuring of the economy.
1.08         One such priority area for investments is the telecommunications sector. The availability
of efficient information services, particularly telecommunications, is critical in the transition towards a
arket economy, since many of the targeted reforms, e.g. industrial/enterprise performance, restructuring
of the financial sector, will need a reliable and wide range of telecommunications services. Furthermore,
the effectiveness of telecommunications services affects international economic competitiveness.
Foruatly, in telecommunications it is possible to 'leap frog' or jump over stages in the tecknological
choices for developing the infrastructure. For example, modern digital switching and trnsmission
systems can be introduced as a direct replacement for electromechanical technology currently in use.
Recognizing the importance of developing the telecommunications infrastructure, as well as the
oppotunity to reap the concomitant benefits of developing modern information services, the Government
of Bulgaria (GOB) has given priority to the modernization and reform of the telecommunications sector.
However, GOB is also aware that the reform of the sector is not just a matter of irstalling new
technology and that it is necessary to adopt and implement policies and actions to: create a commercial
evironment wahich responds to the needs of the users; generate profits to achieve sustinable fiancing
of new investments; ensure that the economic benefits of telecommunications are realized and efficiently
distributed; and, reform the postal activities concurently with the reform of telecommunications services.
1.09         After the political changes in 1990, GOB laid the foundation for the reform of the
telecommunications sector. The first steps were to prepare plans for a digital overlay network to meet
the needs of business. Then a decree of the Council of Ministrs in June 1991 authorized:
(a)    Privatization and foreign investment at least outside of the Public Switched Telephone
Network (fixed telephone network);
(b)    Separation of company supervision from operations by forming the Bulgarian Posts and
Telecommunications Company; and
(c)    Establishment of a Committee for Posts, Telecommunications and Informatics,
subsequently named Committee for Posts and Telecommunications, to perform policy
making and regulatory functions.
In order tO assist with the further development and implementation of the sector reform program,
including the associated infrastructure development and institutional building, the European Investment
Bank (IB), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Commission



-3 -
PHARE Fund (EC-PHARE), and the Bank have established a program of technical arsistance, policy
advice and investment financing which is described in the following chapters.
II. THE POST AND TELECOMMUNI-CATIONS SECTORS
A. InMipWSetinl
2.01         The post and telecommunt     sector currently comprises three principal public
organizations-the Committee for Posts and Telecommunications (CPT), the Bulgariar. Tost Company
(BPC) and Bulgarian Telecommunications Company (BTC). A chart showing thv sector's organization
is provided as Annex 1. Before 1991, Crr was also the national operator. In 1991, an interim
company, Bulgarian Posts and Telecommunications Company was formed out of the relevant parts of
CPT to take operational responsibility for postal and telecommunications services. At the end of 1992,
this interim company was split into BPC and BTC. The President of CPT is appointed by the Council
of Ministers and has powers similar to those of a Minister. CPT is responsible for developing and
implementng posts and telecommunications policy. The President of CPT, who reports to the Council
of Ministers, can issue regulatory directives in his domain. CPT also holds the delegated responsibility
for the shareholder functions of BPC and BTC. BPC's services include the collection, sorting and
delivery of domestic and international mail, including both letters and parcels by air and sea, as well as
press distribution, issue and sale of stamps, also for spezialized philately magazines, and counter services.
BTC's services include domestic and international telephony, including fixed telephone network and
leased hues, telex, telegrapay, radio and television transmission.
B. Telecomrnunications Operations
FAisting facilities
2.02         The total local switching capacity of the public telephone exchanges (excluding Private
Automatic Branch Exchange, PABX) amounts to 2.4 million lines, 99% of which are automatic. The
tot connected lines amounts to 2.1 million. The resulting exchange fill ratio of 1-87 is on the high side
and demonstes CPT's willipgness to satisfy the pending demand of new connections. The network is
dominated by step-by-step Strowger exchanges which account for 85% of the local exchange capacity.
This system, engineered about 60 years ago, is still manufactured in Bulgaria; it has inadequate functional
and technical features, and poor traffic handling capability which is detrimental for large business users.
The remaining 15% is made up of a crossbar system developed in Bulgaria for small rural exchanges of
up to 400 lines (14%) and of a quasi electronic (analog) system also developed locally (on the basis of
the Siemens ESK).
2.03         The long distance service is provided through two types of networks: (a) regional 2-wire
networks (intra-districts) based on the obsolete step-by-step A29 system; and (b) a national 4-wire
network based on seven semi-electronic exchange (analog ESK IOOOE) vintage 1974. The regional and
the national networks are not directly interconnected. Only large and medium size exchanges are linked
to boti retworks. In addition to the technical limitations imposed by the obsolete and worn-out systems
still in use across the country and the above restrictions to full Subscriber Trunk Dialling (STD)
accessibility, operational problems have been exacerbated by the fact that past programs had given
priority to a sustained growth (usually 10%) in subscriber lines without providing the necessary traffic
handling capacity to the networks, particularly the long-distance networks. As a consequence, the ratio
of tunks per 100 Direct Exchange Lines (DEL) is a very low 21.4 in Bulgaria compared to the 40 trunks
which would be expected by world standards.



-4-
2.04         International links are automated rougb a modern digital electronic exchange installed
in 1988. Lins are cierated to 26 countries In Europe, tormer Soviet Union, North Africa and the Near
East. Capacity is highest to Germany (159 circuits), Turkey (112), Greece (105) and former Soviet
Union (94) but the traffic is highest to Turkey (1.072 M minutes/month-over 6 times incoming), Greece
(626 k minutes), Germany (605 k minutes) and former Soviet Union (552 k minutes).
2.05         With few exceptions (five optical fibre links and one digital microwave short distance
link) most of the transmission Is on analog multiplex systems using symmetrical ' .ld coaxial cables and
microwave links. Also the eqdpment is mostly worn out and obsolete (radio valve systems are still in
use). Itaional traffic Is carried on the INTERSPUTNIK satellite system and on terrestrial routes to
neighboring countries. The outside plant is conventional, with ducts, pressurized cables and distribution
cabinets in major cities and urban areas. Elsewhere cables are either directly buried or overhead, and
open wire lines are still largely in use for local subscriber lines in small cities and villages and medium
distance conmections between rural communites.
Access to Servic
2.06         With a population of 9.0 million and 2.6 million telephones, Bulgaria has the highest
telephone density of all East European countries with nearly 29 telephones per 100 population in 1990.
Ihis is conparable with Spain and Ireland, and about twice the East European and Russian Federation
averages. In Europe as a whole, it ranks 25th among 35 countries. Residential lines are the majority;
only 36% are for business, industry and government administration. Seventy-five percent of the lines
are in urban areas (16.4% in Sofia), but service is also provided in virtually all villages, including
1230 rual communities with limited access through 4000 Public Call Offices (PCO) in Post Offices. In
addition there are about 18,500 public coin boxes, limited to local traffic. Less than 0.5% of the total
popuation is without access to service. Average growth in lines has been 7% over the 1986-1990 period.
There are 612,000 applications on the official waiting list with an unknown additional number who may
not have registered because of unavailability of service. Only 75% of the subscribers, those connected
to local exchanges with automatic access to the ESK trunk transit centers, have a full long-distance
automatic service. For the others, STD is limited to their own region and calls to other regions require
operator assistance with operator diling (semi automatic services) from the designated interurban and
international centers. International subscriber dWing is not available because of limitations of the pulse
metaring system and the scarciq of international circuits.
Qualk of SviI
2.07         There is no coherent set of quality of service measurement across the networks;
consequently, information regarding the percentage of successfil call attempts may vary. Officially,
30-35% successibl call attempts are accepted, which is already very low compared to a 60-70% by world
stndards. However, some samples have shown successful call attempts rate drop to a low of 27% in
Sofia, 15% on STD, and 9% on international. On average 50-60% of the unsuccessful call attempts are
due to faults caused by the obsolete equipment or congestion because of lack of traffic handling capacity
of the switching and the transmission. In the local networks, on average there are 0.40 technical faults
actully cleared per DEL per year for 2.7 recorded complaints. The number of faults cleared would be
acceptable, for an old network, but the large discrepancy between the complaints from the subscribers
and the faults actually identified underline-. the unreliability of the equipment and its poor maintenance.
The average delay on completion of manual long distance outgoing calls is 18 minutes for domestic calls
and two minutes for International calls. There statistics confirm that substantial improvements are needed
to reach world standards.



2.08         With respect to services other than those of basic telephony, there are 7,772 connected
telex Unes to subscribers &dd 1331 gentex connections for the handling of telegraph traffic. lhe service
is provided by 27 domesdc step-by-step exchanges and one modern digital gateway for international
traffic. The telex network has a total equipped capacity of about 10,000 subscriber lines, 2900 long
dice and 600 international circuits. Despite the operation of one modern digital gateway, consisting
of 60 to 70% of the switching at the domestic level, transmission equipment and teleprinters are
antiquated and wor-out. Facsimile service Is currently available on the fixed telephone network, but the
quality is uns itisfactory due to the poor transmission quality of the existing installations. As regards Data
Communications, in 1989, a public X.25 packet switched network with 300 subscriber ports, but with
only 120 users, was commissioned; the network is linked to the German packet-switched network and
through it to the other networks world-wide. Mobile telephony operating in the Frequency Division
Multiplexing mode at 300 MHz is available in the Sofia area for 400 potential users only.
C. PoaLQperations
'Te Post Office Network
2.09         At the end of 1991, there was a total of 140 area offices and 3140 sub-offices. On
average, each Post Office serves a population of 3000 and an area of 35 square kilometers. In addition,
there are about 1000 post agencies which offer a limited number of postal services. BPC also maintains
a feet of over 300 cars and trucks, which is made up almost exclusively of Easterm European models
(Wadas, Ploskvichs, etc.). The fleet is old and expensive to operate and maintain. In addition, as certain
spare pars are no longer manufactured, BPC has been experiencing logistical difficulties. Infrastructure
facilities like building, transport, etc., are shared between postal and telecommunication services at each
Post Office. Alsc, many BPC employees perform a mixture of postal and telecommunication tasks. The
network of post offices throughout Bulgaria is one of the key strengths of postal operations. Press
(newspaer and periodicals) distribution, which is the largest handled service followed by letters nid
pcels, also contributes substanially to the operating losses of postal operations. The postal operations
are subsidized by the telecommunications operations. As a result, and due also to the lack of commercial
orientation, attention is not given to the need for improving cost effectiveness of services and to expand
services to include courier, financial and other related servicos.
2.10         In contrast to the extensive analysis of the telecommunications sector and its prospects
for investment, very little consideration has been given to the future of the postal service. However the
concern for the postal business is now increasing for the f.ollowing reasons:
(a)    political opposition to dividing Posts and Telecommunications without
considering options of the future of the postal business;
(b)   the view  that the systematic approach taken to  improve the
telecommunications business could equa!ly be applied in the postl
subsector and would help with morale, given that telecommunications has
received much more attention; and
(c)   the realization that the postal sector has prospects for improved efficiency
and new lines of business which are needed by business customers and
which would reduce the need for subsidies to sustain the service.



-6-
D. Sectoral Imes
2.11         The iniial set of actions taken by GOB in the sector following the political changes in
1990 (pare 1.09) were largely driven by demnonopolization as part of the strategy to transform the
economy to a market-based one. The Government was faced in 1991 with the following sector specific
issues:
(a)   Inadeqate lnftuture. Although the penetration of telephones in Bulgaria is one of
the highest in Eastem Europe, with more than 29 telephones per 100 population, the
telecommunications network is based upon archaic, step-by-step tchnology, and
antiquated equipment which is inflexible and largely worn out. The main drawbacks are
that: (J) basic service is unreliable and of poor quality; (ii) the capacity of the long
distance network is very limited and is not readily accessed by local customers; and (iii)
iternational subscriber dialling is not available;
(b)   Policy MaKMn& and Regulatory Function. CPI, which will perform both the policy-
making and regulatory functions, has neither the staffing nor a process and reporting
framework to carry out its functions;
(c)    Tariffs and Tariff Setting. Existing policies of low tariffs and heavy taxation of
teleccimunations services, coupled with the need to subsidize postal activities have
suppressed sector income available for network expansion and modernizaion. Low
tariffs have also contributed to accumulation of about US$17 million deficit as of end
1992 in balance of payments with foreign telecommunications administrations. There is
no tariff policy for teleconmunications, nor a mechanism for setting one, although the
CPT is responsible for both establishing the tariff policy (as policy maker) and
administering it (as regulator);
(d)    QMM Deveilpment and Perfoanc. BTC as th operator in the sector, is still new
and the managerial and staff responsibilities are not clearly defined. There are no
modern systems and necessary personnel tor planning, project implementation, personnel
management, financial management and accounting, etc.; and
(e)    Privahzaion- Foreign Investment and Competitin. There are no effective policies and
mechanisms to bring in private investment into the sector, especially foreign private
investment, and introduce competition into the sector.
2.12         In order to address these issues, CPT received technical and policy advice from the Bank
and financial assistance from EC-PHARE to recruit consultants to prepare a strategy for the develop-nent
of Bulgaria's posts and telecommunications sector. The consultaots studies, the terms of reference for
which were reviewed by the Bank and supported by EIB and EBRD, covered the definition of a priority
investment program for the sector as well as policy and institutional reforms. All of these studies have
been completed and the strategy tat has emerged has been adopted by GOB. Such strategy, which will
be support  by the Bank, is summaized below.
E. Government StrateOX for the Post and Telecommunications Sector
2.13         _nn u irhI SD _me. To eliminate infrastructural constraints, a long-term least-
cost investment program to develop the fixed telephone network will be implemented over the 1993-2006
period. Such investment program developed with the assistance of consultants flnarced by EC-PHARE
Wi ompise:



-7-
(a)    A group of short-term projects (1993-94) which wIll give improved service to a few
thousand business subscribers within a few months, and will generate revenue from new
international transit traffic;
(b)    A medium-term project (1993-97), which wil provide high quality service directly for
20 percent of business subscribers and will provide better service for all other users. As
an example of the latter, this project will make direct long-distance and international
dialing available to virtually all subscribers; and
(c)    A long-term program to modernize the entire network by replacing all analog equipment
with digital, modernizing the local access network, and introducing new services and
other improvements, as needed to satisfy demand and improve services and operational
efficiency.
In addition, the Government will acdvely seek and favor private initiatives for the development of
supplemental and new services such as for mobile commnications, data communications and provision
of value added services as needed for the country's economic and socW development.
2.14         Policy Maling and Regulation. CPT will take actions to:
(a)    delineat the role and functions of each of its activities, particularly for regulation;
(b)    develop a regulatory agenda including, but not limited to, financial control, service
quality monitoring, licensing the operators, etc.;
(c)    develop proposals to finance the costs of CPI's functioning (e.g. from GOB budget
and/or fee on regulated companies);
(d)    develop and implement a staffing program for CPT that will enable CPI to carry out its
functions;
(e)   issue an operator license to BTC; and
(t)   separate ownership from policy-making and regulation roles.
2.15         Tariff E.QIy.  CPT with the help of consultants will develop and implement a
comprehensive tariff policy for the telecommunications sector that will:
(a)    encourage economic efficiency through appropriate price-signals about the utilization and
expansion of the network;
(b)    be easy to apply and regulate;
(c)    be sufficienty flexible to accommodate the high inflationary environment;
(d)   result in charges which are predictable and easily understood by users;
(e)    be equitable, in that similar customers imposing similar costs on the system are charged
broadly similar prices; and



-8-
(1)   allow the operators, including BTC to ear a return sufficient to service its debt,
remunerate capital and enable it to develop and expand the network and to improve the
quality of service provided.
The tariff policy will also Include interconnection charges to be levied by BTC for mobile services and
usage charges for value-added services.
2.16         Cg re  Development and Perfonancm  . In order to inculcate commercial orientation
and implement effective corporate development programs:
(a)    Both BTC and BPC will have separate Boards of Directors and management;
(b)   BTC which has been incorporated on January 1, 1993, will develop (with the help of
consultants) and implement a comprehensive corporate development program;
(c)    CPT will institute a study for the modernization and institution building program for
BPC; and
(d)    BTC will not subsidize BPC after 1993; the subsidy for 1993 will be limited to US$15.5
million equivalent or 25% of BTC revenues, whichever is lower.
2.17         Privatization and Foreinn Investment. In accordance with the existing policies of GOB,
It is the intention of GOB that telecommunications be in the long-term, a largely privately-owned and
operated sector. Privatization, however, cannot be a short-term objective because the shallowness of the
domestic capital markets wil restrict the interest in BTC shares to foreign investors only, who are likely
to be discouraged by the present physical state of the network, and by the inadequate tariff policies.
Furthermore, equity financing will place additional burdens on the utility's tariffs, which already need
huge increases just to bring them up to pre-1989 levels. Therefore, the Govermnent does not expect to
be able to attract the private sector to telecommunications infrastructure before 4-5 years. During this
period, the network will be modernized, tariff policy will be reformed, BTC will be strengthened
financially and organizationally, transparency wil: be introduced through operator licensing and
regulation, and a track record for sector and company performance will be established. At the end of
five years, i.e. by 1997, GOB will review the situation and possibly attempt the privatization of the fixed
telephone network. In the meantime, GOB will:
-     Actively seek private sector involvement in providing mobile communications and value-
added services, either by themselves or in joint ventures with BTC; and
-     allow the full privatization of ancillary activities such as equipment manufacturing.
2.18         Law            . A draft Telemmunications Law, which will provide the legal basis
for the refrm of the sector, has been prepared and is expected to be approved by the Parliament during
1993. The drft Law includes, for example, the process of issuance of licenses to BTC and other
operators in the sector. The passage of this Act has been delayed by recent political ntumoil and it may
now be considered not earlier than the second quarter of 1993. CPT has the intention to publish a Sector
Policy which will clarify the opportunities and obligations for existing and potential new players in the
sector.
An==seo of Governtnents SuX
2.19         The Government's strategy is satisfactory, as is the sequencing of the various phases of
sector development many of which will be implemented in parallel. The legal framework being put in



-9 -
place for the sector, i.e. the Telecommunications Law, will enable private sector involvement in all areas
of telecommunications including in the fixed telephone network. 'he Bank would be actively pursuing
the passage of the Law and establishment and publication of the Sector Policy, even though neither is
critical to the success of the proposed Project.
2.20         The Bulgarian authorities have made progress in implementing the strategy. The
infrastructure needs of the fixed telephone network have been identified and loans from EIB and EBRD
have been finalized. The post and telecommunications activities have been separated and the requisite
programs for the corporate development of BTC are being designed. Mobile communications (both
cellular telephony and paging) and data communications have been opened up to participation by the
private sector. Substantial interest is being shown by the lnternational telecommunications operators to
provide these non-fixed telephone network services. However, progress is lacking in the area of
strengthening CPT's policy-making and regulatory functions. There is an urgent need to focus attention
on CPT's development, including appointment of qualified staff to CPT. Technical assistance for
strengthening the policy-making and regulatory functions has been agreed with CPT which would be
financed from the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan ULn. 3384-BU) and from EC-PHARE. Details of
the work program, including TORs, are maintained in the Project File (item 7). The Government agreed
to take all necessary measures to establish, no later than December 31, 1993, in consultation with the
Bank a functional policy and regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector acceptable to
the Bank.
Ml. THE PROJECT7
.A. Project Objecdve
3.01         The objective of the proposed Project is to support the rapid development of the
telecommunications sector along the lines of a strategy adopted by GOB, which calls for policy and
institutional reforms and for implementing a medium-term investment program which reflects economic
priorities.
B. Project DecrDto
3.02         The proposed Project comprises:
(a)   implementation of a Digital Overlay Network of BTC for the period 1993-1997,
including digitalization of the trunk routes and renewal/expansion of the network;
(b)   design and implementation of a computer-based Operational Support System/Management
Information System (OSS/MIS) for BTC; and
(c)   technical assistance for the Corporate Development of BTC, including establishment of
management functions, i.e. accounting, auditing, financial management, planning, etc.
The Digital Overlay Network (DON) and the OSS/MIS components are briefly described below. The
technical assistance to be provided is discussed under the Beneficiaries chapter. Detailed description
about the DON is provided in Annex 2.



10-
Digital Ovgly  etor
3.03         The main components of the DON are:
(a)    Three digital main trunk transit exchanges (two in Sofia and one in Plovdiv) and 25
digital combined main trunklcocal exchanges in other major cities, the 28 digital transit
centers will have together an installed capacity totalling up to 70,000 digital trunks;
(b)    Three digital local exchanges (two in Sofia and one in Plovdiv) with 20 remote subscriber
units (RSU) which, with the local capacity of the 25 trunk transit or combined
transit/local exchanges, makes a total additional installed capacity of up to 123,500 line
units of digital switching equipment, mainly planned for business lines with high traffic
average per line;
(c)    Optical fiher cables for the Sofia metropolitanjunction network and subscriber local cable
networks for 60,000 new subscribers in locations where needed, and to enable
redistribution of existing local loops and connection of distant new users;
(d)    An international transit exchange in Sofia with 3000 trunks;
(e)    An INTELSAT Standard-A satellite earth station near Sofia, linked by microwave to the
new international transit exchange (see (g) below);
(f)    1,700 km of buried long distance optical fibre cables and associated multiplex for high
tansmission capacities for national, regional and international routes;
,g)    1,100 kms of digital microwave trunking links including: (a) very high capacity (2+ 1)
TV and broadband telecommunications transmission links between: (i) Sofia and the
satellite earth station (3 hops) and (ii) Sofia and Veliko Tarnovo via Plovdiv and Stara
Zagora (12 hops) interconnecting on a direct and back-up basis the four main tertiary
trsit centers; and (b) 7 high capacity (I + 1) spur routes linking regional secondary to
national trunk transit centers for broadband telecommunications transmission between:
(i) Sofia and Vidin, Pernik and Kyustendil; (ii) Plovdiv - Smolian, and Haskova -
Kardzali; and (iii) one provincial loop route linking Tarnovo to Ruse and Silistra, and
Varna to Dobrich and Salistra.
(lx)    Transmission equipment, including optical regenerators, digital multiplex equipment,
Analog/Digital multiplex converter (ADM) equipment for connecting the DON to the
existing analog network in cities without new digital transit switches, in particular at 5
tertiary and 22 secondary exchange locations, 14 of which are on the optical fibre cable
routes and 8 are linked by microwave, and at about large primary exchange locations on
the microwave and optical fibre cable routes;
(i)    Digital Line Units (DLUs) for connecting business subscribers in large cities to a distant
local switch; and
0)    Network management and operation and maintenance systems for: (i) Transmission
management centers for optical fibre cable and microwave systems; (ii) Operation and
mainnace and traffic Measument Centers, in Sofia; and (iii) overall operational
failities for the new DON instlations and for efficient interworking with existing
networks.



- 11 -
3.04         Up to 123,500 addidonal line units directly connected to the DON will carry most of the
heavy business long distance and all international traffic through the DON with a high quality service;
consequently, it will de-load the existing analog long distance and district networks, increaing the STD
capability available to other users. Furthermore, the DON will be interconnected to the analog networks
to ensure full connectivity between all Bulgarian subscribers and also to optimize the use of the available
long distance and international facilities, either through direct dialling for the digital subsector of the
DON, or with operator assistance for current analog subscribers in all districts where digital transmission
and trunking facilities are provided under the project.
3.05         EIB will finance the digital exchanges [items (a), (b) and (d)l and EBRD will finance all
transmission equipment [items (c), (e), (t), (h), (i) and Oj] while the proposed Bank Loan will finance
the microwave links (item (g) in paragraph 3.03) as self-standing new facilities between the concerned
tertiary, secondary and TV transmission centers of BTC backbone transmission network. This component
will include about 1,100 kn of microwave routes equipped with 140 Mbp/s basic carrier line capacities
enabling future conversion to 155 mbp/s higher capacities of the synchronous digital hieuarchy, including
terminal ADM equipment. The microwave links will establish additional digital overlay and needed back-
up capacities at the higher hierarchy levels of existing and future systems in the country, and provide
interworking capacities at and between the main secondary and tertary exchanges of the new digital and
exisdng analog trunk networks. As such, these high capacit" microwave links would provide
telecommunications and TV transmission channels between the five main international (Sofia) and tertiary
transit centers of the core digiNl long distance system and additional secondary trunk (22) and large
primary (30) exchanges of the national system. Access to the DON will thus be provided to new digital
and existing analog subscribers at all locations. Modern high quality digital network for long-distance
and international calls will thus be available by mid 1997 to about 70% of all subscribers in the country,
including 95% of the high traffic users. Data communications services could be made available to all
places where demand exists or is likely to exist in the foreseeable future.
Operations Support System/Management Information System
3.06         The Implementation of the DON wi1l force BTC to change its way of managing the fixed
telephone netvork business in many ways: (a) concentration has to shift from providing services on a
social basis (i.e. to population at large) to a commercial basis i.e. to paying and high volume use
subscribers (businesses); (b) the digitalization of the network will enable introduction of many new
services related to fixed telephone network activities e.g. call waiting, call forwarding, etc. To cater to
such new ways of managing the fixed telephone network, BTC needs to improve its operations support
system, comprising billing, accounting, payroll, quality of service measurement, etc., as well as establish
an appropriate MIS which will comprise subsystems for financl management, personnel management,
project management, corporate planning, etc. While the digitalization of the fixed telephone network
forces BTC to implement new systems to help operate and manage, digitalization also facilitates the
implementation of these systems, as much of the operational information is already available in digital
form. Therefore, OSS/MIS implies implementation of hardwaretsoftware systems that will capture the
available information, process it, and disseminate it to those concerned. In view of the significant synergy
that exists between the two systems, their design and implementation will be carried out together. For
ease of reference, the OSS/MIS component will be referred to as MIS in the report.
3.07         During 1992, the Bulgarian authorities have studied the information flow requirements
for the company's operations and management, as well as for meeting the requirements of external
agencies such as the government, regulating agency and international financial institutions to recommend
a strategy for establishing an MIS in BTC. The chosen technical design is to base major applications on
mid-ange (telecommunications) Industy standard computers at BTC's head office and the regions; use
PC4based networks for smaller applications; and use PCs (with networking capability) for stand alone



-12
applications. The choice of hardware will take into acoun wide area network and local area network
standards and enable the existence of specially developed (bespoke) and off-the-sbelf (packaged) software.
3.08          'Me detailed design of the MMS archecture, finalization of technical specification, and
prparaton of bidding documents will be carried out during 1993. For thi purpose, BTC will receive
conltancy assistance for an Architect/Engineer for MIS within the MIS component fanced by the Bank
which wil include design and implementation oversight and support Dudng the design phase, which
will allow for the setting down of organional changes In BTC, eseti  consideration will be given
to how the existng hardware and software can be utilized in the fAture to save development costs. Pilot
testng of the proposed semi-decentralized approach (ara 3.07) wUl be done also during the design phase.
3.09          Allowing procurement and delivery of hardware and system(s) software, during the first
three quaters of 1994, key applications will be developed and implemented over the next four years.
Softwae development and implementation will be done in a modular fashion, in that essenial application
modules for running the business, i.e., accountag, billing payroll, quality of service measureme,
financidal management and corporate planning, will be given priority. To have a complete MIS wil
rewire time and funding additional to that provided under the proposed Project.
C. Projectoc
3.10          The total cost of the proposed Project is esmated at Lwa 11 billion (JS$301 million
equivaent) including physical and price contingencies of about US$46 million, and taxes and duties of
about US$16 million, but excluding interest during constuction (IDC) of about US$38 million. Project
cost estimates are detailed in Annex 3 and summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Proiect Cost Summan. 19932  7
-L. llooU  --                  ------USD i±lWon------  S Foreian
D"czLpt1o                Local Foresi   Total           Loal forein    otal  Exchage
8mttlons EWLVG=t           1004    1326   2330            39.7   52.4   92.1       57
Tzazsmtsian System         503    1373   1677             19.9   54.3   74.2       73
Local Ntworks              677    425   1103              26.8   16.6   43.6       39
Network Manasgamt System    80      a9    169              3.2    3.5    6.7       53
Management nfotm. system   104    234    338               4.1    9.2   13.3       69
Technical Assistance        78    157    234               3.1    6.2    9.3       67
Total Be" costs aJ        2446   3604    6050             96.7  142.4  239.1       60
Physical Contin6gncies     245    360    605               9.7   14.2   23.9       60
Price Contlgencies        1764   2206   3970             10.2   12.3   22.5       S5
Customs Dutis it/          401             401            15.8           15.8       0
Total Ptoject Costs       4856    6170   11026           132.4  169.0  301.4       56
IDC - Ebnk Loan I/                 241    241                     6.2    6.2    100
- ather tf                     Am     _nu m                   3.J2    3J       in
Total lnanoing Rbquired   4858    Z5   .12321             m2 I   ALA.  339.       _
/ In Jenuary 1993 pnic.s (1 ECU - U1. 174 - Lva 29.70).
k/ At 15.5: of loortd parts.
S/ Interest during coortruction (CDC) an foreign loans to be fnanced fren local resources.
3.11          Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are estmated at US$169 million (56% of toal
project cst). The costs of all componen  other than the microwave system and the MIS, to be fianced
by the  a, ar based on evaluated bids. Ihe esti         for the Bank fnaced microwave componaet
Is ba    oan simima equipmet bei  nrocured by BTC (to Install a link to the Greek border) under export
crdt arrangements. The esimat  for the MIS cowmponent are based on consultants' estma    which



-13-
in turn were based on quotatlons from major hardware/software vendors to the telecommunications
industry. Physical contingencies of 10% of the base costs have been assumed for the relevant components
of the Project. These contigencies are judged to be adequate as most of the physical components would
be in exisig sites where the conditons are well imown. Price contingencies which are applied only to
the EIB- and the Bank-financed componens, are based on the following expected annual inflation rates
(GDP deflators): domestic, 39.4% for 1993, 20% for 1994, 10% for 1995 and 6% thereafter; and
foreign, 3.9% in 1993, 3.9% in 1994, and 3.8% thereafter. Price contingencies have not been applied
on EBRD-flmced components as the cost esate used are based on fixed-price bids for evaluated bids.
IDC amounts to Leva 1,475 million (US$38 million) bringing the total financing requirement to about
Leva 12.5 billion (US$340 million).
D. prjoj Ei_d
3.12         The total foreign exchange requirements are US$207.4 million equivalent including IDC
of about US$38 million equivalent. The foreign costs will be financed under parallel cofinancing
arrangements by EIB, EBRD and the Bank. EIB will finance switching equipment (US$75.1 million
equivalent), EBRD will finance transmission equipment (US$39.4 million equivalent) and the Bank will
finance microwave links and MIS (US$30 million equivalent). The financing plan for the project is
summarized in Table 3.2. BTC would finance 100% of local costs, 100% of IDC, as well as US$24.5
million equivalent in foreign exchange for microwave link to Greece and replacement lines from internal
funds. The financial projections indicate that BTC will be able to generate these funds.
Table 3.2: Pro*ect Ekinancn Plan
(U.s$ million)
LQ       Fore!in    Total       %
Proposed Bank Loan      0        30.0       30.0       9
EIBj/                   0        75.1      75.1       22
EBRD h/                 0        39.4       39.4      12
BTC                   1324       62.9c/   15 7
Total                    M47A
al Out of loan amount of ECU 70 million.
hl Out of loan amount of ECU 32 million.
gl Including foreign exchange requirements for IDC, paid out of internal funds.
Propsd Ban Loa=
3.13         The proposed Bank Loan amounting to US$30 million will be made to BTC, with GOB's
guarantee. The proposed Bank Loan will carry the Bank's standard variable intest rate (presently
7.43%) and will be for a seventeen (17) year period including a four year grace period. BTC will bear
the interest rate and exchange rate risk, and pay to GOB a guaratee fee equal to one-tenth of the Bank's
interest rate (0.743% at presen interest rates), on the ouding balance. At current Bank interest rates,
the total annual intest cost to BTC would be about 8.2%. Since the proposed Bank Loan Is Intended
to complete the financi  plan for the Projet, the aonk Loan would not be made effective until the
oans of EIB and EURD have become effectve.



- 14-
E. Procurement
3.14         Procurement arrangements for the project are based on parallel cofinancing. All
procurement packages for supply and installation of material and equipment to be financed by EIB and
EBRD, have been prepared for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the respective
banks' procurement guidelines. In fact, EIB and EBRD have allowed BTC to use the World Bank's
Sample Bidding Documents. Tendering for the various packages of installations financed by EIB and
EBRD is well advanced and the ongoing evaluation process of the proposals should enable BTC to select
the suppliers and award the bidders for 6 of the 7 main lots, with EIB and EBRD's agreement, by
April 1993. Draft bidding documents for the microwave component (the 7th main lot) were submitted
to the Bank and relevant comments were made to BTC in December 1992. BTC, with the assistance of
their consultants are preparing revised final bidding documents for this iter i, on account of the revised
quantities and composition under this item of the DON which were agreed upon during appraisal. The
revised bidding documents will be submitted to the Bank for further review in April 1993. Bidding for
microwave links is expected to take place in May 1993. As regards MIS, the request for proposals for
recruiting the Architect/Engineer for MIS is under preparation and will be ready by end-March 1993.
Bidding documents for hardwarelsoftware will be ready by end of 1993.
3.15         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and a detailed schedu'e is
included in Annex 3. Procurement of all Bank financed items would take place in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Goods (May 1992), and for consulns (August 1981), as applicable. Microwave links
procurement would be under ICB on a turnkey basis in two packages. Operations and maintenance
support equipment would be procured under ICB (n two packages for specialized operation and
maienance facilities) and under UIB (in three packages for measuring Instruments, tools and vehicles)
from selected qualified suppliers. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive preference in bid
evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower. Considering the sophisticated
nature of the principal supply and installation packages under the project, this should involve only limited
ancillary supplies for the local networks and support systems or tooling for technical operation and
maitenance. Goods, works and services constituting the local component under each category of the
project to be financed from BTC's own resources will be procured in accordance with BTC's prevailing
procedures, rules and regulations for procurement.
3.16         The MIS comprises hardware, software and installation and implementation assistance,
including staff training which would be procured in two phases. The initial phase involves procurement
of consultancy services according to Bank Guidelines for Consultants for developing detailed design and
specifications for MIS, including bidding documents, and is expected to be completed by end 1993. The
second phase involves supply and installation services for implementation of MIS which would be
procured under turnkey contracting arrangements through ICB under the Bank Guidelines. The initial
design phase may recommend separate subpackages for hardware and software with associated installation
services, including training depending on the strategy to be developed as part of the design work which
will be reviewed by the Bank. Procurement of consultant services for the design phase of MIS and for
audit of BTC's financial accounts would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for recruitment of
consultants.



- 15-
Table 3.3: Summar of Prcutemen Afa,ngeme
(UIS$ million) A/
Procuremont Method                      Total
Proiect Element               Xfl        Others        .. bk          Cost
Disital Overlav Network
Switching Equipment              62.2           -          53.9         116.1
Transmission Equipment           54.4           -          28.9          83.3
(Microwave Links)             (16.1)          -           -           (16.1)
Local Networks                   20.9           -          35.1          65.0
Network Mnagement Systems         3.7          0.5          4.2           8.4
(0.8)       (0.5)/                      (1.3)
Mananement Information System
Design and Engineering                         1.0                        1.0
(1.0)M                     (1.0)
Equiyment and Services           10.0                       5.9          15.9
(Hardware/Software)           (10.0)                                  (10.0)
Technical Assistance                5.3         2.0           4.4          11.7
Weld.6/         .          .1.6)
Total                            165.5         3.5         132.4         301.4
World Bank Financed              (26.9)        (3.1)                     (30.0)
Percent of Bank Loan              89.6X       10.4S                      100.OX
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective SCunts financed by the Bank Loan.
jf Includes contingencies.
k/ N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed, principally consisting of BTC financed local component
of the project costs.
2V Under Limited International Bidding Procedures according to the Dank Guidelines.
4/ According to Bank Guidelines for selection of consultants (August 1981).
AUl ICB contracts for goods estimated to cost more than US$200,000 individually and all contracts under
LlB and for consultants services, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would involve about
99% of the total value of contracts to be financed by the Bank. Implementation arrangements, including
procurement, are discussed in para 3.19.
F. Disbursement
3.17           The Bank funds would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of CIF cost of imported goods or
ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods subject to ICB; (b) 85% of the cost of the supply of
goods, associated works and services with respect to turnkey contracts; (c) 100% of the cost for training
and technical assistance; and (d) 100% of CIF cost of goods and services procured through LIB, subject
to a maximum of US$0.5 million. Expenditures amounting to a maximum of US$3 million (10% of the
Loan amount) which would be incurred within the 12-month period prior to loan signature to finance the
eligible expenditures for microwave links and consultancy services contracted under Bank procurement
guidelines, would be eligible for retroactive financing. Based on the implementation schedule for the
project (shown by major bid packages in Annex 3), BTC reasonably expects the proposed Project to be
completed by end 1997. BTC's implementation schedule appears quite realistic because the proposed
Project would utilize existing sites and cable corridors for instlling earth stations, microwave towers,
exchanges, optical fibre laying, etc., thereby eliminating the time involved in siting, acquisition of right-
of-way, civil works for buildings and towers, etc. Further, implementation arrangements for the
coflnanoed part of the project are at an advanced stage (contract award for most tenders by April 1993)
and contract completion are expected by June 1997. However, on the basis of the experience reflected
In the Bank's disbursement profile for telecommunications projects, the disbursements could be expected
to be completed about a year later. The Loan closing date, therefore, would be December 31, 1998.
Detailed disbursement schedule for the Bank loan is included in Annex 4 and is summarized in Table 3.4.



- 16-
Table 3.4: Disbursemen Schedpl
(US$ million)
Befink nX   1 994                 im         am         ml
AAIna1        6.1        10.0       8.6        4.2        1.1
CimAiatve     6.1        16.1       24.7       28.9       30.0
3.18         A special account for BTC with nitit deposit of US$2.0 million would be established
at a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would also permit the
use of statements of expenditure on contracts valued at US$100,000 or less to assist BTC in making
timely payments to the contrars. BTC would retain the supporting documents and make them available
for inspection by Bank supervision mission and by extenal auditors. No reimbursement or withdrawal
applications for less than US$100,000 would be accepted. BTC has agreed to have the special account
ond statement of expenditures oudited byindependentauditors and submit the audit report to the Bank
within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
G. Pxo ec bnDementation
3.19         The project would be implemented by BTC. An implementation bar chart for the project
is provided in Annex 3. The implementation capabilities of BTC are limited, particularly in view of the
large investments under the project and virtually no major investments undertaken by CPT/BTC in the
recent past. In recognition of its limited capabilities, BTC has: (a) recruited NEPOSTEL (the consulting
arm of PFIT Netherlands) to prepare all the tender documents for DON, including for the Bank-financed
Mlicrowave component; (b) designed all bids for contating on a supply and install (turnkey) basis; (c)
completed the evaluation of the tenders for EIB and EBRD financed contracts with significant help from
NEPOSTEL; and (d) contracted NEPOSTEL to assis with the evaluation of Bank-financed contracts and
negotiations with contactors. In addition, BTC has agreed to recruit consultants to assist in Project
Implementation, the terms of referce for which have been reviewed by the Bank in consultation with
the other lenders. EIB will finance such implemeotation consultancy. A Project Implementation
Deparment has been established within BTC and will be strengtened by long term resident experts from
the consultants for implementation. It has been agreed with BTC and the other lenders that an efficient
implementation monitoring and progress reporting system will be established and closely followed up
during supervision by the lenders. Timely project progress review and implemenaion coordination will
take place at least once a year during the five-year project implementation. As regards MIS as said
earlier (Para 3.08), BTC would recruit consultants to design, assist in procurement, and supervise
implementation. The implementation arrangements will enable BTC to complete the project as planned
(para 3.16).
3.20         The project components are not expected to raise significant environmental issues since
most development can be accommodaed at exisdng sites.  The satellite earth station would be
accommodated within the existing Intersputnik earth station near Sofia. Installation of optical fibre cables
is relatively sraightforward mainy requiring laying of the cables in trenches along existing road and rail
corridors. The project does not have any measurable adverse environmental impact and is a Category
C for the purposes of Environmnta  Assessment. Nevertheless, during project supervision, the Bank
wil eonsure      the physical components of the project are being implemented in an environmentally
prdent manner. In fact, the proposed Project is expected to have significant environmental benefits, as
more efficient use of telecommunications will substitut for personal transportation and correspondingly
reduce environmenta pollution and promote energy consvatio



-17-
1. liect Monitoring and Bank Supervisiog
3.21         BTC will fuish Quarwly Pogress Reports whose format and contents are sasfadtoy
to the Bank. It is expected that BTC's reruitm  of an experienced Project Implementation Consulta
(pia 3.19) will help the Bank to carry out in-depth supervision of the technical and project maagem
aspec. As said earlier (piar 3.19), all the contcs for the DON and MIS are on a urney basis3 and
the project can be Implemented sucesfly, once these contracts are awarded. Therefore, a measure
of success of project implem on wil be that all contracts for the DON should be awarded by end-
1993 and the contracts for the MIS Installaidon phase should be awarded by September 1994. The total
esmated staff time requird for Bank supevision wUi be about 80 staff weeks spread over the next five
years. The distribution of staff time is as follows: (a) 50 staff weeks for a telecommunications engineer
and financial analyst, with assistnce fom an economist drawn as required; (b) 10 staff weeks for a
specialist in telecommunications reguations and policy; and (c) 20 staff weeks for review and assessment
of procuement, disbursement and any   ironmenta issues, cofinanciurs coordinations, other issues that
may arise during imple  ion, and for Project completion.
IV. THE BORROWER:               if llD MMNICAIONS COMPANY
A. Ba&KgrQIund
4.01         To address the problems of a combined post and telecommunications operation, and in
accordae with the Strategy for the Sector, BTC and BPC have been separately established; and B" -
Is being reorgand into a full fnction fixed telephone network business entity. This will also pave the
way for quicker introduction of privae investors into the sector initially in mobile and value-added
servces and later also in the fixed telephone network. This chapter discusses: the process of separating
BPC and BTC and the progress made to date; the implementation of a filly functional orgaization
stucture, staffing and managemeat systems for BTC; and the other businesses (e.g., cellular, data
communications) that BTC will be involved in and their impact on BTC.
B. Separaton of BPC and BTC
4.02         A separadon plan which covers organization, equipment, propety, buildings and other
assets, and finances was prepared by CPT and the (erstwhile) Bulgarian Post and Telecommunications
Company. Ozainal separadon involved separng activities at headquarts, in the regions and
the independent entities. Separation of equipment required a decree to be passed. Most buildings and
propety will be allocated to BPC and BTC wil pay rent to BPC for the use of such property and
buidings. Financia separon involved detaiing methods of dividing crediors, debtors, fumds and
outtding tax issues at the time of separation.
4.03         While progress is being made in separating the physical and financial aspects of the two
business, separation of staff iS pogressoing much more slowly. The reasons are that there are large
numbers of staff involved and some of them are involved in both telecommunication and postal activities.
To overcome the problems, staff are being alocated in accordance with their main job content to either
BPC or BTC with the intent to have one company pay, on a contract basis, for the services rendered by
staff of the other company. Purthemore, kItead of signing contacts at regional levels, a single contract
will be signed anmially at the national level.
4.04         At headqtes, the split betwoee BTC and BPC has already tacen place. The separation
at regional, area and post office levels will be phased in over the next 12 to 18 months, together with the
strengthening of BTC. The Bank wil monitor closely the separation process during supervision, in view



- 18-
of the Impact it has on BTC (asset transfer, rental payments and contractual payments for services) and
its finances. At the same time, the Bank will provide advice to CPT/BPC on a reform program for the
postal activities in view of the benefits, such as a reduced burden on national budgets, that such a reform
program could realize.
C. Corporate Development of BTC
IASI E=aework
4.05         BTC was Incorporated as a joint stock company in December 1992, with an authorized
capital of Lv 1.3 billion (US$324 million equivalent) under the Bulgarian Commercial Code (1990)
following the Council of Ministers' approval (on December 10, 1992) for the creation of BPC and BTC.
4.06         The second major element of the legal framework that will govern the functioning of BTC
is the Operator License to be issued by CPT (as the regulator) to BTC to operate fixed telephone
network. CPT has drafted the proposed license which has been reviewed by the Bank. The proposed
license will be awarded to BTC for 25 years and permits the Company to offer specified services, i.e.,
fixed telephone network services. The license will stipulate universal service provision obligations, set
quaity of service standards, and identify reporting relationships. The specifics of the required quality
of service standards will be developed as part of the regulatory framework program for 1993 (para 2.20)
and will be updated periodically thereafter. Other services (e.g., cellular) are specifically excluded in
the license, but BTC can apply to CPT for a separate license for itself or a joint venture to provide such
services. BTC's license conditions can also be changed under circumstances defined in the license.
there is no monopoly provision in the BTC license, and CPT has the power to decide on a
monopoly/duopoly or open basis, as the Government's policy evolves towards liberalization. The terms
and conditions of BTC's proposed license are satisfactory to the Bank, as they are consistent with industry
practices and do not inhibit further changes of policy in the future. EIE and EBRD loans will not become
effective until BTC is issued a licenbc by CPT. The issuance by CPTof an operator license to BaC that
is satisfactory to the Bank Is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
Organization and Management
4.07         In accordance with the requirements of the Bulgarian Commercial Code, a seven member
Board of Directors has been established for BTC. Appointment of individuals to the Board was recently
approved by the Council of Ministers. The Board comprises four members, including the President, who
are senior managers of BTC. There are three outside Directors, one from CPT, one from the staff of
Council of Ministers and one from Ministry of Finance. Given that more than 50% of the Board
comprises senior managers of the company, there will be little separation between corporate policy
making (a Board fimction) and policy implementation (a management responsibility). More outside
Directors, particularly without strings attached to the Government would have been desirable. However,
given the lack of individuals in Bulgaria who have experience in conventional (western) corporate
governance, the composition of the Board is satisfactory.
4.08         The organizational structure of BTC (summarized in Annex 5) comprises eight divisions,
each of which is headed by a Vice President. The eight divisions are: (i) Strategic Planning;
(ii) Network Development and Implementation; (iii) Local Services; (iv) Trunk and International Services;
(v) Human Resources; (vi) Marketing and Business Development; (vii) Finance; and (viii) Information
Technology. In addition, corporate services functions, comprising departments for legal services, Internal
Audit, Office of the President and Special Communications, report directly to the President. Moreover,
a Change Management Team, also reporting directly to the President, has been established to facilitate
effective implementation of the split between posts and telecommunications and the corporate development
of BTC. The President and the eight vice presidents, who collectively form the Executive Board, have



- 19 -
all been appointed. Tbe functions of each of the vice presidencies is discussed in the following
paragraphs under: (i) Planning; (i) Project Implementation; (iii) Network Operations; (iv) Human
Resources; (v) Marketing and Business Development; (vi) Information Technology; and (vii) Financial
Management. The function of Change Management Team are discussed under Implementation of
Corporate Development of BTC.
Plin
4.09         Tbe Strategic Planning Division, headed by a Vice President, will be responsible for long-
term Strategic Planning in the company and for compilation of medium-term corporate plans for the
zompany (because respective divisions wIll carry out medium term planning responsibilities, e.g.,
Personnel Planning is expected to be carried out by the Human Resources Division, Financial Planning
by the Finance Division, etc.). Tne Strategic Planning Division will have three departments-one each,
for Strategic Planning and Analysis; setting planning standards/procedures and for forecasting; and for
Logistics. In its strategic planning role, the division will be responsible for analyzing the impact of
introducing new products/services and entering into joint ventures. It will also be responsible for
monitoring performance against planned targets and for reporting to the external agencies (e.g., regulator,
lenders, etc.) through the Executive Board. The strategic planning function is new in BTC and although
key service staff are appointed, significant skills addition, through recruitment and training is required.
Eroiect Imnementation
4.10         Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Network Development and
Implementation Division, which is also headed by a Vice President. Tbe high profile given to this
function is due to: the significance of the proposed Project, in particular on BTC's future; and the fact
that BTC's investment program amounts to about US$1.8 billion over the next 15 years. The Division's
function will include medium-term investment planning, project implementation, including procurement
and contracting, and project monitoring. As such, the Division will also be involved in reporting to
exten  agencies in its sphere of activity, again through the Executive Board. The Division will have
two departments-one for the DON Project and the other for other investments. Key staff have been
appointed to the division. In addition, it is likely that relevant units of the Institute for Scientific Research
in Telecommunications (ISRT), which among other things performs engineering designs for investment
schemes, will be merged into the division.
Nevow& gperations
4.11         The responsibility for operating the network is shared between two Divisions-one for
local services and the other for Trunk and International Services-each of them headed by a Vice
President. As regards Local Services, the present 28 regions will be merged into 11 Regions to exercise
better control, both technical and managerial. Each Region will be headed by a Director who, in turn,
will have technical (operation and maintenance, customer services) and management support (MIS, human
resources, marketing and finance) functions under him. In parallel, the Vice President Local Services
will have Dispatching, Network Support and Technical Audit Departments. The Trunk and International
Division will comprise six departments for Technical Support (network, restoration, technical audit);
Financial Support (eased line accounts, international accounts, etc.); International Transmission; National
Transmission; National Infrastructure (International Exchanges); Radio/TV, telex, ESK, Cable; and
Dispatching. As can be expected, the bulk of BTC's staff will be involved in Network operations. Key
headquaers staff have been appointed and the consolidation of reporting responsibilities of staff (from
27 into 11 divisions) will be done throughout 1993. No physical movement of staff is expected in such
consolidation.



-20-
Human RmDrm
4.12         This Division, also headed by a Vice President, will be responsible for: Personnel Policy
(recruitment policy, development of staff appraisal systems, salaries and reward policy, etc.); staff
development and training, including senior management taining; employee relations and social welfare
(negotiations with Labor Union, health and safety policies, etc.); and humnan resources planning and
productivity and performance measurement These functions will be carried out through five distinct
departments. Since a petsonnel function existed in the erstwhile organization, staff have already been
assigned to the new division, particularly at headquarters. However, several new skills (e.g. designing
and Implementing performance based reward schemes), need to be acquired.
4.13         Although BTC's labor is unionized, the Management-Labor relationship has been smooth,
as a consequence of better working terms and conditions, relative to ma rin industry. Also, there
have not been any significant loss of jobs and none is expected over the next few years in view of the
projected growth of the systemn.
Marketin and Business Develmn
4.14         A modern digital telecommunications network enables the operator (BTC) to provide
vanous services related to fixed telephone network, such as call waiting, call forwarding, messaging, etc.
However, such services, which have the potendal to earn significant amount of revenue to the operator,
need to be marketed, since the utility and/or the process of using these services is not easily understood
by the consumers. Accordingly, BTC has established a Marketing and Services Development Division,
headed by a Vice President. This division, in addition to marketing new services, will monitor service
quality and carry out public relations and advertising. lhe Division will comprise three departments.
This is a new function in BTC, and only key staff at headquarters have been appointed.
MormaTio  echnology
4.15         The functions of information collection, processing and dissemination for operational and
maerial uses, will be the responsibility of the Information Technology Division, headed by a Vice
President. The Vice President for Information Technology wil also be responsible for the design and
implementation of the MIS component, proposed to be financed by the Bank (para 3.02). The
Information Technology Division will have four departments for Development Projects, Infrastructure
Maintenance6 Data Center Operations and for cooperation with the Regions. The former organization
had a functioning Information Technology Unit and all the staff and facilities of this unit have been
transferred to the new division.
4.16         The Financial Management Division, headed by a Vice President, will be responsible for
accounting and financial management functions. The division will comprise separate departments for
accountig, treasury activities and for fincia planning and budgeting. The relevant staff of the former
finance unit of the combined post and telecommunications operations have been assigned to the new
Financial Management Division. As regards acounting system, an accruals-based accounting system
does exist in the company. However, it does not allow for assessment of profitability of product/services,
is deficient in controls and does not comply with generally accepted accounting principles. Therefore,
consultants (Touche Ross/DTI) have designed a modern accounting system which is intended to be
computerzed as a part of the Bank-financed MIS component (para 3.06). The new accounting system
allows for  sesm t of cost/profit performance for (geographical) regions as well as for
product/services. In designing the new system, the consultants have just expanded the existing Chart of
Accounts to provide for better control and for identification of costs and revenues by



- 21 -
reglon/product/service. Therefore, the change from the existing to the new system will be smooth. In
fact, the 1993 accounts will be mantained in accordance with the new system to a large extent.
Internal and External Audit
4.17         An Internal Audit Department reporting to the President of BTC haw been established.
Although technical audit of operations and construction activities existed and will exist in the new
organization (para 4.08), internal audit function in the conventional (western) sense is relatively new in
the sector. Therefore, the internal audit function needs to be developed from sctch. As regards
extnal audit, BTC will recruit an internationally reputable auditor to audit its accounts, to comply with
agreements reached with EIB and EBRD. In fact, the external auditor will be financed under the
technical assistance component of the proposed Bank Loan (para 4.19). The accounts of 1992 are
expected to be audited soon after the auditors' appointment in early 1993. BTC has agreed to furnish
to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year starting with 1993 accounts, the
company's annual accounts audited by Internationally reputable auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Ilementation of th Cort =  Development of BTC
4.18         Corporate Development of BTC will be the responsibility of the Executive Board, with
consultants assistance. In early December 1992, the Executive Board was involved in a workshop,
together with consultants (KPMG), where the decisions on the final organizational structure have been
taken. BTC, with the help of the consultants, is developing an Action Plan to implement the Corporate
Development of BTC. Corporate development of BTC will comprise: (i) decisions on organizational
structure and appointment of senior management which has been completed; (ii) selection of staff into the
agreed structures, both at headquarters and in the regions, which can be completed by December 1993;
and (iii) implementation of systems (processes, procedures and policy) such as accouning, personnel
manement, etc. and training of staff to operate the systems-which could be done through December
1995. BTC, in accordance with an acceptable action plan furnished to the Bank before May 31, 1993,
has agreed to implement before December 31, 1995 its Corporate Development Program.
TecbnicalAsaistance
4.19         Significant amounts of exterly funded technical assistance is required to implement the
Corporate Development Program of BTC. The technical assistance needs have been broadly identified
(Annex 6), but have to be defined in greater detail with respect to preparation of TORs, definition of type
of consultants (individuals, consulting firms, twinning arrangements with operating utilities) and their
financing, utilizing the existing (EC-PHARE, EIB and EBRD) and proposed IBRD funds.
4.20         BTC is carrying out the above tasks, with the assistance of its present consultants (KPMG,
Touche Ross/DTI, etc.). In identifying the type of consultants required, care is being given to
minimzing the number of consultants involved with BTC. One way of doing so is to select an overseas
fixed telephone network operator under a twinning arrangement. Such an arangement can provide
assistance with a wide range of activities and, perhaps, more importntiy, provide for hands-on training
to BTC staff in the twinned fixed telephone network facilities abroad. One possible impediment to such
an arrangement may be that the technical assistance funding is available from four different agencies with
differing utlization guidelines. OTC has reached agreements with EC-PHARE, EIB, EBRD and the Bank
on *he technical assistance to be financed by the respective financiers.



-22 -
D. Joint Ventures for Other Services
4.21         Efforts are being made to introduce other services such as cellular telephony, data
networking and paging services. Among them, introduction of cellular network is at a very advanced
s.<ge of preparation. The foreign investor/operator, Cable&Wireless (C&W) of U.K. is currendy
negotiating the Interconnection Agreement with CPI and BTC. BTC will be a (39%) Joint Venture (JV)
partner and its contribution will be facilities and equipment, i.e no cash. C&W will own 49% of the
company and will be the operator. The remaining 12% will be held by local institutions and investors.
The inftrmation provided to the Bank about the JV suggested that BTC's participation in the JV would
be financially beneficial to BTC. The JV will provide its services through an analog (NMT450) cellular
technology. The JV represents a significant amount of foreign risk investment when the country is unable
to mobilize even trade credits; and the operator chosen is a reputable operator of international fixed and
mobile networks. On the question of technology, there is recognition that the present consumer demand
can only support one operator for the analog cellular technology which is the only practical option today.
After a few years, CPT plans to introduce digital cellular networks (GSM), at which time CPT will
invite bids for providing services. At least two operators will be selected (since digital cellular can
support more than one operator) and the present (C&W/BTC) JV can bid for obtaining one of the
licenses. Developments in this area will be closely followed during Project supervision. In addition,
understanding has been reached with CPT and BTC that although there are no reasons to doubt
C&W/BTC's statement that BTC's participation in the JV will be beneficial to BTC, an independent
assessment is required prior to the issuance of the license to the JV.
4.22         Bulgarian authorities are also considering the introduction of data communications services
in the country. This service is also expected to be a JV between a foreign investor/operator (US Sprint)
and BTC. CPT will also introduce paging services for which two national operators (in two frequencies)
and one local (Sofia) operator will be selected on a competitive basis. It is expected that BTC may apply
for one of the national paging system licenses. While it is encouraging that progress is being made with
the identification of services and even investors/operators to provide other services, there are two
concerns:
(a)   the lack of a formal Statement of Policy may be restricting the number of private sector
investor/operators intending to provide other services in Bulgaria; and
(b)   that BTC may be using its monopoly situation to have a role in all of these services.
BTC need not be prevented from playing a role in these services, but, if BTC's involvement in the
provision of a particular service proves justified, BTC should be required to form a joint venture with
a private partner after careful assessment of the benefits and costs of BTC's involvement. To bring in
transparency to the process of invitation/selection/ licensing of operators to provide other services,
understanding has been reached with CPI that it will issue a Sector Policy Statement which will attract
a wider foreign investor/operator interest; and strengthen its policy making and regulatory functions (para
2.20).
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
5.01         The financl affairs of BTC are now governed by the new Bulgarian Commercial Code
and the National Accounting Law which was issued in April 1991. The National Accounting Law is
based on the principles contained in the European Commission's directive on company law that provides



-23 -
the basic framework for operation of an accoundng system on commercial basis. Efforts began in 1989
to separate the accounts lnternally In the old CPT (para 2.01) by major business function, viz., posts,
telecommunications, radio and TV, etc. By 1991, most of the revenue accounts were identified and
manained separately, while the separation process for asset accounts continued until end 1992. Financial
statements for 1992 by each major business function are expected to be finalized by early 1993. Ihis
chapter discusses the financial and related operational aspects of BTC, the issues related to its future
prospects and the agreements to be reached for ensuring BTC's financial viability.
B. Past Permance and Present Condition
5.02            BTC's operating results for the period 1989-92 is provided in Annex 7 and summarized
in Table 5.1. BTC's revenues and costs, are presented in constant 1992 Leva in order to isolate the effect
of high inflation in Bulgaria during the 1990-92 period.
Table 5.1: IBTC's Oerational and Financial Performance 1989-92
(n 1992 Leva)
Est.    1989-92
1989     1        1i9      1        Growth 
Tariffs/Pulse - Residential (Love)        0.26     0.22    0.18    0.15         -17X
- Business (Lava)           0.39      0.38    0.36    0.30         -8%
Annual Subscription (Lova)                 208       122      28       50       -381
Leva Million
Operating Revenues                        6215     5279    3773    2796         -23Z
Operating Costs                           2272     2491    1652    2331           31
Operating Incoe                          3944     2788    2121       465       -511
Postal Subsidy                             964     1008      511      375       -271
Net nacome after Taxes                     171       (54)    120    (217)       -88X
------------------------------------------.-----------------------__---------__-------
Operating Ratio (1)                         37       47       44       83
Debt-Service Cover (times)                 n.a      n.a      2.3      5.4
Accounts Receivable (uonths)               U.a      n.e      2.1      2.3
Return on Net Fixed Assets (X) *I         12.4      13.6    18.4      7.12
Current Ratio                              n.a.     0.4      0.5      0.7
-------------------------------_------------------------------------___-_----__----_--
No.of Working Line" tQO0) k/              2035     2152    2215    2249         3.41
Revenue/DIL (Loya)                        3055     2453    1704    1243         -262
Cost/DEL (Leva)                           1116      1158     746    1036         -31
Op. Profit/DEL (Leva)                     1938      1295     958      207       -531
Staff Cost/DEL (Lava)                      459      460      398      431        -21
No.of DELThaployee                          76       83       a6       87         51
Memo Items: Domestic Inflation (X)           9       30      296       77
Leva/US$ Ezch.Rate           0.83      2.32    18.0    23.3
&/ Before postal subsidy. On unrevalued a"sets for 1989 and 1990.
k) Year average.
5.03            BTC's operatng and financial performance deiorated sharply during 1989-92. This
is mainy attributable to the decrease in tariff levels in real tems and the stgnated demand during 1991-
92 due to recession. Tariffs (eva/pulse) for both usage and annual subscription decreased at -17%
(residential pulse rate), -8% (business pulse rate) and -38% (subscription). The declining tariffs in real
terms generated less revenue and increased congestion in the network. Such congestion prevented high
value calls (non-local) to be madelcompleted and contributed to loss of revenues (para 2.07). The low
subscription and connection eharges were also responsible for the increased congestion as about 200,000
lines were addea to the network during the period. Most of these lines were given to residential
subscribers thereby decreasing BTCs revenues. As a consequence of declining tariffs, congestion in the
network and the stagnant demand, BTC's operating revenues declined by 23% during the period. To



-24 -
complicate the situation, BTC's operating costs increased by 3%, because staff costs, material costs,
dectricty prices, etc., increased at or near inflation levels. As a result, the company's operating income
decdined by 51 % on average over the period. Additional burdens were placed on BTC during 1992, both
in cash and non-cash terms: (a) the contribution to the National Communications Fund was increased
from I% of revenue to 4% of revenue; and (b) the depreciation charged in 1992 was about five times
higher than In 1991, as a consequence of revaluation of assets at end-1991. Therefore, the company's
Operating Ratio deteriorated from a healthy 37% in 1989 to 84% in 1992. Despite the dec"nes in
opratg income, BTC had to pay income taxes (since the prevailing tax laws allow for deducting only
50% of interest from taxable income), and subsidize postal operations. BTC's net income declined, as
a result, by an average of 86% during the period.
Table 5.2: BTC's Summary Financial Position as at end 1992
(Leva million)
Gross Fixed Assets            10,463
Less Accumulated Depn.        2217
Het Fixed Assets              8.245
Work in Progress                253
Total Current Assets            854
of fhich, Account Receivable    524
Total Assets                  P3
Equity                        8,151
Long-term Debt                    0
Current Liabtlity             1,202
of which, Foreign Tel.Admins.   40
Total Liabilities & Equity    9.3S3
5.04          BTC's financial position as at end-1992 is summarized in Table 5.2. As expected, given
dte sniflcant drop in BTC's income in 1992, Its return on net revalued assets in use fell from a
aisfactory 18% in 1991 to 7% in 1992. The accounts receivable position, at about 2 months of sales,
s satfactory. BTC had no long-term debt as of end-1992. However, BTC's current ratio is less than
i.0, primaily because of outstanding arrears to foreign telecommunications administrations expected to
be about US$17 million at end 1992, caused pardy by the foreign exchange crisis in the recent years.
Iewnational settlements also result in significant foreign exchange liability. Therefore, BTC's historical
intnaonal settlement performance is discussed below in detail.
BCs nSettements
5.05          Bulgaria has been a net exporter of telephone traffic due to three main inter-related
rsOS: population movements, technical limitations of the network and international call tariffs.
Bulgaras large ethnic Turkish population produces a strong underlying demand for telephone calls from
Bulgaria to Turkey. Traffic with Turkey accounts for over 35% of total net outgoing for BTC.
Secondly, the technical limitations of the network favor outgoing international calls because there are over
2000 auomatic exchanges from which direct international outgoing calls can be made, while only about
200 exchanges can receive calls automatically from abroad. Also, the current metering system can only
measue a maximum of 50 pulses/minute, restricting some international tariffs to be increased without
incasing the pulse rate (which affects all calls). Finally, since tariff adjustments have lagged behind
inflaton, Bulgarian tariffs to foreign destinations are lower than the correspondiog foreign tariffs for calls
to Bulgara, which encourages callers to give preference to calls from Bulgaria. Tariffs for inational
ca  have been historically very low in Bulgaria, even now accoungt   for about 40-60% of tariffs of
countries to which over 50% of traffic is accounted. A comparison of BTC's international tariffs to
T1rky, Germany and Greece with corresponding tariffs to Bulgaria is shown in Table 5.3.



-25 -
Table 5.3: Smple  maison  f BI        's atermational ladfa
(As of October 1992, in US$ equivalent)
Torkev    Ger3nm    Greece
From Bulgaria to:               0.38      0.46      0.38
To Bulgaria from:               0.90      0.87      0.63
Bulgarian Tariff as I of
Other Country Tariff           42X       53X       61X
5.06           Details of net outgoing traffic and foreign exchange liabilities for 1990-91 period are
given in Annex 8 and summarized in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4: BTC's Inenational Traffic and Paymens. 1990-92
(Million minutes and US$ million) A/
Eat.
i98      imt      29s     Gr.Ratee
Outgoing Traffic                   62.0      71.3     73.9      9.32
Incominag Traffic                  28.0     42.3      56.0     41.7S
Net Outgoing Traffic               34.0     29.0      17.9    -26.5X
Outgoing/Incoming Ratio             2.2      1.7       1.3      ---
Ave.Settlement/min (US$) W         0.26     0.26      0.26      ---
Settlement Liability               8.84      7.60     4.70    -26.12
v/ Includes both direct and trasit traffic.
k/ Based on actual total liability for 1990-91 and estimated for 1992.
Despite their decline in real terms, the large nominal increases to tariffs in 1991 and 1992 (the
interational tariffs have been increased by about 120% in nominal terms during 1991 and 1992)
contributed to slower growth in outgoing traffic (3.8% over 1992/91 compared to 15% over 1991/90).
Also in mid-1992, BTC installed a satellite dish in Sofia and linked it to PIT Netherlands. This satellite
link through Netherlands provides about 200, incoming only channels, thus decongesting the incoming
calls. Furthermore, there has been some migration of etnic Turks to Turkey which has resulted in
reducing traffic to Turkey. As a consequence of the above, BTC's international traffic and hence its
settlements liability shows a favorable trend over the 1990-92 period: there has been a significant growth
in the incoming traffic (41.7% p.a) compared with the outgoing traffic (9.3% p.a) resulting in reduced
net outgoing traffic (-26.1% p.a). Accordingly, BIC's setdement liabilities also reduced from US$8.8
million annually in 1990 to an estimated US$4.7 million in 1992 (based on Jan-Sep 1992 actual traffic
data).
C. Investments and Financing
5.07           BTC's investment phasing and financing for the period 1993-97 is provided in Annex 9
and summarized in Table 5.5.



-26 -
Table 5.5: ETC's Investm nts  nd Fi cn  lan. 1993-97
(Current Prices)
-    -Leva Fill --   US$ Million------
Loal   Forsism  XTotal       Local  Foreian   Total       S
ReoXreamets
Prooosed Proiect
Investments                     4856     6170    11026        132.4    169.0  301.4      73
Tnterest During Constn. at      k.       _         1475        384               84
Total Proposed Project            an3      67       1           170L8    189 0   339 8    -81
Short-Tosm ProJects                121      162       283         3.8     5S1      8.9      2
Subsequent DigitaUlzation k/      1043     1326      2369        26.7    34.0    61.7      ;G
Interest During Constrn. 2/         go0        _     _S0        2.5              _2.S        1
Total Requirements                7S85     2        1S243       203 8   208 1   411.9    100
Finauncins
Gross ICG                        19184              19184       507.6            507.6
Loss   Debt-Service 4/            2434               2434        63.2             63.2
Working Capital            4632               4632       120.9            120.9
Dividends                  3631 .3631                     95 1             95 1
Not ICG                           8486               8486       228              228.3      55
Net ICG Applied St                7585      901      8486       203.8    24.5  228.3        55
Foreign Borrowing:
BID                                 2731     2731                  75.1    75.1     18
D RD                                1403      1403                 39.4    39.4     10
World Bank                          1135      1135                 30.0    30.0       7
Netherlands PTT                       78        76                  2.4     2.4       1
Other V                             1412      141                  36*7    36.7      9
Total Financing                            2 78    15243        I& 8       J2a   4119    100
&f IDC on Foreign loans to be financed from own resources.
hi Towards the next phase of digitalization beginning 1997.
/ IDC for the Other Investments.
4/ Includes IDC.
g/ Foreign cost financing by BTC for microwave link to Greece and local network rehabilitation.
f USS2.6 million in supplier credits. US934 illion funding for next phase not identified.
5.08             BTC's investment requirements over the 1993-97 period amounts to Leva 15.2 billion
(US$412 million) including IDC of Leva 1.6 billion (US$41 million). Local currency requirements
represent about 48% of the total requirements and include IDC on foreign loans. The proposed Project
accounts for about 81% of BTC's medium-term investments. The medium term investments also include
the initial year's investments for the next phase of the digitalization project (about US$61 million,
including US$2.5 million in IDC) to be started in 1997. BTC's financing plan for its 1993-97 investment
program shows that the company would be able to finance from its internal sources about 55% of its
requirments, i.e., almost all of the local currency requirements. This is satisfactory especially in view
of the lack of domestic capital markets. All foreign currency requirements are expected to be met from
borrowings. Presently committed loans from EED, EBRD and the Bank amount to about 35% of the total
requirements or about 70% of foreign currency requirements, leaving a gap of about US$34 million
equivalent in 1997. This gap pertains to the proposed investments in the next phase of the digitalization
of the fixed telephone network. However, about US$14 million are expected to be available from EIB
loan due to the lower than estimated bid prices which would reduce the 1997 financing gap to a large
extent, and EIB has agreed to consider allowing BTC to use the savings subject to BTC justifying these
investments. The proposed Project would enable BTC to mobilize addidonal resources to undertake the
second phase of investments. BTC's proposed financing plan for its medium-term investments is
satisfactory.
D. Financial Ercas
5.09             The detailed discussion of the company traffic forecasts is provided in the Project
Justification  chapter (Chapter VI).   Details of BTC's tariff structure, trends, deficiencies and
restucturinglrebalancing proposals are presented in Annex 10 and summarized below.



- 27 -
Tariff Poli
5.10         The present telecommunications tariffs in Bulgaria comprise usage charges (Leva/pulse)
and access charges (rental fees, connection charges). Based on international trends, the new digital
technologies which have high capacities of information transmission and enable provision of other services
with minimal equipment addition, will cause a decrease in unit operating costs. Therefore, the domestic
and, especially, international telephone tariffs need to be based on mechanisms that will restructure the
revenue base, to derive a larger portion of the BTC's income from access charges compared to present
levels, and revising the usage charges to attract high value traffic, e.g, business subscribers and reduce
congestion in the network. The BTC's tariffs would be restructured by: shifting away from usage charges
towards access charges; increasing residential tariffs at a higher rate than those for business for local
calls; and introducing more time bands for long distance and international traffic with a view to: (a)
maximize the use of the network for profitable services; (b) generate sufficient revenues from operations
to finance a reasonable portion of its investments; and (c) control the growth in international settlement
liabilities. CPT/BTC are being presently helped by consultants (Touche Ross) to develop a tariff policy
along the above lines. The tariff policy would recommerd measures to take into account the prevailing
limitations such as metering system (para 5.05), reliable cost information (para 5.01), etc., in the
medium-term as weil as to provide the basis for subsequent rebalancing and restructuring of tariffs in line
with international trends. GOB and BTC have agreed to implement, no later than January 1, 1994, a
new telecommunications tariff policy for BTC satisfactory to the Bank.
5.11         Pending implementation of a new tariff policy, in order to ensure that BTC's tariffs are
not eroded by inflation and that sufficient funds are available for finmacing the investments, tariffs would
need to  e increased during 1993. The financial projections indicate that tariffs would need to be
increased by 30% on average in real terms in May 1993 over the levels prevailing on May 1, 1992 and
iat they need to be mawntaned at that level through quarterly increases to meet BTC's financial
obligations and targets in 1993. GOB and BTC have agreed: (aJ as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan, to increose tariffs by not less than 30% In real terms over the levels prevailing as of
may 1, 1992; and (bi to maintain tariffs at such level through quarterly increases until a new tariff
policy, satisfactory to the Bank, is adopted. The inflation levels used to effect such tariff increases will
be based on the Consumer Price Index published monthly by the National Institute of Statistics.
5.12         The effects of rate rebalancing and restructuring is shown on a "tariff basket" for a typical
residental and a typical business subscriber. A tarff basket comprises the minutes (or pulses) of local,
long distance and international caUs a typical residential or business subscriber makes in a year, and
represents an average annua bill for a typical subscriber. Tariff forecasts were prepared using tariff
basket as an indicative basis to achieve desirable operational and fiancial performance criteria, while at
the same time rebalancing and restructuring the rates. Such forecasts indicate that the tariff basket would
increase by about 34% for residential and 23% for business subscribers on average annually through the
year 2000. Most of these increases are projected to occur during project period 1993-1997, and to be
kept slightly above inflation levels during the following years.
5.13         BTC's forecasted financial statements and performance indicators are presented in Annex
11 and 12 respectively and summaized in Table 5.6.



-28 -
Table 5.6: Summary of BTC's Opgeradonal nd Finadal Foecasts,   2-2
gr.RRat. 2
]3t  1{lI    Jak    3tl ml nul1 no0                       lS92-2000
Minute. Cbarged (billuon)         7.4      6.4      6.8       7.1      7.6      8.7     9.9        3.72
of thich - Residential          5.2      4.S      4.7      4.8       5.0      5.8     6.3        2.41
- Buiness              2.2      1.9      2.1      2.3      2.6      3.1      3.6        6.42
Residential Puls(Lava)           0.15     0.50     0.73     0.09      1.13     1.35    1.52       33.02
Business PU1s  (Lava)            0.30     1.00     1.20      1.28     1.28     1.35    1.52       22.52
ntwusutienal/miuate S(L*va) A/   11.8    34.5    41.5    44.7    44.9    47.4    53.2             20.72
Internationlal/inute (US$)       0.50     1.08     1.13     1.1S      1.15     1.18    1.28       12.52
Variable Uss. Toaxin Basket
Residential                       521     1176     1889    2501       2969     3968    4959       32.52
2 luaoeas. (real) k/               -4       86       39       24        13        8       4          -
Busines                          4082     8512    10754    12226    13138    15878   20178        22.12
2 Increase (real) W/              -19       69        6        4        2         4       7          -
Current Lava Million
Operating ReveFnue               Z76      5130     7951     0053    11876    15736   20780        28.52
Operating Costs                  2332     3672     4638     5426      6081     7959   10588       20.12
Operating Income                  464     2108    3313      4527      5595     7777   10201       47.12
Postal Subsidy                    375      493        -        -         -                _ 
Net Inceme after Taxes           (218)-    653     1567     2214      2759     3486    4862       49.12
---------------------_----_---------_-----------------------------__---------__-------------------------_
Financial Ratios
Operating Ratio (2)              83.4    63.2    58.3    54.5    52.1    50.6   50.9
Debt-Service Cever (times)        5.4    51.7    21.0    16.2    14.9           6.5     5.9
Internal Cash Gen. (C) S/           7       44       59       55       88        62      66
Return on Assets (1) 4/           7.1    13.7    13.3    15.(    17.2    19.3    19.5
Current Ratio                     0.7      0.8      1.0       2.:      2.4      3.3     3.4
Lt Debt/(LT debt+equLty) (2)        0       10       18       21        18       23      26
--------------------__-----_-------------------------_-----------------__----__-------------
Ma -Items
Domestic Inflation               76.9    39.4        20        10        6        6        6
Leva/US$ Exchange Rate           23.3    31.8    36.7    38.5           39       40     41.7
a/ Weighted average revenue for residential and business.
ki Nominal increase minus infLUation.
B/ On average of thre  year (past, current & subsquent years) livestamets.
4v On average revalued net fixed assets.
5.14            BTC's traffic v'ould grow from 7.4 billion minutes In 1992 to 8.7 billion mimntes in 1998
and to 9.9 billion minutes in 2000 due to the implementation of the proposed project and to the
subsequent phase of digitalization. Business traffic wold grow at over two-and-a-half imes the rate of
residental taffic (6.4%  vis-a-vis 2.4%) due to the revival of economic activities as well as the new
services that would be provided on the new digital lines. 'he traffic Is projected to experience an Initi
dip in 1993 due to the large adjustments to tariffs combined with slow economic recovery in that year.
Residential traffic would continue to be lower than 1991/92 levels untl about mid-1996 becaus of tariff
restuctring, which is intended to reduce congestion. 'he taiff incses shown beyond 1993 indicate
the levels needed to meet the financial requirements of BTC and to progress ly reach, by 1998, paity
of tariffs between residential and business subscibers. Tese would enable BTC's operig revenues
to grow from Leva 2,796 million in 1992 to Leva 20,789 million in 2000 represtg  an annual growth
rate of 28.5%. Operatig costs would grow at about 20.1%  p.a., slightly above the average infladon of
19% p.a. during 1992-2000, reflecting the real increase in prices of inputs. The progressive increase in
revenues at a rate faster than th  of costs would help BTC's operaig ratio to Improve gradually from
over 80%  in 1992 to 51%  in the year 2000, which is saisctory. BTC's progressive finacial recovey
Is also indicated by the trend in the other fincial ratios.
5.15             Due to the fact that BTC has no long-term debt outtding in 1992 and that theloans
secured so far (EIB  & EBRD) have favrable terms with 4-5 year gace period, the debt-service cover
shows unusually large values in the 1993-96 period. With the reayment of these loans starti  in Ite



-29 -
1997 (as per greements) BTC's debt-service cover drops gradually to 5.9 in 2000. In view of the fact
that a large part of BTC's debt-service would be In foreign currency, a rapid and/or unforeseen
devaluation of the Leva due to reasons beyond BTC's control, would lower BTC's debt-service cover.
In order to ensure that BTC's cash operating income would be sufficient to meet its debt-service
requirements, BTC agreed to maintain a minimum debt-service cover of 2.0 from 1993 onwards.
5.16         BTC's local cost requirements for investments are about 40% in each year. As there are
no local long-term funds in Bulgaria at present, BTC would have to finance these local cost expenditures
from its operations. Any shortfall in the company's financing would have to be met from short-term
borrowings which would undermine its financial equiibrium. To minimize this risk, BTC's primary
concern, therefore, should be to maximize its internal cash generation by cost control and eliminating
cash outflows such as subsidies to postal operations. Further, this would have the added advantage to
discourage the continuing inefficiency of the postal sector.  Subsidizing postal activities by
telecommunications revenues is a legacy and it has been agreed among GOB, BTC and BPC that BTC
will subsidize BPC only during 1993, to give time to BPC to find its own sources of financing. BTCs
financial forecasts indicates that, given the 30% real term increases in tariffs (para 5.11), BTC can
subsidize BPC only up to 25% of BTC's operating profts. GOB and BTC have agreed: (a) to limit
BTC's postal subsidies to BPC duing 1993 to 25% of BTCs operating profit or US$15.5 million
equivalent, whichever is lower; and (bi beginning with January 1, 1994, not to subsidize BPC out of
BTC's revenues. Further, BTC has agreed to: (a) generate funds from interna! sources equivalent to
not less than 25% of investments in 1993 and 40% thereafter; and (bJ maintain its current ratio above
1.0 from 1994 onwards.
5.17         A close monitoring of BTC's revenues, costs and hence the financiability of the new
investments would be critical to its financial performance and to successful implementation of the project,
especially because the revenues and costs are quite sensitive to traffic forecasts and to the macroeconomic
ftctors such as inflation and exchange rate. Further, BTC's involvement in other major projects,
including proposed/planned joint ventures, would have financial implications. In order to assess the
implications of these on BTC's business and finances, BTC would prepare a rolling five-year business
plan which would include analysis of traffic forecasts, revenues and costs, investment requirements,
financing plan, as well as qualitative and quantitative parameters for monitoring performance of BTC.
87W agreed to: (a) submit to the Bank, beginning with 1993, fts draft five-year rolling business plan
before October 31 of each year and ffnal business plan approved by GOB before December 31 of each
year; and (bi review with the Bank all major investments including alljoint ventures.
VI. PROJECTIJUSTI ICATION
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
6.01         The (Green Cover) Telecommunications Sector Report prepared by the Bank and agreed
with GOB, provided the basis for project preparation, which was carried out in close cooperation with
EIB and EBRD. EIB, EBRD and the Bank were involved in defining a least-cost investment program
(1993-2006) for the sector and jointly agreed with the Bulgarian authorities the time slice (1993-1997)
of such investments to be financed under the project. The financial contributions of each of the banks
were agreed to in a similar fashion. In parallel, the Bank took the lead role in delineating the measures
(studies, Govenmental decisions to separate policy making/regulation from operations, etc.) to improve
the policy environment. The studies are being financed by EC-PHARE. EIB and EBRD have finalized
their respective financial contributions based on the agreements to implement the recommendations of the
studies and to adopt certin (mnterim) sector performance criteria. The Bulgarian authorities and the
cofinciers are very keen about the Bank's involvement in the Project



- 30 -
6.02          The Bank's involvement in the proposed Project will ensure the implementation of sectoral
and institutional reforms in a timely manner. In addition, the proposed Bank loan will permit the
completion of the financing plan for the sector's least-cost investment program at a time when Bulgaria
has no access to private commercial credits. This, in turn, would enhance the revenue generating
capacity of BTC, which should enable BTC to undertake further development on its own in the medium-
term. The Bank's involvement in the proposed Project will also pave the way for a larger private
involvement in the sector, initially in high value-added services and specialized areas e.g. mobile
telecommunications, and later on, possibly in the fixed telecommunications network itself.
B. Demadl$up! Anus
6.03          The Bulgarian authorities, together with their consultants, have estimated that
telecommunications demand wDi treble over the next ten yearz as a result of economic growth and
restructuing in Bulgaria, In the face of substantial Xariff increases in real terms (para 5.09). It is
estimated that Bulgaria will return to positive economic growth beginning 1994 and real GDP will grow
by around 4% annually in the second half of the 1990s. The services sector is relatively small. Only
8% of the work force is employed in trade and distribution compared to between 13 and 20% in OECD
countries. Thus, the services sector is expected to grow faster than the economy as a whole which should
stimulate demand for telecommunications. In addition to real GDP growth, the improvements in the
quality and wider access to telecommunications servi^es will increase usage as will the liberalization of
products attached to the network. More regular production of directories and a more aggressive
promotion of services by the operator will also increase usage.
6.04          Market research in Bulgaria suggests that users (particularly business users' are prepared
to pay significantly more (some up to five times more) for improvements in the quality of basic services
but provides less informaton about the subscribers' interest level in new services. This is primarily
mainly because of unfarailiarity with them. Traffic measurements in 1991 and 1992 have confirmed that
business customers have restored their level of usage within a month or two after substantial tariff
increases for long distance and international service. Equivalent information is not available for the
impact of tariff changes on local service because measuring equipment is not provided to test this.
Although it is well understood that the existing very low tariffs affect the level of congestion particularly
at the local level where the users are residential customers, the impact of tariff changes on traffic at the
local level and on residential customers is not easily quantifiable.
6.05          Taking all the above factors into account and comparing Bulgaria with economies at
similar stages of development, BTC's traffic forecasts are reasonable. Nevertheless, the Bank has
prepared traffic forecasts, which are based on BTC's forecasts, but are more conservative in order to
ac ount mainly for much more frequent, i.e. quarterly increases in tariffs. The Bank's traffic forecasts
which are presented in Annex 13 are summarized in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: RTC's Traffic Forecasts. 1993-2000
(Billion Pulses charged)
Eat.
1a         3 19 94  1 9a n    1997  1998   1999ao
Total Pulses/Year             10.S   6.9   7.2    7.7    8.6    9.4   10.3   11.2   12.2
ResIdential - Local            1.8   1.3   1.4    1.5    1.5    1.6   1.7    1.8    1.9
- Long Distance      3.7   2.0   2.0    2.0    2.0    2.1   2.3    2.4    2.6
- International      0.2   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2
Business - Local               0.6   0.5   0.6    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9    0.9    1.0
- Long Distance        2.5    1.4   1.5   1.7    1.9   2.2   2.4    2.7   2.9
- tnternational        2.2    1.4   1.5   1.8    2.1    2.5   2.8    3.2    3.6
Payphones                      0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1



-31 -
BTC's traffic forecasts'show a drop in 1993 by about 36% of 1992 estimated level due to: (a) the large
increases In tariffs in 1993; and (O) the rebalancing of long distance and intenational call tariffs by
loweig the number of pulses charged per minute. The traffic would grow slowly f&om 1994 onwards.
The 1992 levels would be reached by about the middle of 1998 and grow at about 9% p.a. thereafter.
Such pattern reflects the increased digitalization of the network, with concomitant increase in access,
quality of services, decongestion, etc. in line with the implemeaion of the proposed Project.
C. ProJect Benefi
Internal Economic Rate of Retumr  ERR)
6.06         The IERR of the proposed Project is estimated at about 33%, based on measurable costs
and benefits. Measurable costs include: (a) the cost of capital and labor required to implement the
proposed Project; and (b) operation and maintenance costs. Measurable benefits includes incremental
revenues from incremental traffic based on: (a) tariff rebalancing and restructuring; and (b) tariff levels
to achiove the 40% self financing ratio (para S. 15). All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1993
prices. DP-ils regarding IERR including the assumptions used are provided in Annex 14.
6.07         IThe IERR of the proposed Project is typical of returns under telecommunications projects
and is siguificantly above the opportunity cost of capital in Bulgaria. This is because: (a) the tariffs for
telecommunications services are usually higher than the cost of providing these services; and
(b) investments in telecommunications have a relatively short gestation period and start generating
revenues before the whole project is complece. In order to test the sensitivity of IERR to less favorable
scenarios, IERRs were also calculated oa the following assumption: (a) a 10% decline in traffic forecast;
(b) a 2-year delay in project implementation; and (c) 20% increase in project costs.
Table 6.2: Sensitivity Analysis: Rates of Return (%)
Base Case                                   1-6         33.
(a) 1lG dealine in traffic                  28.6        29.9
(b) 2-year delay in ProJect Iplementation   20.9        21.7
(t) 20S increase in Project Cost            26.3        27.3
Such analysis, the results of which are presented in Table 6.2, together with the base case, indicates that
the project is sensitive to delays in project implementation (which can be minimized) as well as to decline
in traffic (which are not fully under the control of BTC). Nevertheless, even under the most unfavorable
case, i.e. delays in project implementation, the ERR of the proposed Project would be above 21%.
Financial rates of return have also been computed for all the scenarios, where the capital costs include
the 15.5% customs duties payable by BTC.
Qther Benefits
6.08         The rapid development of the telecommunications sector supported by the proposed
Project will provide the necessary basis for a quicker transition to a market economy. In addition,
modernizing the telecommunications network will provide the necessary infrastructure for the private
sector to offer high value-added services, thus contributing to the creation of employment and wealth.
The establishment of the digital infrastructure (optical fibre, microwave, systems) will enable Bulgaria
to participate in several regional telecommunications systems, e.g., CEFOS, KAFOS, etc. Participation
in such regional systems will generate additional revenues from  transit traffic.  Furthermore,
implementation of the proposed Project will result in significant revenues for the Government from



-32 -
corporate taxes, contributions to the National Communication System (NCS), and turnover taxes.
Financial projections indicate that the total resources accruing to the Government through the year 2000
(Annex 1S) is about Leva 49.4 billion (US$1.2 billion). Further, the proposed Project could be a model
for restructuring other sectors and companies in Bulgaria.
D. Risks
6.09         Sensitivity analysis of project benefits (IERR) shows that one of the risks that could affect
the proposed Project is the limited project implementation capability of the Bulgarians (para 6.06). To
address this risk, implementation of the physical components of the proposed Project will be mainly
through single-point responsibility contracts (supply and erect, turnkey, etc.) (para 3.19) and BTC will
be assisted by experienced Project Implementation Consultants. The institutional and policy reform would
be assisted by consultants and monitored closely by the Bank. The risk that the sectoral and tariff
reforms would not be carried is minimal since the Bulgarians have participated fully in the formulation
of the reform program with the assent of the highest levels of Government.
E. MsureW tS                 and Sustainabilty
6.10         BTC's operational and financial performance indicators are presented in Annex 12. All
the indicators show Improving trends, as the network expands, increased digitalization takes place, and
financial performance criteria are complied with (paras 5.14 to 5.16 and 6.05). Although BTC's
performance can be compared in theory with international comparators (e.g., OECD comparators), it is
difficult to draw conclusions from such comparison, in view of the differences that exist in all aspects
of fixed telephone network operations. These differences occur in, e.g., GDP levels, the technologies
used, penetration levels, percentage of network digitalized, etc. The forecast performance indicators,
which are proxies for measures of project success, will be monitored closely during project supervision.
The focus of monitoring will be on ensuring that all necessary measures have been taken by the relevant
Bulgarian authorities in a timely manner, rather than on strictly the achievement of quantitative targets.
In addition to such quantitative measures, qualitative measures such as the improvement of the
competence of the Bulgarian staff to make decisions based on objective analysis, the smooth functioning
of the regulatory framework, the autonomy enjoyed by the operator from its owner, will also be
monitored.
Sustainabit
6.11         High returns on investments in telecommunications development in Bulgaria, which is a
fkmction of ir ai the relatively high level of tarifis compared to costs, existence of demand, etc., will
stimulate private sector interest and involvement in the sector. This would be aided by improvements
in the telecommunications policy frmework which will include transparent regulation. In addition to
providing the necessary resources for the establishment of a modern telecommunications network, the
proposed Project would support the corporate development of BTC, which should enable the company
to improve its operational and financial efficiency and establish a track record of high quality of service
and strengthened financial position. Such strengthened financial position could allow BTC in future years
to mobilize resources direcdy, i.e., without Government guarantee, through borrowings in domestic and
foreign capital markets for its future capital expansion needs.



-33 -
VIlI S11MMMM QF A;RW=h= RE3ACED
7.01         DurI  negotiations, GOB agreed:
(a)   to take all necesary measures to establisb, by December 31, 1993, a functional
regulatory famework for the telecommunications sector acceptable to the Bank (para
2.20); and
(b)   together with BTC:
(i)   to implement, no later than January 1, 1994, a new telecommunications tariff
policy satsfactory to the Bank (Para 5.10);
(i)  to limit BTC's postl subsidies to BPC during 1993 to 25% of BTC's operating
profit or US$15.5 million equivalent, whichever is lower (para 5.16);
(Iii)  beginning with January 1, 1994, not to subsidize BPC out of BTC's revenues
(para 5.16); and
(lv)   until a new tariff policy is adopted, to increase BTC's tariffs quarterly to maintain
such taiffs at 30% in real terms above the levels prevailing on May 1, 1992,
(Para 5.11).
7.02         Duing negotiations, BTC agreed to:
(a)   take all necesary measu  to:
(I)    maiain a minimum debt-service cover ratio of 2.0 from 1993 (para i 15);
oi)  to genate funds from intnal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of
investments in 1993 and 40% thereafter (para. 5.16); and
(il) maintain its current ratio above 1.0 from 1994 onwards (para 5.16).
(O)    ()    submit to the Bank, beginning with 1993, its draft five-year rolling business plan
before October 31 of each year and final business plan approved by GOB before
December 31 of each year (pam 5.17);
(i)   review with the Bank all investments including all joint ventures (para 5.17); and
oii)  implement before December 31, 1995 its Corporate Development Program in
accordance with an acceptable action plan firnished to the Bank before May 31,
1993 (para 4.18).
(c)    have the specia account, statement of expenditures, and financial accounts audited by
inernationaoly reputable auditors and submit accounts together with the audit reports to
the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year starting with 1993 accounts
(pasr 3.18 ad 4.17).



-34-
7.03         'Me following are set as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan:
(a)   the issuance by CPr of an operator license satisfactory to the Bank to BTC (para 4.06);
(b)   increase in telecommunication tariffs by 30% in real terms over the levels prevailing as
of May 1,1992 (para 5.1 1); and
(c)   the EEB and EBRD) loans have become effective (para 3.13).
Recoamnendation
7.04         On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$30 million.



Bulgaria Telecommunication F.-oject
Sector Organization Chart
|COUCIL OF HINISTERS|
I
ICOHMITtEE OF POSTS ANID TELEOO"MMUNICATIONS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLUA    ,                                                                 F                   I ,-                    -   nr1 
RAOIO BROADCASTING           TELEVISION            BULGARIAN POST              BUL6ARIAN               CEL                   DATA NEtYORK
(1 PublIc. 4 Private        BROADCASTING               COMPANY             TELECOMMUNICATIONS  I TELEPHONE OPERATOR|  |    OPERAtOR            |  |  PAGIN6 SERVICES
Broadcasters)          PUBLIC COMPANY                                       COMPANY          L
EXISTING LC_O_M_PAN_IJEIS___                                                                         J    LRO_E_  _  _ ES
t                   ~~~~~EXISTING COMPANIES                       tt-PROPOSE0  COMPANIES-t
IK



-36-                                   Ane
Page 1 of 3
S:DUOMUNICATIONS PROJECT
lZisgSa Overlay NCMM*r lDON} Descrgo
1.1          Althouo the penetation of telephones in Bulgaria Is amongst the highest in Central and
Eas    Eurpe, with more than 24 main telephone lines per 100 populaton, the existing
tdeommunications network is based upon obsolete switching and transmission installations, using
oLsolete analogue techlogy and old type equipment which are largely wom out, inflexible and whose
manufacuring ia actually abandoned worldwide. There is no point, as In many neighbouring countries
of the form   Easten block and Soviet Union, to expect satisfactory continued operation and mainteance
of the networks, of which quality and coverage are insufficient and very poor and where demand for
improved and new services is rapidly growing to enable and support the current economic changes and
grwth.
1.2          Conf_Ited with the problems of both  mainaining  current operations and
modernizie gepding the networks, BCPT jointly with ISRT already have adopted, in 1990,
modernization and development strategies similar to those of other Eastern European countries, which
would maximize the benefits of digita technology, relieve the bottlenecks of national and international
seices, promote reliable communications for the business community and iniiate modernization of the
entwe infrastructure - sia   ly the  siutonal, organizational and managerial issues of the sector
would be addressed and appropriat reorms and restucturing of the sector would be undertaken. In order
to prepare and further elaborate these strategies: 0) a phased Telecommunications Investmnent plan was
prepaed and finalized in mid 1992 with the assistance of international consultants Arthur D.
LittlelNepostel), and (ii) the suitable measues and plan of acdon for sector reform and restrucaring were
prepared and elaborated wfith the assistance of two groups of specialized consultants (Touche Ross, and
XPMG). The related studies and prqeaty wors were financed under the PHARE program of the
EEC.
MennInves l22aImn (120497
2.1          The progm cosists of the procurement, supply and installation of a digital overlay
network (DON) consisting of new high-capacity optical fibre routes, digital microwave links using the
existig ifrructure for the long distmce transmission of TV programs, the dual routing security on
major axis of the OF cable systems and the connection of large regional secondary transit centers outside
the cable routes, three digital main tunk transit centers, twenty-one digital truck combined tunk/local
exchanges and three large local exchanges with remote subscrber units. Local exchanges capacities for
123 500 new digital line uni will be provided in these exchanges for business and high taffic users
purposes which would be directy and selectively connected to the DON. Truck capacities will be
expanded by up to 70,000 additiona  digit trunk circui to route traffic of these new and existing
subso  between the 27 main district centers. The DON will be linked at the higher level through a
nw digi  international gateway to a new INTELSAT Standard A satellite earth station and to the
terrestrial European digital routes to be Implemented in the framework of the EUROTELDEV project.
At the lower level the DON would be linked through A/D converters to the exisdng analogue transit
exchanges and to specific heavy traffic local exchanges. At same time, BTC would istall additional local



- 37 -
Ane  2
Pagp 2 of 3
loops for about 60,000 new users and make the required line redistributions In the existing local networks
to enable the connecton, where needed, of new high traffic users either directly to the new digital
exchanges or from distant exchanges or locations through A/D converters or distant digital lines units
(DLU). For the implemenation of this first phase, due to the highly sophisticated nature of the equipment
and systems to be used, the contribution of the domestic manufacturing industry will probably be minimal
so that all equipment and services wilt be imported.
2.2           siept. The main components of the DON are:
(a)    Tbree digital main trunk transit exchanges (two in Sofia and one in Plovdiv) and twenty-
five digital unk transitor combined main trunk/local exchanges in other major cities, the
27 digital transit secondary centers will have together an installed capacity totalling up
to '0,000 digital trun;
(b)    Three digital local exchanges (two in Sofia and one in Plovdiv) with 30 remote subscriber
units (RSU) which, with the local capacity of the twenty-five trunk transitor combined
transit/local exchanges, makes a total additional installed capacity of up to 123 500 line
units of digital switching equipment, mainly planned for business lines with high traffic
average per line;
(c)    Optical fiber cables for the Sofia merpolitan junction network and subscriber local cable
networks for 60,000 new subscribers in locations where needed and to enable needed
redistribution of existing local loops and connection of distant new users;
(d)    An inernational transit exchange in Sofia with 3000 trunks;
(e)    An INTELSAT standard-A satellite eath station near Sofia, linked by microwave to the
new international transit exchange (see (g) below);
(t)    1,700 kms of buried optical fiber cables and associate multiplex for very high
transmission capacities national and international routes;
(g)    1,100 kms of digital microwave trunking links including: (a) very high capacity (2+1)
TV and telecom transmission links interconnecting main tetary and secondary center
between: (i) Sofia and the satellite earth station for international global services (3 hops)
and (ii) Sofia and Vdliko Tarnovo via Plovdiv and Stara Zagora (12 hops); and (b) 7 spur
routes regional secondary to national trunk centers between: (i) Sofia and Vidin, Pernik
and Kyustendil; (ii) Plovdiv - Smolian, and Haskovo - Kardzali; and (iii) one provincial
loop route linking Tamovo, Ruse and Silistra and Varna to Dobrich and Silistra;
Ob)    Tmission equipment, including optical regenerators, digital multiplex equipment, A/D
multiplex converters (ADM) for connecting the DON to the existing analogue network
in cities without an new digital transit switches, in particular at 5 tertiary and at 22
secondary exchange locations (14 of which are on the OF cable routes and 8 are linked
by microwave) and at about 30 primary exchange locations reached by of cable or
microwave;
(u)    Digital Line Units (DLUs) for connecting business subscribers in large cities to a distant
local swkch; and



- 38 -                                e
Page 3 of 3
O)    Netork management systems for: (a) Tnmission management center fbr cable and
microwave systems and (b) Operaion and clntennce and traffic Measurement Centers,
in Sofa
2.3          DON Coverage and Capacity. The 123,000 additional line units direcdy connected to
the DON will carry most of the heavy business long distance and all intational traffic through the DON
with a high quality service; consequenty, it will unload the exisng analogue long distance and district
networks, increasing the STD capability available to other users and reducing congestion on the analogue
network for those without access to the digital. Furthermore, the DON will be interconnected to the
analogue networks to ensure fill connectivity between all Bulgarian subscribes and also to optimi the
use of the available long distance and intenaonal facilities. Thus, the Project will provide digital
services to the majority of Bulgara's business community and over 70% of the subscnrbers wil have
access to the digital network. Quality and overal efficiency of the services will imprve. Long distace
transmission includes an East-West link (part of CEFOS') and a figure of eight optical fiber network.
Digital microwave links are used to overcome the difficult terrain posed by the Balkan mountain range
and to provide redundancy on the most heavily used routes, e.g. Sofia to Plovdiv and least cost access
to the large centers outside the OF cables routs International links are improved by the new earth
station, which will cover links to the Americas, Europe and Africa, optical fiber routes to Belgrade,
Istanbul and Bucharest, and microwave routes to Greece and Romania. This will enable adequate routing
as currently planned at regional level, of both gtowing terminal traffic in Bulgaria and transit witiin the
Region and from more distant countries such as Ukraine having to reach the mediterranean and Black sea
submarine cable and the Turkish/Middle East land based systems.
1/ The Central European Fibre Optic System (CEFOS) consortium comprises US
Vest as manager and the PTTs of Bulgaria, CSFR, Hungary, Poland, Turkey,
Yugoslavia and Israel. The project is part of the EUROTELDEV plan outlined
under ITU's auspices.



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
oI"r1*
Butrimn Teteemunicetions toWny
Teleconleations Project
Project Coat Estlstos
l--in La  Ntlion..--       ... n US Millionr--.    P ret
Localt Fre.   Total       Local aroro.   Totat  Foeign
*---~~ E--x-- -*v*vlchang
1. Switching Equpment :
Intl.Cateway Exchane                24      39      62        0.9    1.5    2.5          62
Trnk* & Locat Exchanges            960    12?   2267         3.8   50.9   89.6           S7
8ub-Total      1004   1326   230          39.7   52.4   92.1          s?
2. Tramisfsifon System :
Satellite Earth Statfin             30      S6     116        1.2    3.4      4.6        74
Optical Fiber Coble                29?    n32    1029        11.7   28.9   40.?          71
Nfcroeeve System                   176    555      72         7.0   22.0   28.9          76
ab-Totatl       503   1375    167         19.9   54.3   74.2          73
3. Local Networks :
New Lotel/Juwction Lines           131    131      21         5.2    5.2   10.3          50
Repltacment Lnes                    47    295       61       21.6   11.6   33.3          35
$Ub-Totatl      67      45    1103        26.8   16.8   43.6          39
4. Network Nqnt.System s
Ntwork  _Nagement                   74      42     137        2.9    2.5    5.4          46
Neasurlng nstrtunts                  6      27      33        0.2     1.1    1.3         82
SubTet t         60      89     149        3.2    3.5    6.7          53
S. Ngmt.Informatfon System s:
Design Mhass                         9      21      31        0.4    0.8      1.2        69
installatton                        94    212    307          3.7    8.4   12.1          69
k.-Tot.l        104    234    337          4.1    9.2      3.3        69
6. Technical Assistance                 78    157    234          3.1    6.2    9.3          67
.....  .....       .      . .....  ........ .....     .................. .... ..........
Totat Base Costs /                 2446   360      6          96.7  142.4  23.1           60
Physcfal Contingenifes              245    n6o    405          9.7   14.2   23.9          60
Price Contingenies                 1764   2206   3970         10.2   12.3   22.5          55
Cus.ons Duties b/                   401       0    401        15.6    0.0   15.8           0
.....  ....... .... ....... ....... ....... ..............
Total Project Costs                4856   6171   11026       132.4   19.0   301.4         56
IDC - Sk Loan c                             241    241                 6.2    6.2        100
- Othoc/                               124s   12U4                3.2   32.2         100
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... ......... ..... ....... .
Total Financing Required           4CU6   7466   18 01       132.4  207.4  539.6          61
a/ a In Januiry 1993 prices.
b/ : At 15.5X of iqmrted quipmnt.
c   t interest During Constructien CISC) on foreign loo  to be ftnancd from
local resources.



BULGARIA
Bulgaian TelecommuncatIons Company
Tdecomhns Prect
ntomms Affnme_s
-  -Time Table-
Description of Project Element       Total   Foreign   Finaing    P     emet  No. of          Bid      ConrAcs   Contracts
Cost*    Cost*   Source/s       Method      Packages  lIsrance   Award        Compledion
1. SwitchinEa
1. International G sewy                     3.2       1.8     EIB          ICB a/        1         8/92        4/93        6/94
1.2 Trnk and Local Exchanges              112.9      60.4     EI1          ICB           2         8/92        5/93        9197
2.~~~~~~~~ 
2. Transission FiM
2.1 Sadlite Earth Station                   5.8       4.0    EBRD           ICB 1        1         8/92       4/93         6194
2.2 OF Cable Systems                       51.3      34.3    EBRD           ICB          2          8/92       5193        12/96
2.3 Microwave Links                        36.1      16.1   WBIBTC          ICB          2          6/93        1/94       12/97
3~~~~~~_.
3. Loa Neoorp
3.1 New Subscr. Line/unctions              13.0       6.2      EIB          ICB          1          8/92       5/93        12197
3.2 Redlstrib.iReplacem.of Existing Lines  42.0      23.7      EIE         ICB           2          6f93       12J93       12197
4. NSwok M_ _
4.1 Cable and Sw   i Systems                6.8       2.9      EIB          ICB          2          8/92       5193         6197
4.0 Support to Microwave Operat.& Maint     1.6       1.3      WB        ICB & LID       3          6/93       3/94         6/97
5.1 Desgn Phase                             1.6       1.0      WB       WBlCons.h/       1          5/93       7/93        12194
5.2 Hardwar     ware  Implementation       15.3      10.A      WB           ICB          1         12/93       6/94         6J97
6. Te           Ass913                                                                                                       6
6.1 Financial Audit of BTC                  1.7       1.5      WB       WB/Cons.k/       1          6/93       12/93       6/97
6.2 Corporate Development of BTC sl        10.0       5.8   EIB/WB    WB/Cons.h/         2
' (USS milion), Costs include contingencies.
a/ ICB under EIB and EBRD finmcing took place according to WB procurement procedure.
hi According to WB guidelines for selection of consultats (Agust 1981).
/ rTmetable to be detmined by May 31, 1993.                                                                                           0



BULGARIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Item                                   1992    I1993        1994      1995      1996      1997
A. SWITCHING EQUIPMENT
1.  New exchange (Int'l. & DON switches)                     1    Xe-    m  -   _    -             _   _ n
2.  Extension/replacement                               j . _                                 -    - _       -
B. TRA"SMISSION EQUIPMENT
1.  Optical fiber system                                    0I--             _                 , _
2.  Nicrowave links                                                   a '-x           -     _      _    _    -   -
3.  A/D converters. trans. terminals                         0         X      _     
C. LOCAL NETirAS
1.  Equipment and installation                               a_
2.  Redistribution/replacement (existing loops)                                                                   -
0.  MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT/SYSTEMS
1.  Network management                                       0=- '_      _        r _                  ___
2. Tedhnical operationh/aintenance                 0=                       J      - *            - _
E. TMGEM     INFORMATION SYSTEMS
1.  Oesign/development phase
2.  Hardware/software supply and installation                              a  _                     .   -   i
F.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Institutional/organizational                                         - _    _                       -    -    -
2.  Project preparation/planning                                         -    - _    _    _             -
3.  Project  tploementation supervision O
4.  Regulatory set up (to CPT)                                -                         -                         -
Lend:  Phase of Ioplementation:              o      -        Tender issuance/contract negotiations for tied procurement                  !1L
x     -        Signing of contract                                                          0
-       Start-up of delivery/installation services
I     -        Provisfonal acceptance
|  -    Completion
Ongoing/operation or services



Page 1 of 2
BUUQ~
BDulgarian   eouwactou C:opay
Tdcmcatlns Project
-~USS miin-
Decembe31, 1993                   1.7           1.7
June 30, 1994                    4.4            6.1
December 31, 1994                4.4           10.S
Jun 30, 199S                     5.6           16.1
December 31, 199S                S.6           21.7
June 30, 1996                    3.0           24.7
EX21
December 31, 1996                3.0           27.7
Jtun 30, 1997                     1.2          28.9
EX2
December 31, 1997                0.6           29.5
June 30, 1998                    0.5           30.0
dmm    Ploiect vs Siad
Cumulative D'isbursement Profile
ao~~~~~~~~~~= no   o  no
30                           2-.9              t       so
26t                  24.7
24 -
22 
20 
Is 
14 
122.
to
4~~~~~.
2
1994  5 5I       199     20
o +..      4bsW



- 43 -
Antnex 4
Page 2 of 2
BULQAG
Bulgaian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunications Project
D2isbursemffl CaXoxjes
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed In          Expenditures
cateor                    }olar Eilvalem)        to be Pinancd
(1) Goods and services under     15,200,000          85%
turnkey contract
(2) Other goods (mcluding        10,500,000          100% of foreign expendiures,
sociated services)                                100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3) Consultants' services         1,500,000          100%
(4) Unallocated                   2,800,000
TOTAL                     30.000.



Bulgarian Telecommunication Project
Organisation Chart
Dood of Diretos
..ocutivp .oerd ..                                           a      I
-            .                                                                                         ~~.
'k T,                                                                                                               WN hwummr, - 1 
Poun                             I  Exe Bd 
Hue t            D     nJonion                F    Ena l   nce               St;t egi  k          D es alese negok P &              la Netn
R.esourmes                Technolog            ;a .een                           Planiandi                           e.                   E      
&a Ttaing Pis                                                                                            PrdnmTa                    DON PIoplea
ersone                    .Dudgelg                                               stnad and               Deelpmn
M geen                  Da                                                       F                       Se     Ql
Operilons               Treasury                        mdi ~                                              Spedal ProTts                    l
Pay & Reanrd             egona                                                        Venh               &  dvertsin
Proutiiy&               Coprtion                                                 1ostc
Performance                                                                                              Tariff Polick
Resions (27 - 11)              latatlonal Trasmisi_
Tochaw                ~~~~~~Nationa Transission
Teunial                        Naion  infrasructu
Support    ~ ~ ~ ~ tw~aijcna Exchange
Fnppni                          echakal Support
Support                        Fhancal Support
change Madgemet 
DbPusw
: -  i . ! - - - _ __ _ _,~~~~~~~~Dwaftif



- 45 -
Page 1 of 2
BUlLGARIA
EgCTENCHAL ASSISTANCE MATI
1.           ob order to delineate an action plan for implementing the Governmens stat    as it
applies to policy and insdtiona reform, Bulgarian Authorides had grouped the Techical Assistnce
(TA) task under four maor work plans as shown in Table 1. The TA assignments were reviewed by
the Dak including TORs and consultant qualifications. 'he TORs are maiained in the Project PUe.
Table 1: Com      d TA for Polioyand nstitutionalRfrm
Growp                  Scope of ork                     Consultant         Implemttion
I ________  __________________________________                                  aponRp sibiU ty
I      Sestor loucy. ROe ulatory Issues,         am tHanagmt                  CPT
frivtisoet  and Divetitute Options       Consultin_
II      Orauiistion nd Mangemto of BTC            a    Manaement              sic
__ ma Reawas Devlopmt                     Consulting
III     Plaiel Reviw, Aeoowtig and Planial    Touche-Ross                    CPT/BTc
Mag,met. Tariff Study, Workshop on
_Finaial Issul s                                        _____
TV      3lansmaset  formation System  MIS) and    am Management        B       TC
C-mpstriaation                           Consulting
The above conuting assignments have been financed by EC-PHARE and have been substantially
completed. Ihe addional techical assistance requed to assist with the implementation of corporate
deveopment program of BTC is summarized in the attached Matix.



Subject                   Future TA Requ.resemts              Type of TA l/          Source of                 Rerek
(Briet Scope of Work)                              |   Financing
Change Management          Senior Management Development                   tEC/PU                             Based on Group 2  BITC
Advice to the Executive Board            Assigument                                OrganLsation & Management
Strategic/Corporate        Strategic Business Modelling
Planning                   Forecasting under Macroeconcmic
Constraints                                    TBD                   MB
Tariffs Analyses/Setting
MFnagement Information Systems
Training
Project Management         Project Coordination Support to                                      EIB
(DON, etc.)                Project Managers                               TBD
S upervising/Acceptance Testing
Operational                Operation and Maintenance                Vendor Provided         EIE1BRD/WB        Included in Turnkey
Mabagement                 of new Network                                                                     Contracts
Personnel Management       Detailed Job Description
for BTC Staff
Productivity MFasurerent                       TBD                  WB
Training Plan Preparation
Support to the VP
Management Training Program
Financial Management       Financial Modelling Capabilities                                                   Possible Extension to
Budgeting & Budget Monitoring                                                     Ogoing Touch. Ross
Treasury/Foreign Excabnge                      TBD            EC/PEARE/Ws         Contract under
MaFnagement                                                                        group 3: Fin. & Account.
Financial and Cost Accounting                                                     Management
Systems
Training_
Auditing                   External - Procedures                    Auditing                     WB
Internal - Principles/Procedures         Assignment                                 _ ______
Marketing & Business       Quality of Service Indicators
Development                Irformation Collecting Methodology             TBD                   WB
Service Department Marketing
Public Relations Principles                                                                                            OQ __
ai Consultant, twinning arrangement, vendor provided, etc.
TBD - To be decided.                                                                                                                             eh
t.3



- 47 -
Annex 7
Bulgaria
Bulqarian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunications Project
Operating Performance, 1989-92
Est.
In Current Leva Million         1989     1990     1991     1992
operating Revenue                683      754     2133     2796
Operating Costs :
Staff                          103      141      498      969
Material and Maintenance        42      101      335       873
Depreciation                   105      114      101      489
Total Operating Costs            250      356      934     2331
Operating Income                 434      398     1199      465
Interest Expenses                                  183      178
Postal Subsidy                   106      144      289       375
F.Ex.Losses                                        353      129
Taxes                            308      262      306         0
Net Income                        20       -8       68     -217
Number of DELs ('000)           2093     2211     2219     2279
Year Averaqe                    2035     2152     2215     2249
No.of Staff                    26679    25819    25900    25836
Revenue/DEL (Leva)               336      351      963      1243
operating Cost/DEL (Lava)        123      165      422     1036
operating Profit/DEL (Leva)      213      185      541      207
Staff Cost/Line (Leva)            50       66      225      431
No.of DEL/employee                76       83       86       87
operating Ratio (%)             36.5%    47.2%    43.8%    83.4%
Return on Assets (%)            12.4%    13.6%    18.4%     7.1%
In 1992 Lava Million
=___________________
Operating Revenue               6215     5279     3773     2796
operating Costs :
Staff                          934      989      881      969
Material and Maintenance       384      708      593      873
Depreciation                   953      794      179      489
Total Operating Costs           2272     2491     1652     2331
Operating Income                3944     2787     2121      465
Interest Expenses                  0        0      324      178
Postal Subsidy                   964     1008      511       375
Taxes                           2802     1834      541         0
Net Income                       177      -54      120     -217
Revenue/DEL (Leva)              3055     2453     1704      1243
operating Cost/DEL (Leva)       1116     1158      746      1036
Operating Profit/DEL (Leva)     1938     1295      958      207
Staff Cost/Line (Leva)           459      460      398      431
No.of DEL/employee                76       83       86       87
----------------------------------------------------------------
Inflation (%)                    9.0%    30.0%   295.6%    76.9%
Deflator (1992-1)                9.1      7.0      1.8       1.0
Leva/USD Exch.Rate              0.83     2.32    18.00    23.30



- 48 -
Annex 8
Bulgaria
Bulgarian Tetecummxiications company
Telecommunicationa ProJect
Internationat Traffic and Settlements Liability
1990                                 1991
....___..__ ...........................  ...........................
met                                  met
Outgoing   Oebit  Liability          Outgoing   Debit  Liabitity
Balance   Share                      Balance   Share
(an min) (UR/min) (SDR on)           (in min) (5DR/min) (SOR mm)
Direct Traffic to Top Ton
Destination Countrfes
Austria                        0.857    0.188    0.161               0.291    0.188    0.055
cIs                            -0.23    0.255         0              0.471    0.255      0.12
France                         0.783    0.243      0.19              1.314    0.243    0.319
Germany                        3.565    0.207    0.738               2.641    0.207    0.547
Greece                         1.994    0.176    0.351               1.849    0.176    0.325
Italy                          0.244    0.229    0.056              0.267    0.229    0.061
Switzerland                    0.258    0.204    0.053               0.422    0.204    0.086
Turkey                        10.733    0.193    2.072               7.842    0.193    1.514
United Kingdom                 0.543    0.228    0.124                1.14    0.228      0.26
Yugoslavia                     1.925    0.176         0              2.252    0.176         0
Total                         20.672              3.745             18.489              3.287
All other Traffic
(Direct and Transit)          13.218     0.21    2.774               10.49     0.21    2.202
Totat                          33.89              6.519             28.979              5.489
..........................................................................................
Sources: ISRT, BTC Internmtional Settlements Department
Note: Liabitity to Yugoslavia Is zero by agreement.



- .49 -
mulgeria                            Annex 9
Sulgarisn Toleammcations Corqmn                   Page 1 of 2
Te l.cmmicatt.n Project
InvsXnts awd Fircing Pln 1993-97
Current Lava Nittton.1993....19.......-.1995 .........
--------------------               Loat forelgn    Total   Loal Forign    Total   Local Foreign    Total
InVstments a                       .....   ......    .....   .--         -       .....    .....   ......    ....
Proposed Project                   927     1246      2175     1430     1989     3419      1194     1576    27m
Suequent Digitalization
Short-Team Projects                121       162      283
tnterest During Con.trn. 1/         S7                S7       191               191      345                34S
Total RtquirteintsS 105                         08     2513     1621     1989     3611      1539     1576     3116
.....        ......                               .....    .....  . .. ..... ...........  .................. ..........
Finwancng :
Gross ICe                         1706               1706     2910              2910     3967               3967
Less: Debt-Service V/              S                  S7      210               210      365                365
Working Capital              18S                165      410               410      1193              1193
Dividends                    190                190      439               439      692                692
Not Ica                           1275               1275     1851              1851      1718              1718
Net ICG Applied 3/              1105       170     1275     1621      229     18S1      1539      179    1t18
Foreign Borrouino - E18                       634       634               783      783                626      626
-  3ER                      388      388               656       66                339      339
*V orld 8rk                  53       53               320       320               432      432
* *3eher 4/                 162      162                 0         0                 0        0
Localt  rrofiag                        0                  0        0                 0         0                 0
Total financing                      1105     1408     2513     1621     1989    3611       1539     1576     3116
. ...... .............. ......... .......    .....  .......    ..... .......    ..... .......    .....
Current USS  ftllIon
Investments s
Prpsx"ed Project                  29.2    39.2       48.3     39.0    54.2    93.2        31.0    40.9      72.0
Subsequent Digitalization
Short-Term Projects                3.8      S.1       8.9
Interest Ouring Constmn. I/        1.8      0.0       1.8      5.2      0.0      5.2      9.0       0.0      9.0
Total Requirements                  34.7    44.3       79.0     U4.2    54.2    98.4    40.0         40.9     80.9
.....    ..... .   .....   ..... .. .....              ..... .. .....    ....... .. ........... .. ........... ..
financing :
Gross Ica                         S3.7                3.7     79.3              79.3    103.0              103.0
Less : Debt-Service 2/             1.8                1.8      5.7               5.7      9.5                9.5
Working Capital             5.6                5.8     11.2              11.2     31.0               31.0
Dividf eds                  6.0                6.0     12.0              12.0      18.0              18.0
net ICa                           40.1               40.1     S0.4              50.4      44.6              44.6
Not ICG Applied 31              34.7      5.3      40.1     44.2      6.3     50.4      40.0      4.6     44.6
Foreign Borrouing - EIt                       20.0     20.0              21.3     21.3               16.3     16.3
* EJR                      12.2     12.2               17.9     17.9               8.8      8.8
- Vorld BEnw                1.7      1.7               8.7       8.7              11.2      11.2
- Other 4/                  5.1      5.1                0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0
Local lorroifng                      0.0                0.0      0.0               0.0       0.0               0.0
.....    ..... .   .... . .... .....  ..... .. .....   ....... .. ........... .. ........... ..
Total financOng                     34.7    44.3       79.0     44.2     54.2     98.4      40.0     40.9     80.9
.....    ..... .    .....           .....  . . .....   .......... .............. ... ..................
............................ ............................................................  ,  __..........
I/ s tOC on foreign lowns to be fInanced from local currrncy.
2/ a Total debt-service Including tOC.
3/ : 3TC Financing of mlero..w link to Greece and local network rehabilitation.
4/   Ntherlads PTT (1552.4 million),  spilper credits (US2.6 million)  nd iundantified loans (US$34 mdllion).



-  50 -
milgaria                               Annex 9
Buluarian Telcaumiostfms Ceoey                        Page 2 of 2
Totecmicatfa  Project
investnents and Financif Plan 1993-9?
Current Lova Nitllin                  -.---   1996----- ----      --            ...1997 -   -        M1993-97 Total---
*       -        -- ------Ltocal ForefSn    Total    Loca  Foeign    Ttut    Local  Forfein    Totalt
lestnts : *---...... .   ..... ........... ...... ....  ..... ............
Proposed Project                     700      769      1469      640       590     1194     4856.    6170    11026
Subsequet Digftal1hatfon                                        1043      1326     239      1043      1326     2369
Short-Term Projects                                                                          121       16a      23
Interest Ouring Costrn. 1f          437                437       535                53      1565         0     1565
...... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Total Requirements                    1137      769      1906     2182      1916     4098     7585      7658    15243
.....         ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     .............. ....... .............
Financing *
Gross ICG                          4840               4840      5760               5760    19184         0    19184
Less: Debt-Service 21               484                484      1318               1318     2434         0     2434
working Capitat              1913               1913       931               931      4633         0     4633
Ofvidends                    1141               1141      1171              117       3631         0     3631
let ICa                             1303              1303      2339               2339     8486         0     8486
lot ICG Applied 31               1137       166     1303      2182      157      2339     7585       901     8486
Foeign  orrowing - 818                          362      362                324       324         0     2731     2731
- EBRO                        12        12                 8         8        0      1403     1403
- World Bank                 229      229                 100      100        0      1135     1135
- Other 4/                     0        0               1326      1326        0      1488     1489
Local Borrowing                          0                  0        0                  0         0        0         0
.. ......  .....  ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     ----- .. ..... .. .........
Totat financng                        1137      769      1906     2182      1916     4098     7585      7658    15243
3 ................. .. ........... .. ......    .....    .....  . ......  .....
Current USS llintton
Invstments s
Proposd Project                     17.9     19.7     37.7      15.5      15.1     30.6    132.4    169.0    301.4
Subsequent Digitatization                                       26.7     34.0      60.7     26.7      34.0     60.7
Short-Toe Projects                                                                           3.8       5.1      8.9
tnterest During Coren. 1/          11.2       0.0     11.2      13.7      0.0      13.7     40.9       0.0     40.9
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Total Requiremnts                     29.2     19.7     48.9      56.0     49.1    105.1    203.8    208.1    411.9
...... ...... ..... ..... ..... ----- .....
Financing :
Gross ICG                          124.1              124.1    147.7              147.7    507.6       0.0    507.8
Le"s : Debt-Sevice 2/               12.4               12.4     33.8               33.8     63.2       0.0     63.2
Vorking Capitat             49.1               49.1      23.9              23.9    120.9        0.0    120.9
fvefd                       29.2               29.2      30.0              30.0      95.1       0.0     95.1
Iet ICa                             33.4              33.4      60.0               60.0    228.3       0.0    228.3
Net ICC Applied 3/               29.2       4.3     33.4      56.0      4.0      60.0    203.8      24.5    228.3
Foeign Borrowing - E1l                          9.3       9.3                8.3      8.3       0.0     75.1      75.2
- FMND                       0.3       0.3                0.2      0.2      0.0      39.4     39.4
- World Bank                 5.9       5.9                2.6      2.6       0.0     30.0     30.11
- Other 4/                   0.0       0.0              34.0      34.0      0.0      39.1     39.0
Local Borrowing                        0.0                0.0      0.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
........_ . ..... ....... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ...... .. .. .. .
Totat Fiancing                        29.2     19.7      48.9     56.0      49.1    105.1    203.8    208.1    411.9
.....    ...... . ......    .....    ....... ..... .... ..  .. .._..
................ .............................................._.   ..................
If : 1OC on foreign toans to be financed from local curraeny.
2/ s Total debt-seioe including t0C.
3/ s sTC Finaning of mifrosve ltnk to Gree   ad  tocal network rabif1lftation.
4/ s Uetherlun  PTT (1S32.4 mtiltlon), supptfer credits (U1S32.6 mlidtton) end udentffled loan  (t3U34 miltion).



- 51 -
Anne 1
Page I of 2
BULGARIA
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunlcaons Project
Tariff Strcture and Trends
1.           Prior to 1989, telecommunications tariffs remained costant ecept for 1nternational tarif
which were only revised in 1982 and 1985. The tariff stueture Is sim3lar to that In many countries, and
involves charges for connectton, annual subscription and usage. The usage charges are based on local,
long-distance and international calls. Local call charges are not timed. Charges for long-distance and
international calls are timed and based on distance bands categorized int zones. Long-distance zones
include - Nodal (5 pulses/min); up to 60 km (7.5 pulses/min); 61 km to 160 km (10 pulses/min); and
> 161 km (12 pulses/min), and the international zones Include - neghboring countries (33.3 pulsemin);
Eurpean coutries (40 pulses/min); and others (50 pulses/min). Furtiher, night time (10p.m. to 6 am.)
for long-distance and inteational calls are charged at half the day time rate. Summary of tariff strucure
and tariff levels is included in Attachment to this Annex.
2.           Beginning 1989, differenti usage charges for residential and business acstmers were
first introduced by a higher pulse rate for business customers, while the access chges (connection and
rental) condnued to be same untl 1991. From May 1991, both access and usage hrges have been
different for residential and business customers and residenti traffic over 750 pulses/quarter Is charged
at business rates. In May 1992, annua subscription charges were linked to the capacity of the local
telephone network at increasing charges with capacity, Intended In part to reduce the coigestion in the
network from low value residenal  ric, especially local calls.
3.           BTC's tariffs, though similar in structure with many other countries, are very low.
BTC's attempts to restructure Its tadffs have essentially prevented a potetia financial distess for the
company. BTC's intentions to reduce congestion, maximize network utiization, improve Intational
settiements position, etc., are all in the right direction. The restructing of tariffs in 1991 and 1992
failed to reduce network congestion but favorably altered the interational traffic. Ihis was because the
access charges continued to reflect predominatly the social objectives rather the opportunity cost of lost
traffic/revenues from an added subscriber. In addition, the average nmnber of charged pulses per
residential line was only about 640/quarter in 1991 and was not expected to be higher in 1992, and
therefore, the limit of 750 pulses/quarter did not contrbute to loweig congesdon as was intended. With
regard to usage charges, an analysis of service proftability of local, long-dtamce and international
services in 1991 indicated that both long-distance and internadonal services were profitable but the local
call service was not'. Ihe service costs are based on book-value depreciation. However, if replacement
cost basis was used for this analysis, all but the international services are loss making. Furdher, if the
settlement liability were accounted, even the int onal services would be loss makig. Therefre,
further restructuring of tariffs are needed to achieve both the setra and corporate objectives.
I/ Based ca Touche-loas analysis.



- 52 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
New dff Ej
4.            Based on international trends, the new digital technologies which have high capacities of
iformation transmission and enable provision of other services with minimal equipment addition, will
cause a decrease in unit operating costs. herefore, the domestic and, especially, inteational telephone
tauiffs need to be based on mechanisms that will restrucure the revenme base, to derive a larger portion
of the BTC's income from access charges compared to present levels, and revising the usage charges to
attract high value traffic, e.g, business subscribers and reduce congetion in the network. The BTC's
tariffs would be restructured by: shifting away from usage charges towards access charges; increasing
residential tariffs at a higher rate than those for business for local calls; and intoducing more time bands
for long distance and international traffic with a view to: (a) maximize the use of the network for
profitable services; (b) generate sufficient revenues from operations to finance a reasonable portion of
its investments; and (c) control the growth in international settlement liabilties. CPTIBTC are being
prtesely helped by consultants (ouche Ross) to develop a tariff policy along the above lines. The tariff
policy would recommend measures to take into account the prevailing limitations such as metering system
(para 5.05), reliable cost inormation (para 5.01), etc., in the medium-term as well as to provide the basis
for subsequent rebalancing and restructuring of tariffs in line with iternational trends. A new tariff
policy, including a regulatory framework sisfactory to the Bank, would be implemented under the
Project.
Tariff Proposals for 1993
S.           The tariff restructring proposals for 1993 to be effective May 1, 1993, include
introduction of an additional time-of-day band, reducing the number of zones for long-distance traffic
from four to three and increasing the time between pulses (hence, reduce number of pulses per minute)
for automatic calls. Such restructing is aimed at rebalancing the tariffs to induce redistribution of
Utaffic to reduce congestion and maximize the use of network. Further, the largest increase in tariff to
local calls and substant  increases to connection and subscription charges is in line with the underlying
principles of the new tariff policy to be adopted.



- 53  -                      ~~~~Annex 10
BULGARIA                                  Attachment
Bulgaria Telecommunications Company                           Page 1
Telecommunicadons Project
BTC anilttrcuAcalm84
iro Oct        iror lob        Prom May
198s           1891            1992
Connection Charges
ResidenttaL                                        120.00          150.00          600.00
Business A/                                        120.00          600.00        2000.00
Arinual Standlng Charges
Residential
- Direct                                            16.00           16.00              /I
- Party Lines                                       12.80           12.80             hI
Business                                             16.00          20.00             ki
Charge per Pulse
Residential                                          0.03         0.10 if        0.15 g/
Business                                             0.05            0.20           0.30
Notes
- The category 'business subscribers' also inlaudes Junction lines to/
from PUJ and PAMs and coinboxes.
k/ Charges are dependent on the capacity (number of subscribers) of
the local telephone network, as follows:
Cbarges/Custoners  up to 1000 up to 1000 up to 100000 over 100000
Residential
- Direct                24.00      36.00       48.00        60.00
- larty Lines          18.00       24.00       36.00        48.00
Busines                120.00     180.00      240.00       300.00
S/ Traffic ovar 750 pulses per quarter is charged as buslnes.
Zone                                                Time between                 Number of Cbagd
charging pIses               pulses per ainute
in Seconds
I Witbin the nodaL exchge8                            12.0                           5.0
12 WLthin the main (district)
exchange up to 60 km
distance                                            8.0                            7.5
II LD Traffic from 81 to 1S#km                         6.0                           10.0
V LD Traffic over 161 km                               5.0                           12.0
notes
During the hous of 10.00 pm to 6.00 a pulses are charged at half the sioal rate.
Zone                                                STme betwen                  Number of Charged
hearing pulses               pulse  per minut
In seconds
I Neighborin  countries                               1.8                           3..
U Othet Europe= countries                              1.5                            40
SII Non-Europen countries                               1.2                            so
Durin  the hours of 10.00 pm to 6.00 a pulss are charged at half the moel rate.
Restrusturing propoals for 293 ilude an additional tin  of day band end inttutlon of tehmd rae  for
both Song-distance and interatinal cealls.



- 54 -                                            ADmJ 1
Aftadhment
Page 2
BULGARIA
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunications Project
BTC Proposed Tariffs from Mu 1. 1993
I- --- a a  -              _               ~~~~~~Rasidentale            __i
Connetion Charges                                         1000                          3500
Renal Chariton V
Up to 1.000                                               60                           300
Up to 10,000                                              S0                           460
Up to 100.000                                            120                           660
Over  100.000                                            150                           840
chars nar Pulse k/                                        0.50                          1.00
Low-Distance Calls g/                            Pulses/Min -    Chanes         pulDsi           COares
Zoe I - Nodal exchange: Peak                     5              2.50            5              5.00
Standard                4              2.00           4               4.00
Off-Peak                3              1.50           3               3.00
ZoneI1 - up to o ka:   Peak                     6               3.00           6              6.00
Standard                5              2.50            5              5.00
Off-Peak                4              2.00            4              4.00
Zone III - over 60 ka:  Peak                     7               3.50           7              7.00
Standard                6              3.00           6               6.00
Off-Peak                5              2.50            5              5.00
lMms&1mti gl a AA A/
Zone I - Neighboring Countries: Peak            3C              15.00          30             30.00
Off-Peak        21             10.50          21              21.00
Zbo II - OthFt European:         Peak            40              20.00          *0             40.00
Off-peak        30             15.00          30              30.00
zon  III - Other countrie:      Peak            50              25.00          50             50.00
Off-Peak        50             25.00          50              50.00
j/ Charge" are dependent on the capacity (number of subscribers) of the local telephene nutwork.
h/ Local calls are charged at one pulse pr call.
Qf Peak:       9 m - non;   pm - 5 pm.
Standard: 7 n - 9 am noon - I pm; 5 pn - 9 p.
Off-Peak: 9 pa - 7 an. Includes all day for weekends and national holdays.
J  Peak:       7 an - 9 pm; Off-Peak: 9 pm - 7 an.



- 55 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 7
BULGARIA
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunications Project
Notes and AssumMion for Financial Prolections
1.    MacroeconomicAsumpions: Please see Page 3.
2.    Tra             Forecast for local, longdistance and international traffic made separately for
both residentW and business subscribers based on 1991 actual and 1992 estimates applying denmand
elasticities as below:
-     ~Resideotial    Buines
Price Elasticities:
Local Calls                  -0.2         -0.1
Long Distance                -0.3          0.2
International                -0.3         -0.2
Income Elasticities:                 0.5          0.2
Please see Annex 13 for detailed traffic forecasts including other assumptions such as call duration,
number of pulses charged per minute, etc.
3.                1              Rate per pulse for usage charges and subscription and connection
cbarges for fixed charges separately for residential and business subscribers based on published rates.
Average revenue per minute for long-distance and intnational calls based on number of pulses per
minute. Tariff increases from 1993 onwards linked to financial performance targets.
4.    Revenes: PSTN revenues based on traffic foreats and average revenues. Non-PSTN revenues
ihlude Telex, Gentex, Radio/TV, etc., and are assumed to grow at negative 3% real p.a after 1993 for
Telex and  entex and at 10% real for others.
S.    OpergWati  Costs: Real rates of growth p.a. from 1993 onwards are: (a) Salaries 10%; (b) Social
Insurance 40% of salaries; (c) Power 3%; (d) Materias 10%; and (e) Other expenses 5%.
6.    bematioua Net Qui almm : Based on forecasts of international net outgoing traffic estimated
assuming the 1992 ratio of outgoing to incoming traffic to prevail during the forecast period. The actal
average liabiliy per unit of net outgoing during 1991 (SDR and US$) increased prorata inteional
inflation has been used to detrmine US$ equivalent liability to foreign telephone administrations.
7.    Natiopl Cgm=gons Slam  Fund: BTC contribution at 4% of revenues as per law and
is fuily deductible for tax purpose. The fund is managed by CPIT.
8.    jg=  During Constuction: IrDC is capitalized in the WIP.
9.    Foreign gxhange Losses: Transaction losses fully expensed and translation losses capitalized
in tie WIP and asset base. Losses on outstanding amounts to foreign FPTs fully expensed.



- 56 -                    Annex 11
Page 2 of 7
10.   PosL  Subsidy: No subsidies from January 1994 onwards. ATe amount in 1993 is 25% of
operating profits or US$15.5 million equivalent, whichever is lower, as agreed by BTC with EIB, EBRD
and the Bank.
11.   Taxes: Based on operating income plus 50% of short-term interest as per law.
12.   Dividends: 50% of net income after loan principal payments.
13.   Fixed Asse: Both gross fixed assets and accumulated depreciation revalued at domestic inflation
rate beginning 1992. Assets were first revalued at end 1991 as per GOB decree and the New Accounting
Law. Net revaluation surplus taken Into equity.
14.   Dsprecatio: On straight line basis at 15.5 year operating life, equivalent to about 6.5% p.a.
on average gross revalued fixed assets in operation from 1992 onwards.
15.   AM       : Investments in WIP taken to asset base each year from 1993 onwards at 20% in fist
year, 30% each in second and third years, and balance in fifth year.
16.    nhas: Minimum balance at 1.5 months salaries.
17.   R.eceivales: Assumed at 2 months of billed sales from 1993 onwards.
18.   Ska: At 2% of average gross fixed assets in operation.
19.   Coital: 1990 amount maintained in the future.
20.   Foreign Loans: Revalued at year end exchange rate and translation losses capitalized in WIP and
asset base. EIB loan (ECU 70 million equivalent for 17 years including 5 year grace with no
commitment fee) and EBRD loan (ECU 32 million equivalent for 14 years including 5 year grace).
Please see page 3 for interest rates on all loans.
21.   Loca Lo: No long-term local loans assumed for financing the project.
22.   Accouts EU&e: 1.5 months of salaries and 2 months of other cash operating expenses.
23.     eig Telecom Am: 6 months of net liability from 1993. Accumulated debt up to end
1992 to be paid fully by 1995.



Butgaria
Butgarian Telecommuications Coq2wny
Telecomications ProJeet
1acrocOnoulc AsuMptions
1990    1991      1992     1996     1994     1995     1996     1997    1998      1999    2000
~~~~~....             ....  .    ..  .  ...  ....  .... . . ....   ....  . . ....    ........ .... ... ..... ............ ..
Domestic Inflatfon (X) (IBRD)         30   295.6    76.9    39.4    20.0    10.0           6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
Inflation N.ulttiptir;1992*1         7.0     1.77     1.00     1.39     1.67     1.84     1.95     2.07    2.19      2.32     2.6
Internat1enal Inflatlon (X)                            2.8      3.9      3.9      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8      3.8
Inftation Nulttplter;1992=1                              1     1.04     1.08     1.12     1.16     1.21     1.25     1.30     1.35
Lava/USC Exch.Rate - Average         2.3    18.0      23.3    31.8    36.7    38.5    39.0    39.5    40.0    40.8    41.7
End of Year Rate                     2.3    18.0    23.3    34.3    37.6    38.8    39.3    39.8    40.4    41.3    42.2
Lava Interest Rate - ST (4% real)                     80.9%    43.4%    24.0%    14.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%
Leva Interest Rate - 7 year (8% real)                 84.9%    47.4%    28.0%    18.0%    14.0%    14.0%    14.0%    14.0%    14.0%
EIB Interest Rate                                      8.5%    8.5%    8.5%    8.5%        8.5%    8.5%    8.5%    8.5%    8.5%
EBRD Interest Rate                                    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%
IBRD Interest Rate                                     8.2%     8.2%     8.2%     8.2%     8.2%     8.2%     8.2%     8.2X     8.2%
USC Interest Rate                                     10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%
Corporate Tax (X)                            40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%    40.0%
8muicipal Tax (X)                            10.0X    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%    10.0%
Irrigation Tax (2)                            2.0%     2.0%    2.0%    2.0%       2.0%    2.0%      2.0%     2.0%     2.0%     2.0%
Other Taxes (X) On Residential cnly          22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%    22.0%
National Com.Systems Fund(C  of Revenues)              4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0X     4.0%     4.0%
Customs Duties on Imports (X)                15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%    15.5%
GOP (Lava bn, current)                                 322      448      546      615      672      737      813      896      988
GDP (1992 Leva bn)                   454      350      322      322      326      334      345      357      371      386      401
GDP (USC bn, current)                                   14       14       15       16       17       19       20       22       23
GDP (1992 USD bn)                     19       15       14       14       14       14       15       15       16       17       17
GDP Real Growth (X) - Base Case   -11.8%   -22.9%    -8.1%      0.0X     1.5%     2.5%     3.0%     3.5%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%                 .
GDP - Low Case Scenario            -11.8%   -22.9%    -8.1%     0.0%     0.0%     1.5%     2.5X     3.0%     3.5%     4.0%     4.0%               P
Poputation (m)                      8.60     8.59     8.58     8.58     8.58     8.57     8.57     8.57    8.57      8.57     8.57                w
GDP/Population (1992 S)             2265     1748     1608     1608     1632    1675      1725     1786    1857      1931     2009                °  j
GDP/Population (Current S)                            1608    1643    1692       1853     1998    2164    2346       2533     2734
Population In Workforce (X)         0.45     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.42     0.43     0.43     0.43     0.44
Dwellings (a)                       2.87    2.86      2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86     2.86
People per Dwelling                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
.................. ....................................... w............. ............................ ..... ......... ... .... .. ......... .............. ............ . ........ ........... ..



Bulgarfa
Bulgarion Tltcoeieiations Cpwny
felccamncatf as ProJect
tlephone RVenue Forecasts 1/
(Current Lea itllion)
Est.   -----------------------------------    Forecast
1992     199      1994      1995     1996      1997     1998     1999      2000
USAGE REVENE
Residential - Local                                       18S      526      812      1126     1337      1586     1763     2011      2268
- LOng Distance                              436      793      1143     1520     1785      2097     2361     2666      3009
- Internationat                               28       48        70       94       112      123      141       162      186
Total                         649      1367     2024     2739     3234      3806     4285      440      S3
Business - Local                                         180       522      680       796      887      1012     1136     1297      1468
- Long Distance                                 725     1358      1753     2076     2381      2788     3213      3753     4345
- Internmtional                                 646     1374      1808     2223     2621      3155     3739      4491     S347
Total                        1S51     3255      4242     504       5888     6955     8089      9540    111S9
Payhonesf 4S                                                        64       80       91       101       111      123      135       149
Total Usa"g  Revee                                      244       4686     6346      7925     9223    10872    12496    14515    16M
FIXED CHRUES
Residential - St eriptfan                                 61       228      S09      698       890     1105      1350     1623      1739
- ConnectiOn                                  19        5        14       27       39        43       74       76        84
Total                          80      232       523      726       929     1148     1425      1699     1824
Business - Subscription                                   86       243      356      416       479      537       S97      654       715
- Coreection                                     38       56        81      139      210       167      159       116      123
Total                         124      299       437      555       688      704      757       769      837
Total Fixed Charges                                      204       531      960      1281     1617     1852      2181     2469     2661
TOTAL REVEIUE                                           2448      5217     7306     9206    10840    12723    14678    16984    19432
. ..........................................................
1/: MN Revemues.
x
I-.
o g..A



Uultsrian T1ecainfcatfmn  Cany
TIlecomecattons Project
Actal and Forecat Inum Stetemtt
....................................
Curent Le  NItllion
Est.  |-*-- -    -..; ----------------- --  Forest
1991     1992     1993    1994      1995     1996     1997    1996      1999    2000
....     ....  . . ....    ....  . .. ....   ....  . .. ....   ....  . .. ....   ....... ......... .... ..... .........
usage- Residental1                                    49     1367   2a         2739    3234    3806    4285        44O      54M5
- misiness                                    1551     3255    424       5094    588       6955     a069    9540    11S9
- Payheh                                        45        4       80       91      101      1Il      123      135      149
Total Usag ReVw                            174      2244     486    6346    7925        9223   1O672   12496    14515    16771
Fixed Charoes - Residential                           SO      232      S23      726      929     1148     1425     1699     14
-  usfnss                              124      299      437      555      668      704      757      769      837
1otat fixed Chargs                           S5      204      531      960    1281      1617    1852    2181       24w      2661
Total PPM  Rvenues                           1799    248       5217    7306    9206    10840   12723   14678    169"4    194
NMnP  RSTIRevms - Ttex                         90       90      126      147      1S7      161      165      170      175     10
- sentex                     55       55       77       90       96       98      101      104      107      110
- Others                    188      202      310     409       495     s5        673      784      914     1066
Total Telco Revnws                           2133     2796     5730    7951      9953    11676    13663    15736    18180    20769
Operatir  Costs - Staff                       498      969     1391     1717     1944    2120    2312    2522        2751    3001
- Poer                         69      133      192      237      268      293      320      349      381      416
- Materials                   15S      302      462      610      739      861     1050    1280      1560     1902
- Depreciatlon                101      489      823     1105     1386     1625     1875    2216      2628    3113
- Other                        91      177      370      476      477      4S1      S01     51       675      784
Total Operating Costs                         913     2070    3238    4145       4813    S3S1      6058    6948    7995    9216
International Net Outpa wents                   0      149      155      175      214      263      317      382      4S4      S39
National Con.s.System Furd                     21      112      229      318      398      467      547      629      727      832
Operatin  Income                             119       464     2108    3313    4527       559      6741     7m       9004    10201
interest                                      183      178       S7      210      36S      45S      535      703      951     1215
Leos Interest During Construction               0        0       57      191      345      437      53S      283      S82      825
Interest Expensed                             183      178        0       19       20       18        0      420      369      390
Foreign Exchsnge Losses /                     353      129      173       28        3        0        5        S        9       11
Postal Subsidy                                289      375      493
Taxes                                         306        0      788     1699    2291      2817    3387    3865       4412    4939
Net Income                                     67     -218      653     1567    2214      2759     3349    346       4213     4862
.....    ..... .. .....    ..... .. .....    ..... . . .....   ..... . . .....   .......... ...............................
Dividends                                       0        0      190      439      692     1141     1171     1229     1594     1819
To Retained Earnings                           67     -218      464     1128     1522     1619    2179    2256    2619    3044
1/ : On arrears outstanding to foreign PTTs and foreign loan repayments.
Data for 1991 extracted from CPT Anuaut Report.                                                                                                OQ0
0I-



Butgaria
BuLgarian Telecowfnicatiofn C4spany
Telecorunm1cat1f0s Project
Actual and Foreeast Balance Sheet
. ...................................
Current Lev n llion
Est.   - ---------------------------------  Forecast
199      992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
,,,,     ....    ....     ....     ....     ....,   ,..,.    ....     ...      ....
ASSETS
aross Fixed Assets                          5819   10463   14871   19117   23522   26492   31203   36986   43879   51909
Less Acc.Depreclatiofn                       971    2217    3914    5s82    7768    9659   12326   15282   18827   23069
.....   ..... .....   .....   .....   .....    .....   .....   .....   .....
Net Ffxed Asaets In Operation               4842    624S   109S5   13315   157SS   16632   18877   21705   25052   28840
Vork fn Progress                             422      253    2575    S087    S18    6232    7284    9126   10904   12594
Other LT Assets
Total Fixed Aseto                           524    8498   13532   18403   21573   22864   26161 30831   35956   41434
Cash                                          22     121      186      239      278    1701    2297    2966    3890    5090
Receivables                                  381     524      869    1218    1534    1807    2121    2446    2831    3239
Stocks                                       126     209      297      382      470     530      624      740      878    1038
Other
Total Current Assets                        529      854    1353    1839    22M        4038    5042    6152    7598    9367
.. . ..   . . ...         .....   ....    .....   . ...    .. ...   .. ...   ....
Total Assets                                5793    9353   14885   20241   23856   26902   31203   36983   43555   S0801
EQUITY AND LIASILITIES
epf tal                                      477     477      477      477      477     477      477      4?7      477     U77
Retained Earnings                             67    -151      313    1441    2963    4582    6760    9017   11636   14679
RevaluatIon Surplus                         4101    7825   11073   13265   14596   15541   16539   17672   18974   20477'
Total Equity                               4645    8151    11863   15182   18036   20600   23777   27166   31087   35634
Long-Term Debt
Foreign                                     0        0    1333    3267    4745    4635    5645    7928   1024?   12378
Local                                                0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Total Ln Term Debt                             0       0    1333    3267    4745    4635    5645    7928   1024.   12378
Short-Term Debt                              143     274      689      830      450     225      203      182      164      148
Accounts Payable                            574      S23      645      83S      490     533      601      484      780     892
Foreign Tele.Ads.                           439      405      356      127      107     131      159      191      227     270
Current portion - Forelgn                      0       0        0        0       28     778      819      833    1050    1480
- Local                                         0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
Other
Total Current LIabilities                   1156    1202    1689    173    1075    1667    1781    1890    2221    2m
Adjustment                                    -8
.. ..   ...      ---      .... .            ---     ....     .... .   .....    .....:
Total Liabilities and Equity                5793    9353    14885   20241   23856   26902   31203   36983   43555   50801oQ
Mh ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
0 1-4



Bulgaria
Bulgarian Tetecommications Copany
T.tecamaanications Project
Actual and Forecast Sources and Applicaton of Fwuds
.......... ..............................................
current Leva Nillton
Est.   I-----------------------------------    Forecast
199t      9942     1993      1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000
....     ....   .    ....    ....  . .. ....    ....   . .. ....   ....   . .. ....    ......... .... ....... ....... ....... ..
Soq
Net Inom  after taxes                              67     -218       653      1567     2214      2759      3349     3486      4213      4862
Plus : Interest Charges                           183      178         0        19        20       18         0      420       369       390
Oepreciation                              101       489      823      1105      1386      1625     1875      2216     2628      3113
Other non-cash iteme.                     353       129      173        28         3
.....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....    .....
Gross Internal Generation                         704      578      1650      2719     3622      4403      5224     6122      7211      8365
NeW Equity
Foreign Loams - EIB                                          0       634       783      626       362       324      286         0         0
. ES                                          0       388      6S6       339        12        8         0         0         0
- Proposed Loan                               0        53      320       432       229      100         0         0         0
- Other                                       0       162         0        0         0      1326     270       3168     3358
Local Loans                                                  0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
..... ...... ..... .....                . ..... ........ ..... . ..... .....    .......... ...............................
Total Sources                                     704 578           288J      4479     5020      5007       911    10379    11723
.....    ..... .   .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....      .......... ...............................
APPLICATIONS
Investments                                      241         0      2456     3419      2771      1469     3563      5339      5659     5998
of  hich -: Proposed Project                                        2173      3419     2M        1469      1194
Interest uring Construction                                  0        57       191      345       437       535      283       582       825
ebt Servce: Interest                              183      178         0        19       20        18         0      420       369       390
Repayments - foreign                         0         0        0         0        28      783       824       84      1061
- Local                          0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Change in Working Capital
Cash                                           .34        99        66       S2        40      1423      596       669       924      1200
Mon-cash                                       274       302       120      358      1153       490      335       346       408      430
Dividends                                           0        0       190       439      692      1141      1171     1229      15%       1819
.....    ...... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    ....... .....    .......... ...............................
Total Applications                               704       578      2887     4479      S020      5007     6983      911      10379    11723
.....    ..... .   .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....     ..... .. .....      .......... .... ........................
OQQ
x 
O0.



DuLgawia
Bulgrfan Teleconumcatfons CoEpeny
TetecoauIcatfons ProJect
Performance tndicators
............................... .................................. 
1991    1992    1995    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    19"9    2000
8YSTEM CAPAITY AND EXPANSION                -.--    .--- .     ..-     -...       -- -..  ..      --. . ..     *...  ..
Nadr of Vorking Lines ('000)
Not Additfoe  - Re1idential                 90       41        4        r       12       1S       15       23       21      21
- Sus1ness                   -2        19       16       18       28       40       30      27       19       19
- Tot.1                        9       60       20       25       40       55       45      S0       40       40
End of Year - Residentfal                  1813    1834    1858    1865    1877    1892    1907    1930    1951    1972
* Business                     406      425      441      460      488      528      559     S86      605      424
* Totlt                       2219    2279    22$9    2325    2365    2420    2466    2516    2556    2596
Year Average                              2215    2249       289     2312    2345    2393    2443    2491        2536    2576
Total Installed Lines ('000)                272      272      2727     m2       2792     2862    293       2970    3007    3041
Capacity Ut  izatlon (K                       81S  8b %         84%    8S4        85X      8        84      85%      854      85%
Pecent DIlgtization                                                     1.1X    2.7K      S.6"     7.9%    9.7%    11.0    12.1%
*o.of Lne/100 People                          26       26       27       27       27       24       29       29      30       30
Nudr of Staff ('000)                       2500   256   25319    2813   24317   23830   23354   227               229   21980
No.of Workfng Llnes/Eptloyeee                 86       87       90       93       96      100      105      109     113      117
TECHNICAL PERFOUIAMCI
Nointenance Targets :
Faults reports/100 lines p.e.                                                                    SO       47       40       40
X faults cteared within - 48 hours                                                                86      87       a8       90
7 dpys                                                                 100      100      100     100
Average call oempletion rate (X) s 1/
Local Cells                                                                                      70       73       76       80 s
Long-Distance Calls (STD)                                                                        S7       60       65       70                     N
Interational Calls                                                                               47       S0       SS       60
TWAFIC
Charge  pulses/year (biltIon)               10.1    10.9       6.9      7.2      7.7      8.6     9.4    10.3    11.2    12.2
of which - Residential                     S.0      5.5      3.5      3.5      3.6      3.7     3.8      4.1      4.3      4.6
- Business                        5.0      5.2      3.3      3.6      4.1      4.8      5.4     6.1      6.8      7.S
Intl.Outgooinollnctdng Ratio                1.58     1.47     1.33     1.33     1.33     1.33    1.33     1.33     1.33     1.33
FINANCIAL PERFORUWCE
Revenue as K of GOP                         0.63K    0.87X    1.28K    1.46K    1.62K    1.74K    1.85S    1.94X    2.03K    2.10K
operating Ratio ()                          43.8%    83.4X   63.2%    58.3X    S4.5%    52.1%    S0.7K    50.6%    SO.5    S0.9%
Debt-Servfce Cover (times)                   7.1      5.4    51.7    21.0    16.2    14.9         6.5      6.5      6.5      5.9
Internal Cash Generation (K)                          7.2K    43.7X    59.4K    55.3K    88.0K    69.4K    62.2K    60.3K    65.9%
Receivables (months)                        2.14      2.3      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
Return on Assets                            18.4%    7.1%    13.7X    13.3%    15.4K    17.2X    18.9X    19.3K    19.6X    19.5%
Current Ratio                                0.5      0.7      0.8      1.0      2.1      2.4     2.8      3.3      3.4      3.4
LT Debt/(LT Debt + Equfty)                     0K       OX      10      18K      21K      18X     19K      23K      25K      26%             (El
1/ : Neasured during busy hours.
ON



Bulgaria
Bulgarian Teleccunicatfons coa.W
Telecommications Project
Perforvnce Indiceators
,..............................................
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    19           1999    2000
TARIFFS AND PRDWUCTIVITY                  -.-.       ..      ..- . ---    .-.- - ..---    ....    ''''   .  ...    .     '' .
Current Leva
............
Pulse Rate - Residential                   0.10    0.15    0.50    0.73    0.99    1.13    1.28    1.35    1.43    1.52
- usiness                       0.20    0.30    1.00    1.20    1.28    1.28    1.32    1.35    1.43    1.52
Weighted Average Revenue 1/
Per Locat call                           0.16    0.22    0.75    0.95    1.11       1.19    1.29    1.35    1.43    1.52
Long DistancelNinute                     1.46    1.96    4.08    5.08    5.80    6.08    6.S1    6.76    7.17    7.60
International/Ninute                     9.30    11.75   34.49   41.53   44.70   44,89   46.07   47.35   S0.20   53.21
Variable Usage Basket 2/
Residential                               301      521    1176    1869    2501    2969    3497    3968    4496    4959
Percent tnerease (Real)                         -3.72   86.5X   38.9X   23.82   12.7X   11.82    7.52    7.32    4.3X
Business                                 2585    4082    8512   10754   12226   13138   14439   15878   17894   20178
Percent Increase (ReaL)                        .19.02   69.12    6.3X      3.7X    1.52    3.9X     4.02    6.7X      6.8X
Revemue/Line                                963    1243    2503    3439    4244    480    5593    6318    7169    8071
Operating Cost/Line                         422    1037    1S82    2006    2314    2541    2833    3196    3619    4110
Operating Profit/Line                       541      206     921    1433    1931    2338    2759    3122    3551    3961
Staff Cost/Line                             225      431     607      743     829      886      947    1013    1085    1165
Current USS
...........
Pulse Rate - Residential (cents)            0.6      0.6     1.6      2.0     2.6      2.9      3.2     3.4      3.5      3.6
- Business (cents)               1.1      1.3      3.1     3.3      3.3     3.3      3.3      3.4     3.5      3.6
Weighted Average Revenue 1/
Per Local call                           0.01     0.01    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.04    0.04
Lang Distance/Ninute                     0.08    0.08    0.13    0.14    0.15    0.16    0.16    0.17    0.18    0.18
Internatioal/Minute                      0.52    0.50    1.08    1.13    1.16    1.15        1.17    1.18    1.23    1.28
Varieable Usage Basket 2/
Residential                                17       22      37       51      65       76       89      99      110      119
Business                                  144      175     268      293      318     337      366     397      438      484
ReveraA/Line                                 53       53      79       94      110     125      142      158     176      193
Operating Cost/Line                          23       44      S0       SS      60       65       72      80       89       99
Operating Profit/Line                        30       9       29       39       S0      60       70      78       87       95
Staff Cost/LIne                              12       18      19       20      22       23       24      25       27       28
............. ......... ^.............. ................... ........  ...
1/ : Residentfal and business traffic and revenues.                                                                                      °
2/ : Indicates the average annual biLL.                                                                                                   N
0-



64 -
Bulgaria                           Annex 12
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company              Page 3 of 3
Telecommunications Project
Definiion of Terms for Financial Perforance Critei
BTC shall: (a) maintain debt-service coverage ratio, i.e., the ratio of net revenues of the
Company to Its estimated debt-service requirements, of a minimum 2.0 from 1993 onwards; 0b) generate
fiuxs from internal sources sufficient to cover at least 25% of average investments in 1993 and 40%
thereafter, i.e., average of previous, current and succeeding years' investments; and (c) maintain a current
ratio, i.e., ratio of current assets to current liabilities, above 1.0 from 1994 onwards.
(i)      Net operating income is total operating revenues less total operating expenses.
(ii)     Total operating revenues are the revenues from all sources related to operations.
(Iii)    Total operating expenses include all expenses related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision
for depreciation, but excluding interest and charges on debt.
(Iv)     Long-term debt is the indebtedness of the Corporation, with the appropriately revalued
foreign portion, which has a maturity or more than one year.
(v)      Current assets include cash, all assets which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable
securities, and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year, and inventories.
(vi)     Current liabilities include all liabilities which will become due and payable within twelve
months, including accounts payable, customer advances, current portion of long-term
debt, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vii)    Debt service is the aggregate amount of repayments (mcluding sinking-fimd payments,
if any) of, and other charges on, debt.
(viii)    Net revenues are the difference between: the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income; and the sum of all expenses related to
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(ix)     Net non-operation income is the difference between: revenues from all sources other than
those related to operations; and expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incrred in the generation of revenues from all soures other than those related to
operations.
(x)      Funds from inteal sources is the difference between: the sum of net revenues of the
corporation and reductions in worldng capital other than cash; and the sum of debt-
service and increases in working capital other than cash.
(Xi)     Worldng capital other than cash means the difference between: all current assets,
excluding cash and current liabilities.



- 65 -
Bulgaria                         Annex  13
Butgien Telecomunfoatfmns Caom
Telecomctlnstion Proj¢t
Traffic Ficset
Est.      .................................... s Foreost
Assuffptfons                            1992     1993    199       1995     196      199Y      1        1999     2000
,. .............. ....                           ...... ....        ...... ....       ...... ....       ...... .... ......... ,....,,... .
Puts" Per Niwte :
Residential - Local                         1        1        1        1        1        1        1         1        1
- Long Distance                 8        5        5                 5        5                 5        S
- International                40       40       40       40       40       35       35       35       35
Busines- Local                              I        1        1        1        1        1        1         1        1
- Lono Dfstenco                    8        5        5        S        S        5        5        5        5
- Intermational                   40       35       35       35       35       35       35       35       35
Payplins                                    1        1        1        1        1        *        1         1,
Avaras Call Duration Cmiuwtes)
Residentfal - Local                         3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3
- Lorg Distam                   1        1        1        1        1        1        1        I        1
- Internatioal                  1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
lusiness - Local                            3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3
- Long Distance                    I        1        1        1        1                 1        1        1
- Inteational                      1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Payphoa                                     I        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Forecast
Trafffc Per Line (Ninutes/Year)
Residential - Local                      2557    2179    22S        2335     2417    2510      2642     2780     2925
- Long Distance               243      219      215      210      215      221      233      246      259
- International                 3        2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2
Busfnms  - Local                         4370    3738    3901       40S3     4209    4363      4528    468C    4845
- Long Distance                  m        648      670      705      153      801      854      903      956
- International                  131       94       99      106      118      130      142      154      168
Payphonas                                6276    6402    6530       6660     6193    6929      7068     7209     7353
Total Traffic (Nlillon Nirutes/Tewr)
Residential - Local                      4741    4C48    4262       432    4n         4786    5099      5423     5768
- Long Distance               451      4        400      394      407      422      450      479      510
- International                 6        3        3        3        3        4        4        4        5
Business - Local                         1796     1596     1736     1917    2159      2369    2561      2757    2941
- Long Distance                  302      277      298      333      386      435      48?      532      580
- International                   54       40       44       51       61       70       81       91      102
Payphones                                  89       93       96 f      00     104      109      113      118      122
Charged Pulses/Year (biltion)            10.9      6.9      7.2      7.7      8.6      9.4     10.3      11.2    12.2
Residential - Local                       1.6      1.3      1.4      1.5      1.5      1.6      1.7       1.8      1.9
- Long Distance               3.7      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.1      2.3      2.4      2.6
- International               0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2
Bksinass - Local                          0.6      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9      0.9       1.0
- Long Distance                  2.5      1.4      1.5      1.7      1.9      2.2      2.4      2.7      2.9
- International                  2.2      1.4      1.5      1.8      2.1      2.5      2.6      3.2      3.6
Payphenes                                 0.1      0.1      0-1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
,, ........ ,,,......... ,,,,,,,,.................................._._,_



- 66 -
Annex 14
BULGARIA                       Page 1 of 2
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
Tdecommunications Project
Intal Rates of Return
All costs and benefits are presented in both current prices and constant 1993 prices, and are
based on the following assumptions.
Syste  Expanion
1.    MMw Dizi1aLLine: lhe number of new digital lines to be connected between 1994-97 based
on the project (DON) implementation. All digital lines would be provided to business subscribers.
1.    Investment Co: Based on the phasing of investments for the DON project.
2. O & M Costs: Annual 0 & M costs at 8% of cumulative investments in the DON project
adjusted for domestic inflation.
3.    Customs Dieii: At 15.5% of imported equipment component of the DON project.
1.    Fixed Cha   : One time charges for connection at the business-subscriber connection rate
ad annual subscription charges at applicable business-subscriber rates. For new lines connected
during the year, subscription charges assumed at half the business-subscriber fee to account for round-
the-year connections.
2.    Usa  Cha         Ithe traffic on new digital lines based on three times the average trffic on
analog lines for business users. Usage revenue computed at the applicable tariff per pulse for
business subscbers.
Memo Item
1. Deflators: Based on the Bank's forecast for domestic inflation (please see page 3 of Annex
11).



Butgaria
Bulgarian Ttelcomuinications Coqnany
Telecoumxnicatfons Project
Internal Rates of Return Computation
From 2001
BASE CASE                               1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000   to 2010
.. .  ,... ..... .......  ....  ......  ....  .....    ....  .....  .......... 
NEW DIGITAL LINES
Added during year                        0        25        40        55        45
In operation at EOY                      0        25        65       120       165       165       165       165       16S
. ............................. .......................................................... ..................................
COSTS
Investment Costs (current)            2094     3397       2958      1837      1594
Investment Costs (constant)          2094      2831       2241      1313      1075
0 & N Costs                              0       439       720       910      1092      1158      1227      1301      1379
O & N Costs (constant)                   0       366       545       650       736       736       736       736       781
Totat Eco.Costs (constant)            2094       3197     2786      1963      181t       736       736       736       781
....           ....  .   ....      ....  .    ....     ....  .   ....      ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Custom  Duties (current)               128       213       158        69        54
Custom  Duties (constant)              128       178       119        49        36
Total Finl.Costs (constant) 1/    2221          3375      2906      2013      18K47      736       736       736       781
....      ....  .    ....     ....  .  . ----     ....  .    ....     ---- .    .... .. ..... ..... ..... ..
BENEFITS
Fixed Charges
Corvection                             0        81       139       210       167
Subscription                           0        10        40        86       141       173       183       194       194
....     ....       ....      ....      ....      ....      ....      .... ----.----...- - -
Total Fixed Charges                      0        91       178       296       308       173       183       194       194                                       -
Usage Charges                            0       365      1498      3314      5631      7195      8153      9241      9241
Total Benefits (current)                 0       456      1677      3610      5939      7368     8336       9435     9435
Total Benefits (constant)                0       380      1270      2580      4004      4687     5002       5341     5341
....      ....  .   ....      ....  .   ....      ....  .   ....      ....  .    .... ..... ...... .......... ..... ..
NET BENEFITS
Net Benefits (economIc)              -2094    -2817    -1516         617      2193      3950     4266       4605      4561
Net Benefits (financial)             -2221    -2995    -1636         568      2157      3950     4266       4605      4561
.. . ..... ...... .... ....... .... ...... ........... .. .... .................
Memo Item : Deftators                      1      1.20      1.32      1.40      1.48      1.57      1.67      1.77      1.77
.. . . ...   .  ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . ....................  .      .
NPV B 10X Discount Rate is (Lv.Bn) *    16.1    and            IERR =    33.0X
15.6    and         FRR =    31.6%
1/ : Excluding customs duties.
Ix
o   .



Bulgaria
Bulgarian Telecomufnicatifon  Company
Telecomuunications Project
Resource Nobilization
.... ..... .. .. . ..........
(In Current Leva Nillion)
1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
....  ....     ....      .. ..     ....     ....      ....     ....
Turnover Tax on Residential
Revenues 1/                                                       451       718      977     1174      1397      1610     1844      2055
National Commanications
System Fund Contributions 2/                                     229      318       398      467       S47      629       727      832
Corporate Tax                                                       606      1307     1762     2167      2605      2973     3394      3799
.wmicipal Tax                                                       152       327      441       542      651       743      849       950
Irrfgation Tax                                                       30       65        88      108       130       149      170       190
Custom  Duties 3/                                                   128      213       158       69       228       394      t47       442
Dividends                                                           190      439       692     1141      1171      1229     1594      1819
Other 4/                                                             11        29       43       48        58        81      107       133
Total Resources                                   1797     3417      4558     5716      6788      7810     9103    10220
In USS million Equivalent                                     57        93      118       147      172       195      223       245
. .. .. .... .... . ........ .............. ... .............. ......................... .....
1/   At 22a on all revenues from residential subscribers.
2/   At 4X of Telco revenues, before interest and taxes.
3/ : At 15.5X of imported goods.
4/   Fees from loan guarantee, etc. a 1/10th of 1X p.a. on outstanding balance.
Ix
I-



- 69 -
Annex 16
BULGARIA
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
Telecommunications Proiect
List of Items in Project Files
1.    Outline of Terms of Reference for Telecommunications Sector Restructuring [Bulgaria
Telecommunications Sector Survey (Green Cover) Report (No. 10145-BUL) of November 26,
19911
2.    Arthur D. LAttle and Nepostel Reports (3 Volumes)
(a) Telecommunications Investments Plan
(b) Market and Financial Annexes
(c) Technical Annexes
3.    Final Report (Febmary 1992) by Interconnect Communications Consultants, Ltd., UK, on
Regulation, Legal Framework, etc.
4.    KPMG Management Consulting Final Report (December 1992) on Sector Policy, Regulatory
Issues, Privatization and Divestiture Options (Group 1)
5.    KPMG Management Consulting Draft Final Reports (Group 2 & 4)
(a) Implementation Process of New Organization in BTC (July 1992)
(b) Review of Training, Development and Recruitment in BTC (August 1992)
(c) Management Information Flows and Performance Indicators (August 1992)
6.    Touche-Ross and Danish Telecom (Group 3) Reports
(a) Final Report on Accounting and Financial Management (May 1992),
including two Appendices
(b) Financial Review and Tariff Study (Stage 1), June 1992
(c) Tariff Study (Stage 2) Draft Final Report (January 1993) with Appendices.
7.    BTC Report on DON Project (1993-97) including revised project costs and financing plan
(February 1993).
8.    Suggested TOR for technical assistance to CPT for strengthening policy making and
regulatory capabilities.
9.    Suggested TOR for the services of an implementation supervision consultant for the DON
Project.
10.   TOR for the financial audit of BTC.



IBRD 24612
B U L G  A R I A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 Danube River
DIGITAL OVERLAY NETWORK                                                                               R O     M A N I A
PROPOSED NEW DIGITAL     G
OTHER     BANK   EXISTING
FINANCING FINANCING                                             J
TELEPHONE EXCHANGES                                                                                                  (RS)                            %
TERTIARYKbt
&.agEIorohIikTe1 
nr 1>'                  SECONDARY
*    PRIMARY                                                             K.- Y                                                                                           (DS)
MIHAJLOVGRAO (MH)_                         PLEPVEIN            alic                        (E°RZ    N-vi ....
TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS                                 i                                (VP.,                                                           etn    VAN
OPT1CAL FIRER CABLES                                                                                                        TARGOVIST
- -         ~~~~MICROWAVE LINKSVRC 
(OIGITAL ldoMrr;l                                  LOVEC                    @  I~~~~~     ~        ~     ~    ~~~~~~~VELIKO  rsvSor                         s
SATELLITE EARTH STATION  k                                                                                     NOVO 
TV. TOWERS                            a6ib                                                   GARV                                                        Nsb      _
o  MICROWAVESTATIONS                  Slimi      k      SOFIA                                                                  ASUVEN                       N-bAs
: RIVERS                                             (PK)                                                                                                                                SEA
SOFiA   NATIONAL CAPiTAL
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               INKT7Aen                                            GO
>                     (            \KJ~~~~~~~        ~       ~       ~~~~~USTENDiL  Bek %     [PLODiV)
ROMANIA                                                                   P
Block     42
\                      5~~~~~                                                                     ~         ~~~ec  ( HA)K       ubllin ec 
J  B U L G ARIA                                                                             ,At   L    Swile.                                              T  U  R  K  E  YA
Sofia                                                                                         SON
TURKEY                                                      G  R  E   E                                                                          50
GREECE                                                  23' e n
MARCH 1993



