                  Document of
                The World Bank




                                          Report No: ICR0000521



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
             (IDA-33250 IDA-33251)




                     ON A

                    CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION
        (US$ 17.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                    TO THE

            REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES

                     FOR A

    THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT




                  July 30, 2007




          Human Development Sector Unit
                South Asia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2007)

                                Currency Unit =Rufiyaa (Rf)
                                     1.00 Rf = US$0.08
                                    US$ 1.00 = Rf 12.80

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1-December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEC      Atoll Education Center
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DHET     Department of Higher Education and Training
DPE      Department of Public Examinations
EDC      Education Development Center
EMIS     Education Management and Information System
ESQIS    Education Supervision and Quality Improvement Section
ETP      Education and Training Project
FE       Faculty of Education
FMC      Faculty of Management and Computing
GER      Gross Enrollment Ration
GOM      Government of Maldives
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IMA      Institute of Management and Administration
ITE      Institute of Teacher Education
MCHE     Maldives College of Higher Education
MCPW     Ministry of Construction and Public Works
MHREL    Ministry of Human Resources, Employment and Labor
MMA      Maldives Monetary Authority
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOFT     Ministry of Finance and Treasury
MPND     Ministry of Planning and National Development
NA       National Assessment
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NPV      Net Present Value
NSB      National Scholarship Board
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAS      Public Accounting System
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMC      Project Management and Coordination Section
PMR      Project Management Report/Project Management Reporting
QSA7     Seventh Quality of Supervision Assessment
SASED    South Asia Region, Education Sector Unit
SASHD    South Asia Region, Human Development Unit
SETP     Second Education and Training Project
STR      Student-Teacher Ratio
TA       Technical Assistance

TETP           Third Education and Training Project
UCLES          University of Cambridge Local Examinations



Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
Country Director:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:      Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader: Venita Kaul
ICR Team Leader:     Helen J. Craig

                                                   Maldives
                           Third Education and Training Project




                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 30
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 36
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 47
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Third Education and
Country:                Maldives              Project Name:
                                                                     Training Project
Project ID:             P055944               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33250,IDA-33251
ICR Date:               07/30/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     MALDIVES
Original Total
                        XDR 12.9M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 12.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/08/1998    Effectiveness:         06/21/2000        06/21/2000
Appraisal:             01/25/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/16/2000    Mid-term Review:                         02/28/2003
                                     Closing:               03/31/2005        01/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             4                 4
Primary education                                            13                11
Secondary education                                          43                45
Tertiary education                                           30                30
Vocational training                                          10                10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                           Primary          Primary
Education for the knowledge economy                         Primary          Primary
Gender                                                     Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          Praful C. Patel                  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        Alastair J. McKechnie            Fakhruddin Ahmed
Sector Manager:          Michelle Riboud                  Grant G. Sinclair
Project Team Leader:     Venita Kaul                      Vincent M. Greaney
ICR Team Leader:         Helen J. Craig
ICR Primary Author:      Helen J. Craig



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project will improve education quality and efficiency, increase equitable access,
strengthen institutional capacity, and develop professional skills in the national labor
force.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                National learning achievements available: (a) Number of secondary students

Indicator 1 :   taking & achieving pass level in Grade 10 (O-level) and Grade 12 (A-level)
                exams; (b) Learning achievement levels based on national assessment for Gr. 4 &
                Gr 7.
                                                                              (a) Number of

                (a) Number of students                                        students taking O-

                taking O-level and A-                                         level and A-level

                level exams=2018 & 198.     Increased numbers                 exams=7666 &

Value                                                                         833. Number of
quantitative or passing O-level & A-leveland
                Number of students          of students taking
                                                passing tests                 students passing O-

Qualitative)    exams= 504 & 88.            was sought, but no                level & A-level

                (b) No baseline data        specific targets                  exams= 1598 &

                available for primary       defined.                          328

                learning achievement.                                          (b) Gr 4 & Gr 7
                                                                              math results sound;
                                                                              Eng. low.
Date achieved 12/01/1999                    09/03/2005                        09/30/2005
Comments        (a) Secondary: Total taking O-level, A-level exams increased (279.8%, 320.7%
(incl. %        over baseline). Total passing increased 217%, 272.7%, but slight drop in pass
achievement)    rate (b) Primary: results mixed. Details reported in Annex 2.

Indicator 2 :   Increased transition rate from primary to secondary education by gender and by
                location
                                                                              2004 data (before
                                                                              automatic
                                                                              promotion)
                                                                              National rate = 66%
                National transition                                           (F=71%; M=62%)

Value           average from primary to     Improvement in                    Atolls = 51%

quantitative or secondary education:        transition rate                   (F=54%; M=48%)

Qualitative)    60.3%
                Transition rate in atolls:  from 30% to 50%.                  2005 data
                42% . (F=41%; M=42%)                                          National = 88%
                                                                              (F=92%; M=84%
                                                                              Atolls=79%
                                                                              (F=81%; M=76%)

Date achieved 01/01/2000                    09/30/2005                        09/30/2005
Comments        Atoll baseline data originally reported 22%, hence original target 30%-50%.
(incl. %        Based on revised baseline figures (i.e. 42% Atolls, and 60.3% nationally), still
achievement)    clear transition rates: Atoll 88%, national 45% over baseline.
Indicator 3 :   Increased number of trained and qualified nationals in the labor force
Value           No baseline data available(a)   Number of                     (a) 321 (of 331, 8
quantitative or                             graduates and                     terminated, and 2



                                                 iii

Qualitative)                              other professionals                finished after Jan.
                                          trained overseas                   2007). Of the 321,
                                          (322) and at                       63 (20%) for
                                          MCHE (16). (b)                     graduate programs,
                                          number of national                 258 (80%) for
                                          junior-secondary                   under-graduate.
                                          school teachers                    Prof. trained at
                                          trained (1,500                     MCHE, 16 staff,
                                          primary, 300                       5,560 students (b)
                                          secondary)                         1,775 teachers
                                                                             preservice; 1,345
                                                                             prim, 1,885 jun.
                                                                             sec. inservice
Date achieved 01/01/2000                  01/31/2007                         01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        (a) 98% of professionals completed their overseas training. (b) overall training

achievement)    of teachers exceeded targets.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   National Assessment Unit operational to conduct national learning achievement
                tests
                                                                             National
                                                                             Assessment Unit
                                          The National                       operational. A NA
                                          Assessment Unit is                 was piloted in 2001

Value           No trained professional   able to conduct                    and 2002, with the

(quantitative   were available to conduct national learning                  first main

or Qualitative) national assessments      achievement tests                  assessment
                                          to support policy                  conducted in 2003
                                          makers and                         (report finalized in
                                          schools                            2004) for Gr 4 and
                                                                             7. The next NA is
                                                                             scheduled for 2007.
Date achieved 01/01/2000                  12/30/2001                         09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Improvement in availability of timely and valid data through the operational
                EMIS system
                                          EMIS-capable of                    EMIS-capable of
Value                                     producing                          producing
(quantitative   No automated EMIS         educational                        educational
or Qualitative) system available          statistics from data               statistics from data,
                                          for future use                     but needs additional



                                               iv

                                                                           parameters to be
                                                                           more useful.
Date achieved 01/01/2000                  09/30/2005                       09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement of project target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Improved pre-service teacher training
                                                                           1,339 students

Value           330 students enrolled in  954 students                     (F=362, M=1,037)

(quantitative   the Faculty of Education  enrolled in the                  enrolled and trained

or Qualitative) in 2000                   Faculty of                       (preservice teacher
                                          Education in 2004.               education) in 2005

Date achieved 01/01/2000                  12/31/2004                       09/30/2005
Comments        100% achievement of 2004 target. By end of project, target was exceeded by
(incl. %        40%. Based on other information presented in the ICR, the quality of the
achievement)    preservice training programs at FE improved.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP              Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     07/13/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     03/20/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.17
  3     10/15/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.25
  4     05/06/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.02
  5     08/22/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.07
  6     04/30/2003          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                   6.79
  7     10/31/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    8.95
  8     04/29/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   10.90
  9     07/22/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   12.61
  10    01/05/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   15.74
  11    06/08/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   15.78
  12    12/09/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   16.07
  13    06/16/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   16.07
  14    12/20/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   16.07



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Republic of Maldives is a chain of 1,190 low lying islands over a distance of 900 kilometers in
the Indian Ocean. At the time of project appraisal, 198 of the islands were inhabited by a population
of 270,101 (2000 Census). The Maldives faces development constraints typical of small island states
including a shortage of skilled personnel, high costs to deliver social services and public
administration, a small domestic market, and a narrow and fragile resource base. Also, some islands
have become too densely populated to sustain their communities e.g. the greater Male' area is home
to 70,000 people or almost a quarter of the total population.

In support of the Government's objectives, the primary focus areas of the 1995 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) were acceleration of human resource development to contribute to social and
economic growth and the reduction of poverty in the outer atolls. The 1999 Country Economic
Memorandum (18340-MAL) emphasized the importance of addressing issues of low quality, rising
expenditure and limited institutional capacity in the social sectors.

The Maldives places a high priority on education as part of its human resource development strategy.
Education facilities tend to occupy the central place on islands, or where not available locally,
parents send their children away, often to schools in Male'. Primary education net enrollment
reached 100 percent in 1998. High population growth, together with increased participation in basic
education over the previous decade, created substantial demand for lower secondary education
especially in the outer atolls. In the Government's strategy, as set out in the Education Master Plan
(1996-2005), sector issues identified were: (i) limited access to secondary education and low internal
efficiency of the education system: nearly 50 per cent of seventh graders repeated or dropped out. On
average it took thirteen years schooling to produce a primary school (seven year program) graduate
and more than five additional years of schooling to produce a lower secondary school (three year
program) graduate; (ii) inequitable distribution of education resources (facilities, materials and
qualified teachers): schools in the atolls were more poorly equipped than the schools in Male' where
per student expenditure was two to three times higher; (iii) high costs and financial sustainability:
costs of education had risen considerably with the high numbers of students participating in school
and expansion of the education system. Costs would become unsustainable without more efficient
use of resources; (iv) sustainability and weak management capacity: more strategic planning was
being hindered by the dearth of good quality data on the education system both at central and atoll
levels.

The Third Education and Training Project (TETP) was designed to address these sector issues
identified by Government. In addressing these issues, the Government also sought to reduce the
country's dependence on foreign workers and the associated costs, improve services and livelihoods
for people on outer atolls, relieve population pressure and sustainability difficulties in more densely
populated atolls, and encourage beneficiary ownership for skill development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objectives were to assist the Borrower to improve educational quality and
efficiency, increase equitable access, strengthen institutional capacity, and develop professional skills
in the national labor force.



                                                1

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), progress towards achievement of the project
development objectives was to be measured by:
     Number of secondary students taking and achieving pass level in national certificate
         examinations at grades 10 and 12, by gender and location
     Learning achievement levels based on national assessment of mathematics at grades 4 & 7
     Enrollments by level, by gender and by location in targeted atolls
     Primary to secondary school transition rates, by gender and by location in targeted atolls
     Student-teacher ratios (STRs) in Male' and in the atolls
     Availability of timely and valid data (from Annex 1)
     Number of national teachers, by gender and location
     Number of national professionals in the labor force

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project were: (i) students, teachers and head teachers in the primary
education and secondary schooling cycles, with particular emphasis on secondary schools in 10
atolls; (ii) Ministry of Education (MOE) officials at central and atoll levels; and (iii) other national
professionals in the labor force in the public and private sectors. The financial, educational and
social benefits of establishing more secondary schools, especially in the outer atolls, are evident with
many more families being able to school their children, and closer to the safety and support of their
home base, and reducing pressure on Male'. This has enabled more students to get a secondary
education and to potentially gain the necessary foundational skills for the work force. School
provision in the atolls also reduced overcrowding pressure on Male'. Capacity building has
strengthened the services now able to be provided by institutional beneficiaries including: Atoll
Education Centers in each of 10 atolls, other primary and secondary schools, MOE, Institute for
Teacher Education (ITE)1, Institute of Management and Administration (IMA)2, Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), and some private sector businesses.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project was structured around four main components and several sub-components which are
summarized below. Please note that under the component description in the PAD, "efficiency" is
linked with Component (c): Strengthen Institutional Capacity. However, since "efficiency" is linked
with improving education quality in the project development objectives, for the remainder of this
ICR, "efficiency" is linked with Component (a): Improve Educational Quality.

(a) Improve education quality and efficiency (US$4.3 million). The desired key outcome of this
component was to improve the quality of classroom instruction in order to impact learning




1The name changed to Faculty of Education when it became part of the Maldives College of Higher Education.

2The name changed to Faculty of Management and Computing when it became part of the Maldives College of Higher
Education.




                                                      2

achievement levels at the primary, lower- and upper-secondary levels. This was to be achieved by
collectively:
     strengthening primary and secondary teacher education programs: (i) upgrading teacher
        educator skills and facilities at the Institute of Teacher Education, (ii) providing atoll-based
        inservice teacher training, and (iii) supporting staff development for school supervisors and
        ITE staff.
     expanding secondary preservice teacher education facilities and programs;
     improving the primary school curriculum and textbooks as well as developing textbook
        publishing capacity;
     developing a policy for a new secondary public examination system;
     developing and conducting national assessments of student learning in select primary grades.

(b) Increase equitable access (US$5.5 million). The outcomes of increased secondary school access
and improved transition rates to lower secondary, especially in the outer atolls, were to be achieved
by targeting the needs of students, teachers and headmasters of those atolls. Targeted activities
included:
     constructing and upgrading facilities at the Atoll Education Centers (AECs) in each of four
        atolls;
     providing science equipment and laboratories at the AECs in ten atolls;
     training teachers and headmasters of these atoll schools.

(c) Strengthen institutional capacity (US$1.2 million). The outcome of increased availability of
timely and valid data to improve planning and implementation of education programs was to be
achieved by:
     providing technical assistance to develop an Education Management Information System
        (EMIS) and expanding the information links to the atolls;
     supporting the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including construction advisors for two
        outer atolls.

(d) Train qualified nationals for the labor force (US$6.5 million). The outcome of increased
numbers of personnel of the national labor force with raised professional skill levels was to be
achieved by:
     supporting overseas fellowships and in-country skills training for selected professionals in
        the private and public sectors;
     supporting an evaluation of the fellowships program, a labor market needs assessment, and
        one further study related to educational quality;
     expanding and upgrading business training programs at the Institute of Management and
        Administration (IMA) by providing staff development, training and educational materials.

1.6 Revised Components
The original components were not formally revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
The original project closing date of March 31, 2005 was extended to September 30, 2005 for all
components (except the fellowship component) in view of the tsunami which hit in December 2004,
and related disruption of governmental activities. For the fellowship component, January 31, 2007
had already been established as the revised closing date in IDA's communications dated June 10,
2004. The extension was requested because of difficulties in selecting candidates and identifying the


                                                 3

right training courses. In addition, there was a need to stagger the fellowships since releasing all
candidates for training at the same time would have adversely affected the critical mass of available
staff in certain areas. All components were duly completed on September 30, 2005 except for the
overseas fellowship component, which completed on January 31, 2007.

Additional financing of SDR0.92 million (US$1.3 million equivalent) was approved in April 2006 to
help meet the financing gap created by a partial cancellation of the TETP credit to meet the
emergency needs of the post-tsunami reconstruction in the Maldives after December 2004. It
financed the payment of overdue scholarship obligations and fee payments for 186 students to
undergo overseas training as part of the project's capacity building strategy. There was no change in
the objectives, design or scope of the project to be financed under the additional financing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Background analysis to support TETP was sound. The education strategies chosen for TETP were
selected on the basis of priorities set out in Government's Education Master Plan (1996-2005), and
the Fifth National Development Plan (1997-2001); experience gained from the two previous IDA
supported education and training projects in the Maldives, and project technical studies; and
international experience of education issues in small island states and other countries in the region.

The third in a series of education and training projects in the Maldives, TETP was designed to
consolidate the gains achieved by the two former IDA-supported projects. The objectives and
component activities were well-aligned with Government priorities and major education sector issues.
It became apparent during implementation that the quality objectives were very ambitious, especially
in terms of expected student learning achievement in the project period. The PAD listed three
indicators linked to learning achievement. The first was realistic i.e. "learning achievement test
scores available", because it was feasible for the system to develop a national assessment process to
begin to track learning achievement. The other two indicators "increase in student achievement
levels" (primary) and "increase in secondary student attainment levels" were more challenging. At a
time when the education system was being stretched to its staffing limit to develop institutional
foundations to facilitate quality improvement (e.g. curriculum revision and capacity to develop better
instructional materials), it was difficult to also keep pace with the rapid expansion of the education
system in the early stages of the project (e.g. supplying sufficient numbers of trained secondary
school teachers, and continue to develop their needed skills). There was also insufficient time within
the project period to enable the new quality interventions to firmly take root in changed thinking and
teaching practice, and therefore to have an attributable effect on learning.

The Government's strong commitment to TETP was reflected in its involvement in the development
and design of the project. During project preparation, consultations were held with Government
ministers, senior officials of line ministries, teachers, tertiary students and with representatives of the
business community. Visits were made to atolls included in the project and meetings held with atoll
chiefs and members of councils.

The project at entry had identified several pertinent risks. One of these regarding delays in awarding
fellowships, while well identified, had underestimated some events including course entry
requirements and dollar devaluation. The mitigation measure i.e. fellowship awards restricted to the
first three years of the project, was not adhered to, and it was decided to keep the project open for
reasons of disbursements and accountability. Extending the project had a positive result in that


                                                  4

outcomes were attained. Second, the influence of demographics factors (including recent declining
birth rates and people living on sparsely populated islands) on the achievement of better student-
teacher ratios (STRs) was underestimated. The legal covenant and indicator to increase STRs was
dropped in January 2005. In retrospect, it might have been more productive to focus the dialogue on
efficiency of service delivery, rather than student teacher ratios.

While there was no quality at entry review by the Quality Assurance Group, the Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA7) did assess the overall quality at entry as very solid and realistic,
characterized by strong borrower ownership and well targeted actions, but risk rating and the results
framework needed some improvement.

2.2 Implementation
From the time of design and preparation, until implementation nearly two years later, the education
sector went through extremely rapid expansion, due in no small part to the achievements of the first
two education and training projects. During this time, aspects of the local context quickly changed.
For example, such was the increased demand for trained secondary school teachers that greater
flexibility for teacher recruitment in outer atolls and alternative means to more quickly train teachers
was urgently required. Also, shortly after project inception, the Department of Public Examinations
unexpectedly made a major policy shift and opted for University of Cambridge Local Examinations
Syndicate (UCLES) to offer O-level examinations from November 2002. This required a re-draft of
what the sub-component would support.

Part of the difficulty in responding quickly to these changes lay with the complex project
implementation and authority structure. Responsibility for project coordination rested with the
Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT), while the responsibility for actual project implementation
was assumed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), located within the Ministry of Human
Resources, Employment and Labor (MHREL). MHREL had successfully implemented the first two
education and training projects. However, the intricacies of implementing new quality innovations
introduced in the TETP amid rapid changes in schooling were much better understood by MOE than
by MHREL staff. Thus, the time taken to resolve the administrative responsibilities of the two
Ministries, compounded by high turnover of PIU staff, resulted in implementation delays during the
first three years of the project. The delays were caused by, among other things, fellowship awards,
meeting IDA's procedures for procurement clearance, difficulties in delivering in-service training
and in communication between project executing agencies and the PIU.

By the Mid-Term Review in March 2003, the project was assessed as a problem project because two
of the four components were in danger of not meeting their development objectives. However, as a
result of strong political leadership, strengthening of implementation capacity, and agreement on key
next steps for the problematic areas (including placing the PIU under the responsibility of the MOE,
and placing the cost-recovery responsibilities with the Department of Higher Education and
Training), the project was able to be turned around. Within six months the project was back on track
to achieve development objectives. The tsunami emergency in December in 2004 resulted in nine
schools being completely destroyed, while some 46% of schools required varying degrees of repair
and rehabilitation to function properly. This did result in some further disruptions to the project, but
to the credit of the Government, there were no major setbacks to the TETP.

In 2006, a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) was undertaken by the Quality Assurance
Group. The overall assessment of the period FY05-06 supervision was rated satisfactory. The Panel



                                                 5

highlighted a number of areas where the supervision team did more than a commendable job. Further
details are provided in Section 5.1 regarding the Bank's performance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design: Adequate performance indicators were provided to monitor progress towards the
project development objectives under the parameters of this particular project. However, while these
indicators were described in the PAD's project description, the preciseness of targets was not always
carried over and identified in the results framework, making progress monitoring awkward. Also, at
project preparation, several baseline values were basic since these measures referred to processes
initiated under the project (e.g. learning achievement scores). Overall, M&E design was adequate to
the task at hand.

M&E Implementation: Two key tools for strengthening monitoring, evaluation and planning capacity
were developed. The first was an Education Management and Information System (EMIS)
established in the MOE to collect data on education statistics, with special reference to student
enrollment and transition rates; teachers by gender and location, and participation and achievement
rates in O-level and A-level examinations. The established system facilitated the regular collection
of data through appropriate collection methods, and resulted in the production of national education
statistics annually from 2004. This also provided much of the data for the MOE and PIU to report on
progress of the project, and for their comprehensive ICR report. The quality and reliability of the data
provided for the ICR is sound. Further strengthening of the EMIS is needed to enable more flexibility
in obtaining additional data, and to use information for making ongoing improvements in the
education system (see Section 3.2). The second tool was a national assessment system, with the first
national assessment taking place for grades 4 and 7 in 2003. It was originally envisaged that three
rounds of national assessment would take place in the last three years of the project, enabling
analysis of learning trends, but this was not possible due to delays in technical assistance and
institutional capacity building. The second round of assessment is now due in 2007. There is also
much more work now being done by the Education Supervision and Quality Improvement Section
(ESQIS) through school supervision as a good example of a more qualitative monitoring approach to
complement the quantitative monitoring of what is happening in the education system. Third party
supervision also provided a thorough review of the project in 2004 and sound recommendations for
ongoing improvement.

M&E Utilization: Utilization of collected data for policy formulation, informing decision-making and
resource allocation began during the project. For example, MOE observed from the EMIS data that
large numbers of secondary school students left school at the grade 10 level without taking the O-
level examination and hence without the relevant credentials. This led to the introduction of a
National Secondary School Certificate for school leavers who do not sit for the O-level exam, a
proposal to revise the secondary curriculum to provide better work-related skills, and a proposal to
provide more relevant post-secondary vocational education. The results of the National Assessment
were useful to show difficulties in learning in English medium of instruction. As a result of this, the
Education Development Center (EDC) is revising both the Mathematics and English syllabi to
coordinate with teacher training to cover as many primary school teachers as possible. While the
impact of the coordination of syllabi revision and teacher training on student learning remain to be
seen, this strategy to monitor and assess student learning provides evidence that the authorities have
proactively used the M&E system to address teaching-learning issues.




                                                6

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance: This is rated satisfactory. No issues were reported regarding compliance
with the Bank policy and procedural requirements.

Financial Management: The overall performance of financial management is rated satisfactory. The
audits have been, for the most part, timely with a clean opinion and have not had any major
accountability issues. Reporting under the project has also been adequate and meets the need of the
decision-making process of the project stakeholders. Some improvements have been made in
forecasting the expenditures and project's control over total expenditures has also increased. The
finance head of the project has been in PIU since the beginning of the project and has been able to
train and guide the finance staff within the department, although there has been staff turnover.

In general, the project has not faced any major delays in paying off their commitments/ payables,
except during 2005 when cancellation for the tsunami operation was effected. SDR1.32 million was
cancelled on February 8, 2005 from the Credit and allocated to the tsunami recovery operation.
Supplemental financing of SDR0.92 million was provided to cover funding shortfalls in April 2006
(Credit No. 33251-MAL).

Disbursements: Of the original Credit of SDR12.9 million, after cancellation of SDR1.32 million, the
balance of SDR 11.58 million was fully disbursed. Regarding the Supplemental Credit of SDR0.92
million, disbursements reached SDR0.47 million.

Procurement: Overall procurement performance is rated satisfactory. There were some
difficulties for which solutions were found to keep the work on track, as explained later.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Based on the follow-up to all activities which were completed in 2005, GOM has shown its
commitment to sustaining TETP investments by continuing with several of the activities, including
in-country skill development programs, teacher training, curricular reform and instructional material
development. GOM now needs to address the issues of retaining a critical mass of trained staff within
the education system, as well as maintaining financial sustainability and operational effectiveness of
the current arrangements for service delivery and cost-recovery. These issues, if not resolved, will
likely hinder MOE's ability to consolidate institutional capacity-building, as well as adequately
manage further expansion of the education system, especially for the secondary and post-secondary
levels.

The current performance indicators provide a sound understanding of the performance of the
education system. Providing a stronger focus on the learning outcomes in the next few years should
provide a good indication if the quality improvements are synchronizing to enhance student learning.
The one addition that would be useful to also monitor is the learning achievement of those students at
the secondary level who do not sit for either the O-level and/or A- level examinations.

In December 2004, the Government began implementation of an Integrated Human Development
Project (IHDP). It has an education component that draws on the progress made and lessons learned
during the TETP. The IHDP benefits secondary school students and poor and female students who
have problems attending school away from their home islands.




                                               7

Follow-up work by the Bank might assist GOM to undertake the following: (i) analytical work to
determine the future demand for secondary education, and what resources and means of service
delivery would be best to address the situation to ensure learning, sustainability and cost-
effectiveness; (ii) exploration of the possibility to use more decentralized governance and teacher
support structures; (iii) analytical work to determine future demand for higher education needs, and
to understand how best to develop higher education sector growth and its links to the economy; and
(iv) establishment of a comprehensive education policy framework to increase accountability, clarity,
integration and ownership of quality improvements across stakeholders of the education system.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of Objectives: The objectives of the project remain relevant and consistent with GOM's
current Seventh National Development Plan (2006-2010), its ongoing education plans and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy of November, 2000. This current CAS emphasizes the reduction of
poverty and regional disparities in access to social and infrastructure services, accelerating human
resource development to contribute to social and economic development, and improvements in public
sector management and institutional capacity. TETP has provided increased coverage of education
service delivery to an increased number of the outer atolls, strengthened institutional capacity to
provide services, and addressed various skill shortages in the local work force to boost economic
development.

Design and Implementation: The design of the project is relevant, reflecting proper diagnosis and
plans to meet the above development priorities. Capacity building through training, on-the-job
experience, and provision of needed facilities and materials have been important for institutional
strengthening at both central and atoll levels. However, while coverage of services has improved
dramatically, especially access to secondary education in outer atolls, the quality of the services
trying to keep up with this expansion is mixed. The Bank's implementation assistance was
responsive to changing needs, including the need to extend time to complete fellowship activities,
and support after the devastation of the tsunami in December 2004.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO Objective 1: Improve education quality and efficiency
PDO Indicators: (1) Increased number of secondary school students taking and achieving pass level
in national certificate examination at grades 10 and 12, by gender and location (linked to PDO 2,
but reported in this section). (2) Increased learning achievement levels based on national assessment
at grades 4 and 7 of mathematics, and one other subject. (3) Increased transition rate from primary
to secondary education, by gender and location. (4) Increased student teacher ratio.

There has been substantial progress made towards the outcome of improved classroom instruction,
which in turn has partially impacted the learning achievement of students. TETP assisted in
providing a strong foundation for developing system capacity and facilities needed for quality
improvement and learning, notably in two key areas. First is the development of staff and system
capacity to produce and deliver needed services in teacher training, curriculum, textbooks, school
monitoring and a student examination and assessment system. Second is the use of school monitoring,
research and examination/assessment results as well as parental/community involvement to evaluate


                                                 8

aspects of the school learning environment and to begin to make needed changes to improve student
learning. School-based supervision has resulted in some cases of promoting effective teachers out of
needed classroom teaching posts. Despite this, these are important first steps in extending access to
quality secondary schooling in the atolls where current levels of student enrollment and learning
achievement would otherwise have been drastically curtailed.

Much progress has also been made to increase the number of secondary school students taking and
passing the national certificate examinations at grade 10 and grade 12. Total numbers of students
passing the O-level (Grade 10) and A-level (Grade 12) examinations substantially increased during
the project period (217% and 272.7% respectively from 1999 to 2005). No significant issues of
gender disparity at the primary and secondary levels were evident. Also, as a result of facilities
expansion in the atolls, more opportunities became available to sit for the O- level and A-level
examinations in locations other than Male'. In 1999, O-levels were available in Male' (1,197 students
participated) and across 17 atolls (821 students), and A-level examinations were only available in
Male' (198 students). By the project end, O-level examinations were available in Male' (2,715
students) and across 21 atolls (4,951 students), and A-levels were available in Male' (709) as well as
three of the atolls (122 students). While all these results are impressive, the percentage change of
students passing the O-level and A-level examinations, dropped from 25% to 20.8%, and from
44.4% to 39.4%, respectively, in 1999 to 2005, with the exception of female A-levels. These showed
an increase of 23% over the period 1999-2005. Also, with only 20.8% of students who actually take
the O-level examinations passing (and 39.4% for A-levels), most students are left without a relevant
preparatory education/qualification under the current system. MOE is taking steps now to rectify this
situation.

At the primary level, based on results from the national assessment of 2003, learning achievement
levels are mixed. In mathematics for grade 4 and grade 7, results were reasonable against examiner
expectations, but lower than expected in English. This was the first assessment using competencies,
and teachers and students alike were still adjusting to this new policy. No comparable data for trends
are yet available. Many of the component outcomes achieved under the project were new reforms
(i.e. improved quality of teacher education programs, teachers trained to expected standards, an
increased supply of national teachers, curriculum more consistent with learning needs of students,
and assessment instruments used to monitor student progress and to direct student instruction) and so
longer time was needed for these to have a stronger impact on learning. Quality reforms such as these
also have a human side that requires greater time for teachers, students, parents, and officials to
change their thinking, expectations and actions.

The mixed learning results should be considered in the context of the observations stated in Section
2.1. This regards the overly ambitious expectation to show increased learning achievement at all
levels of the education system at a time of rapid expansion.

The transition rate from primary to lower secondary schooling, increased from nearly 61% in 2000 to
66% in 2004, and to 88% in 2005 when the automatic promotion policy was implemented and extra
classrooms were provided. While the new automatic promotion policy was still meant to ensure that
students had reached a certain level of learning proficiency before being promoted to the next grade,
this has not been always consistently carried out, resulting in larger numbers of students being
promoted in the first years of its implementation, than possibly should have occurred.

Unfortunately, the STRs continued to deteriorate during the project period from 20.8 in 2000 to
17.3:1 in 2005 because of changing demographic factors. This decrease added considerable burden to


                                                9

the overall costs of education service delivery. The target of 27:1 could not be achieved. In January
2005 it was dropped as a legal covenant and objective of the project.

PDO 2: Increase equitable access
PDO Indicators: Enrollments by level, by gender and by location in target atolls increased.

There has been high achievement made towards this objective. The number of secondary school
students (females and males) who had access to educational opportunities has increased, especially
away from Male' and closer to their atoll home bases. The gross enrollment rate (GER) for lower
secondary schools was 118% (females, 126%; males 110% exceeding the target of 67% (females
73%) by project closure in 2005. The total number of students enrolled was 28,646 (females 14,973
or 52.3%). Similarly, the project goal to increase the higher secondary school GER to 8% (females
7%) was also exceeded with progress being 11.5% (females 11.9%, males 11.9%). The total number
of students enrolled in higher-secondary was 1,549 (females 934).

There was a significant participation of females and males in schooling (as noted above) as well as
impressive increases in enrollment in the atolls. While secondary school enrollment in the Maldives
over the project period between 2000 and 2005 increased by 204%, the capital Male' increased only
132 %. Lower and higher secondary enrollment grew much faster in the atolls, as intended by the
project. While the Maldives as a whole has increased lower secondary school enrollment by 57%,
with Male' witnessing an increase of 11%, the ten project focus atolls have seen an increase in
lower secondary school enrollment of 133% on average, with one atoll (Raa) increasing its
enrollment by over 340% (see Table 2B:1 in Annex 2). Enrollment in lower secondary schools was
14,531 (45% in atolls) in 1999 and increased to 28,646 students by 2005 (65% in atolls). Enrollment
in higher secondary was 457 in 1999 (0% in atolls) and it increased to 1,549 in 2005, (around 20% in
the atolls.

Enrollments expanded quickly partly as a result of investments in the construction and upgrading of
atoll facilities (including classrooms, science and computer laboratories, libraries, toilets, furniture,
teaching materials, library book etc), as well as the training of 30 teachers and headmasters,
especially for the 10 project atolls. The expansion of the Faculty of Education teacher upgrading
program to the Atolls, with five teacher education centers outside of Male' has been a key change.
Evidence collected from stakeholders indicates growth in enrollment to be due to the creation of
good school facilities under the project. This has further generated demand for education. In some
atolls, families accommodate children from neighboring islands at nominal or no charges to enable
them to study in the local school.

These achievements were largely possible because of improvements to the infrastructure, physical
services and development of national staff and teacher training for 10 atolls in particular.
Overcrowding on Male' has been partially relieved by reduced parental demand and cost of sending
their children to Male'. It has also enabled more students to potentially provide additional sources of
revenue and employment on atolls after leaving school. An additional outcome has been an
increased pool of eligible candidates for teacher training, especially from the outer atolls.

PDO 3: Strengthen institutional capacity
PDO indicator: Improvement in availability of timely and valid data

There has been substantial progress made towards this objective. There is now an increased
availability of timely and valid data. Staff also began to use data to plan, manage and monitor the


                                                10

education system to help improve project effectiveness. Key elements included the strengthening of
the MOE's planning capacity through an improved education management information system
(EMIS), and strengthening the school supervisory and reporting mechanisms. The other important
element has been the improvement of the capacity of the PIU not only for the specific management
of the TETP, but also in the management of multilaterally supported multi-sectoral projects more
generally (This latter element is reported on in Section 5.2 (b))

The project made an important contribution in the form of setting up a core EMIS over the project
period to collect data on student enrollment and transition rates, and teachers by gender and location.
Since 2004, the MOE has been able to publish reliable annual education statistics. Some further
modification of EMIS is needed to also facilitate the collection of data on teachers' employment
history, teacher development activities, school facilities, higher education, examination results,
repetition rates, school supervision and student assessment to enable the system to be better used as a
policy-making tool. Given the distances and natural barriers between widely spread out schools, the
further development of the EMIS must address both the development of additional modules for data
collection and their linkages to schools.

Overall, the policy planning processes within the Ministry are good, but they are seriously under-
resourced. The few persons in the Ministry involved in policy-making and planning are also
responsible for a multitude of other tasks such as monitoring policy implementation, developing the
strategic plans, undertaking overall coordination, and well as providing Ministerial support. Frequent
transfers are also common. The lack of ability to maintain a critical mass of trained personnel to
undertake key tasks is a major threat to the proper functioning and sustainability of programs.

Regarding school supervision, a pilot project was instituted to assess a sample of schools across the
country and a report produced in April 2004 on the general school situation. This tool was very
important. With suitable modifications in terms of scale and scope, it should be institutionalized and
implemented on a regular basis with every primary and secondary school being reviewed every 2 or
3 years. This together with the National Assessment would provide a rolling baseline of information
on the schools across the whole country.

PDO 4: Train qualified nationals for the labor force
PDO Indicators: (1) Number of national professionals in the labor force increased. (2) Number of
national teachers by gender and location increased.

There has been substantial progress made towards this objective. There has been an increased
number of the national labor force with professional skills. This has reduced critical skill gaps in the
public and private sector, which has had considerable benefits in terms of impacting human resource
development. There has also some reduction on dependence on expatriate staff in some technical
areas, although this dependence remain high with teachers due to rapid expansion of the education
system. Through the in-country courses at the Faculty of Management and Computing (FMC) a total
of 19 staff undertook longer training, (one training was consequently terminated), six Master's
degrees, six undergraduate degrees and two certificate courses which have now been completed. One
diploma is still ongoing. Courses were mostly in business, finance, computing and management. The
FMC was successful in increasing enrolments, especially for long-term accredited programs from
2002-2005, by instituting several measures including revising fees to make courses more affordable,
increasing numbers of courses available in the evenings, promoting courses in three regional
campuses, and offering one year certification courses (see Annex 7, Table 4 for enrollment details).



                                               11

During the project period, there were also 321 overseas fellowship receivers, 312 of these being from
the public sector. Key areas of specialization included education (57%) accounting/finance (7%) and
management (2%), IT (2%) and computer studies (2%). The remainder studies were in areas
including law, human resources, multimedia/web design, visual communications, development
studies, aqua culture, library science etc. Of these fellowship receivers 56% were women and
approximately 28% were from the atolls. All the atoll beneficiaries were in the field of
education/teaching. Out of the total public sector personnel, 98% successfully completed their
programs and only 2% failed to complete. The five private sector personnel all successfully
completed their studies (see Annex 7, Table 5). While the impact evaluation study was unable to
gather hard data on the performance of the trained employees, interviews indicated that trainees felt
more capable and confident in their technical duties.

The fellowship component envisaged the recovery of 15% of the fellowship costs (with 0% interest
rates) from public sector fellowship awardees, and 60% (with 5% interest rate) from private sector
fellowship awardees. As of August 2006, only 43% of the money due from fellowship awardees had
been recovered. This repayment rate is very low. A typical recipient whose scholarship costs just
under US$35,000 could repay his/her obligation with 9% of his/her annual salary over 12 years,
even if they got the least paying of the jobs available on return (e.g. as a local primary school teacher
with a degree). Clearly improvement on the recovery of funds should have been done with more
application and urgency. However, it is noted that the DHET has made good use of the funds it has
recovered under the first education and training project, the second project and the third by
depositing these funds into a "long-term tertiary education fund (LTEF)". The LTEF has awarded 75
zero percent interest rate loans to students for overseas study. This idea shows promise, and the
Ministry of Finance and Treasury is considering linking its contribution to the LTEF to recoveries
under the three education and training projects.

There was also an increase in the number of national teachers, from 3,326 in 1999 to 3,538 in 2005.
The percent of national teachers in Male' has remained about the same during the project period
(58%). The actual number of national secondary school teachers has increased significantly, from
200 local teachers in 1998 to 607 teachers in 2005, but so did the number of expatriate teachers,
which increased from 500 in 1998 to 1,611 in 2005. So, the percentage of national teachers dropped
from 69% in 1999 to 63% in 2005.

By project end, 2,063 of total national teachers (1,462 females, 601 males) were trained, including
having a teacher qualification, not just graduates in a subject area. Of these 1,775 were trained
during the project period in preservice programs from the Faculty of Education (formerly ITE) within
the Maldives College of Higher Education. Untrained teachers were still a high 1,475 (967 female,
508 male). Inservice programs were very slow to begin under the project, but by project closure,
about 1,335 primary (target 1,500) and 1,885 secondary (target 300) school teachers were provided
some teacher inservice.

3.3 Efficiency
The following is a summary of the cost-benefit analysis provided in Annex 3.

Enhanced Equitable Access to Secondary Education: Under the assumption that secondary education
graduates benefiting from the project earned 30% more than primary education graduates, the net
present value attributed to this component is US$ 12.7 million.




                                                12

Teacher Costs: The fall in STR all over Maldives, in Male' and in the Atolls (in 2005 the STRs
were 17.4, 18.6 and 16.9, respectively), has added considerable cost to the salary budget i.e. in
the lower secondary school sector which has seen the biggest increases in enrollment (97%) and
teachers (151%), the decline in STR from 18 to 14 between 1999-2005 has added approximately
33% to the salary budget of the lower secondary school sector. Also, expatriate teachers cost
between two and three times as much as local teachers in salary and allowances. This means that
the continuing dependence on expatriate teachers inflates the overall teacher salary budget by
between 30% and 40%.

Enhanced Overseas Skill Training: Even with the most conservative estimates, the net present value
to the Maldivian economy for each trained local individual, after accounting for the average cost of
foreign scholarship (US$ 35,000) and income forgone during training, is US$ 21,800 to replace a
foreign Primary School Teacher/ Principal. This rises to US$ 135,000 if the individual replaces a
Foreign Manager. The net present value of all 321 scholarships ranges between US$ 7 million and
US$ 43 million.

Increased education expenditures and ongoing sustainability: There are four main reasons for
increased expenditure that need to be considered for the purposes of ongoing investment
sustainability: (i) general salary increase of 33% in 2004; (ii) secondary school expansion in 2002-
2005 with a resultant increase in expatriate teachers; (iii) the conversion of 138 community schools
to government schools in 2005-06, with all their attendant costs; iv) and increasingly lower STRs
which added approximately 33% to the salary budget of the lower secondary school sector between
1999-2005. It is important that the Government of Maldives thinks carefully about alternative ways
of expanding secondary school education to the remaining islands, including perhaps distance
education. This is especially so since there has been a gradual and significant drop in the number of
primary school entrants in the past few years due to demographic changes. Currently there is a 100%
primary NER with a 21% drop in primary school students between 2000 and 2005. It can easily be
foreseen that within the next few years Maldives may well have an overcapacity in its secondary
school sector. In addition, efforts should be redoubled to train local teachers to replace foreign
teachers. Expatriate teachers cost between two and three times as much as local teachers in salary and
allowances. This means that the continuing dependence on expatriate teachers inflates the overall
teacher salary budget by between 30%-40%.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Objective                                                             Relevance Efficacy            Efficiency Outcome
1. Improve education quality through enhanced teacher education
and training, curriculum textbooks and student assessment system. High                Substantial


2. Increase equitable access in outer atolls through provision of      High           High
classrooms, materials and teacher training
3. Strengthened efficiency, management and implementation              High           Substantial   Substantial* Satisfactory

capacity of national education system through training and EMIS
development
4. Trained and qualified nationals for the labor force through         High           Substantial
in-country training, overseas fellowships and labor market studies
* Rating based on alternative strategies that were considered, but is still difficult to assess with certainty without further data
on learning benefits of interventions and longer term changes experienced.




                                                           13

The satisfactory rating takes into account the fact that, despite mixed results on the quality
component, and little progress in the cost-recovery of the fellowship scheme, there has nevertheless
been substantial achievement of most of the key project development objectives i.e. dramatic
improvement in overall coverage of services provided to increased numbers of students, solid
development of a foundation for developing some of the system inputs for quality improvement and
management capacity, and substantial strengthening of skills in the labor force. Even though it was
not possible by the time of project closure to measure the longer term benefits of these investments,
these are expected to have a positive impact on human resource and economic development if the
investments can be sustained. The criteria of relevance, efficacy and efficiency were, for the most
part, substantially met.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Discussions with parents showed that families were positively impacted by the increase in atoll
facilities. This was particularly so regarding the health and welfare of girls, and general safety of
children from the atolls, since they no longer needed to be housed on Male' with strangers or other
family members.

The one area that was not taken up in the ICR review, but which surfaced throughout many of the
discussions, is the need for civil service reform to restore clear links between performance and pay,
as well as overall transparent management of the civil service.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

See Annex 6 for findings.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

Despite significant project achievements, especially in inputs for capacity building, and increased
enrollments in secondary education, there remain several concerns for the ongoing education system
which, if not addressed adequately, may result in project outcomes not being sustained, and will
certainly pose a major challenge for any proposed further expansion of the education system. These
include: (i) lack of a critical mass of staff able to be retained to undertake key educational functions,
including well-trained local teachers; (ii) a high level of dependence on consultants and technical
assistance which, without a continuing project, will be difficult to sustain; (iii) the fiscal
sustainability and cost effectiveness of educational service delivery; and (iv) lack of clarity of how
the various Ministries and their departments coordinate and are held accountable for the targets of the
complementing segments of the education reforms.




                                                 14

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA worked closely with GOM to prepare the project, making conscious efforts to consult with
stakeholders from the education sector as well as the ministries. Project preparation took into
account lessons learned from the two previous projects, the emerging labor market needs of the
developing economy, and the priority for human resource development. The design of the projects
sought to complement and expand further the work from the previous two projects.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision had been rated satisfactory by the Quality of Supervision Assessment
(QSA7) group. Specifically, the team was commended for requesting the Borrower to complete the
inputs of the future ICR well in advance of the formal closing date, and for identifying the
sustainability issues and for encouraging the Borrower to assume a greater share and a more
sustainable financing of the activities. The ICR team agrees with the QAG in its assessment that the
project team recognized problems at an early stage and took the right measures to ensure that
problems were managed so that development objectives would be achieved. ICR preparation was
begun early in order to capture knowledge in a timely fashion, while the fellowship component was
kept open to allow it to complete. Through a proactive dialogue with the Borrower, the Bank team
was able to ensure that Government would continue to finance project activities to support the
ongoing program. The team also effectively managed the reallocation of needed project funds to the
tsunami emergency in a timely manner and with little cost to the overall program. The project team,
with the support of Bank management, also managed the issues associated with the STR legal
covenant that subsequently was dropped as an objective. The one shortfall was an inadequate
understanding of the loan situation leading to a shortfall in the funds to meet commitments made in
the project which did result in difficulties for project implementation in the final stages of project
implementation. The difficulty was resolved.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team flexibly responded to the needs of the country and the education sector, working
closely together on the design and implementation of the project. Good relationships established with
GOM made it possible to communicate from a distance and to resolve promptly any procurement and
implementation issues. There was solid team work throughout the project and proactive, positive
dialogue with stakeholders.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                 15

The commitment and ownership of the GOM along with its willingness to learn from the experience
of the previous projects and to place priority on national needs had a strong impact on project design.
GOM's ongoing political will facilitated project implementation. This was particularly important in
the time leading up to the Mid-Term Review when the project was assessed in problem status. There
were serious delays in several technical activities, high turnover of qualified staff in the PIU, and
communication between the project executing agencies and the PIU needed improvement. However,
conscientious agreements were made to resolve implementation blockages. Improved administrative
arrangements were introduced, including the transfer of the PMC (formerly PIU) from MHREL to
MOE. GOM showed its ongoing commitment by providing financing to bridge the support for the
overseas fellowships before additional financing was forthcoming from IDA. The consolidated effort
of all agencies continued so that within six months, the project was back on track. GOM was
responsive to IDA's suggestions even with regard to issues that may not have been politically
popular, such as fellowship cost-recovery. It was proactive when. GoM was also receptive to new
procurement and administrative procedures that were introduced by the Bank.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The PIU/PMC had sound performance with its tasks for the overall coordination and oversight of the
project, the procurement of goods and services, the management of the project accounts, liaison with
the various implementation units with the MOE, and monitoring the progress of the project. The
young, dedicated staff, under the dynamic leadership of the first Project Director, maintained sound
records and documentation. Even with the change of PIU leadership later in the project, the
administrative procedures put in place continued well. While there were some difficulties when staff
were out of the office on training, and there was high turnover of staff, the PIU maintained sufficient
continuity and efficiency in handling different project components, including the complex demands
related to implementing the fellowship scheme. However, it could have been more proactive in
implementing the cost-recovery aspect of the fellowship scheme. Moving this cost-recovery function
to the DHET was a good decision for all concerned.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government showed high commitment and readiness to implement the project. Sufficient staff
continuity and attentiveness to various issues ensured that most of the work was carried out promptly
and efficiently. The Borrower ensured quality of preparation and implementation, complied with
covenants and agreements, and ensured the project reached its development objectives.

6. Lessons Learned

     In small countries, projects often involve multiple ministries and limited personnel to carry
        out key tasks. Projects can still be successfully implemented when there is a strong
        stakeholder commitment to reform and when these is the political and administrative
        commitment to set high-quality standards, to monitor progress, and to make flexible changes
        as necessary (Sections 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 5.2).

     It is important to locate the unit that coordinates implementation under the major
        implementing Ministry, so that the senior official/s with that Ministry are able to provide the



                                                16

       necessary authority for the project to progress and to avoid implementation delays. (Sections
       2.2 and 5.2(a) ).

     Quality reforms and those involving institutional capacity building tend to need extended
       periods of time to firmly take root in changed thinking and practice, and therefore to have an
       attributable effect on staff and student learning. This is often beyond the typical project
       period of five years, so learning achievement expectations need to be realistic for what can
       actually be achieved during a project period and what is planned for beyond this (Section 2.1,
       3.2).

     Regular and functional school-level supervision, along with parental/community involvement
       to provide feedback on aspects of the learning environment (e.g. textbooks), are important to
       make needed changes to improve student learning (Section 3.2, PDO 1).

     From the experience of the Maldivian scholarship recovery scheme, lessons learned include
       the need for: (i) transparency to ensure that any subsidy element is targeted at the most
       deserving students; (ii) a carefully designed interest rate and subsidy policy in place to
       protect the long term financial viability of the scheme; (iii) wide awareness of the student
       loan program; (iv) efficient institutional management of key processes (e.g. evaluation and
       selection of beneficiaries, academic monitoring, loan collection, financial management)
       based on an adequate computerized management information system; and (v) an efficient
       collection mechanism, including an appropriate legal framework to minimize default
       (Sections 2.1; 2.2; 3.2, PD0 4; 5.2 (b) ).

     Recruitment from the outset of qualified staff is essential for ensuring strong and consistent
       project implementation progress. For example, the project was handicapped with high
       procurement staff turnover, especially in the early years of implementation. Similarly,
       quicker action could have been taken regarding cost-recovery under the fellowship scheme
       (Section 5.2 (b)).


Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower provided an update of data for Annex 1. It also provided its own detailed ICR
in Annex 7. As there were no further comments received from the implementing agencies, the
Borrower indicated proceeding with the report submission.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Stakeholder consultations are outlined in Annex 6.




                                              17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                               Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
Components                                                           Percentage of
                               (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                  millions)          Appraisal

IMPROVE EDUCATION
QUALITY                                 4.80                4.93     103%

INCREASE EQUITABLE
ACCESS                                  6.20                4.21     68%

STRENGTHEN
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                  1.30                1.53     118%
AND EFFICIENCY
TRAIN QUALIFIED
NATIONALS FOR THE LABOR                 7.40                7.05     95%
FORCE


Total Baseline Cost                   19.70                18.37     93%

Physical Contingencies                  0.00                0.00     0.00

Price Contingencies                     0.00                0.00     0.00
Total Project Costs                   19.70                18.37     93%
Project Preparation Fund                0.00                0.00     .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00     .00
Total Financing Required              19.70                18.37     93%




(b) Financing

                                               Appraisal     Actual/
                                                             Latest
Source of Funds                   Type of      Estimate                   Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing (USD           Estimate     Appraisal
                                               millions)     (USD
                                                             millions)
Borrower                                       2.10          1.60         67%
International Development
Association (IDA)                              17.60         16.77        95%




                                          18

        Annex 2. Outputs by Component

        Two sets of tables are reported here for additional information on the project's progress to
        support the discussion in Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes. The first table (2a) reports on
        progress against the component activities. The second table (2b) reports on further details of
        progress against project indicators.

        Project Progress by Component
        The following section reports on various subcomponents against the original project targets.
        However, it is difficult to capture the organizational and human elements that operate within and
        between these subcomponents which are so critical to bringing about learning change at the
        classroom and system level. This is especially important when seeking to improve educational
        quality. The information in the matrix below does not report on these dimensions. Sufficient it is
        to say that the Third Party Supervision Report (2004) recommended further development of:
             level of ownership of the various policies and processes by all stakeholders in the
                 education sector
             level of mutual confidence in the work and capacity of the various stakeholders
             presence of clear channels for information flow and information sharing
             presence of formal and semi-formal processes for coordination and cooperation among
                 stakeholders
             clear, identifiable and achievable set of standards, benchmarks, and strategic objectives,
                 including targets for all elements in the education system
             a quality monitoring framework in operation

        Table 2A: Project Progress by Component
Component/                 Project            Target Output/               Achievement/
Subcomponent/              Activities         Beneficiary                  Actual Output            Outcomes/Impact
Objective

                                                                                                    Teacher educators   Raised
Improve education           Upgrading                                                               and teachers        learning
qualitythrough              teacher educator  Primary School Level:        18 Dip Ed. (100%),       trained to expected achievement
(a)Teacher Education and    skills at the     18 primary school teacher    including 16 specialists standards,          levels for
Training                    Institute of      educators to Diploma of      (100%)                   especially a large  some subjects
                            Teacher           Ed. (Dip.Ed) including 16                             percentage of       and some
Strengthening primary and   Education (ITE),  inservice specialists in the                          untrained and       students at the
secondary teacher education later referred to atolls.                                               under-qualified     primary,
programs                    as Faculty of                                  4 B.Ed. (100%) with      teachers in the     lower and
                            Education (FE)    4 upgraded to B.Ed           overseas fellowship      atolls              upper
                            at the Maldives   through overseas                                                          secondary
                            College of        fellowship.                                           Quality of          levels (see
                            Higher                                                                  classroom           Annex 2b for
                            Education                                      9 at Bachelor's level    instruction         further
                            (MCHE)            Secondary School Level       (150%)                   improved (linked    results)
                                              upgrade 12 national          30 at Master's level     to changes in
                                              teachers to be trained as    (500%)                   curriculum
                                              future teacher educators (6  All 39 with overseas     revision, textbook
                                              to bachelor's degree and 6   fellowships              provision and
                                              to master's degree                                    examination
                                                                                                    improvement)


                            Staff development 300 secondary teachers       300 (100%)               Quality of
                            in core subject                                                         instruction in



                                                               19

                       areas                                                                     teacher education
                                                                                                 programs
                                                                                                 improved.
                       Upgrading
                       teacher facilities 5 classrooms, 2 labs,        In 2002 only 2 diploma
                       and programs at    offices, study rooms etc.    courses offered and 0
                       the ITE                                         bachelor level courses,
                                          - develop curriculum,        but now 4 diploma
                                          teaching and learning        courses and 4 bachelor
                                          materials for the revised    courses. The advanced
                                          program, and upgrade         Certificate of Teaching
                                          facilities                    Primary (started in
                                                                       2002) is offered in five
                                                                       atolls for inservice and
                                                                       preservice teachers

Component/subcomp.     Activities         Target to be achieved        Outputs                   Outcomes              Impact
                       Provide atoll-     1,150 primary school         1,885 (164%)              Teachers trained to   Learning
                       based inservice    teachers                     59% female, an special    expected              achievement
                       teacher training                                concentration from atoll  standards, but little is likely to
                                                                       schools                   ongoing support to    adversely
                                                                                                 continue to build     affected if
                                          additional facilities,       Atoll based inservice     confidence and        appropriate
                                          educational materials, and   facilities established in skills  a larger     ongoing
                                          equipment etc.               2 atolls, with 3 more     quality assurance     instructional
                                                                       considered                process also          support not
                                                                                                 needed.               provided to
                                                                                                                       teachers
                       Upgrade            110 primary teachers, the    135 (123%)                Atoll based
                       untrained          majority of which are to     72% female                inservice facilities
                       primary teachers   be female                    Significant progress      established
                       through bridging                                made
                       program to meet
                       O-level
                       equivalent
                       Support staff      -Link institution staff      Completed                 School supervision
                       development for    visits, and vice versa                                 knowledge
                       school             - professional                                         improved
                       supervisors and    development workshops in
                       ITE/FE staff.      teacher supervision and
                                          leadership skills
                       Expand             Increase annual output of    Total of 239 from 2001-   Improved quality      There remains
                       preservice         lower secondary school       2005 with annual          and supply of         a significant
                       secondary          teachers from 30 to about    average of 60             national teachers     dependence
                       teachers           80                                                                           on expatriate
                       education          Senior secondary             Total of 24 from 2001-    While the number of teachers at the
                       program            education program            2005                      national teachers has secondary
                                          introduced in year 5 with                              increased, the        levels leading
                                          annual output of 20-25 to    Overall numbers of        overall % of          to a drain on
                                          be offered jointly with link national teachers has     national teachers has financial
                                          institutions                 increased (3,326 in       dropped from 69%      resources.
                                          -                            1999 to 3,538 in 2005)    in 1999 to 63% in
                                                                                                 2005 (the number of
                                                                       The number of national    expatriate teachers
                                                                       secondary school          has increased from
                                                                       teachers has increased    500 in 1998 to about
                                                                       significantly (from 200   1,611 in 2005).
                                                                       in 1998 to 607 in 2005)
Improve education      Review existing    As per activities            (i) Revised outcome       Slow development      Progress
quality through        curricula                                       focused curriculum for    of outcome based      towards sense
(b) Curriculum and                                                     primary grades and        curriculum and        of national
textbook development;  Provision of                                    textbooks for Grades 1-   related support       culture and



                                                            20

improve primary school     materials and                                7 in English,              materials            identity
curriculum and textbooks   equipment for the                            Mathematics, Science,      consistent with
as well as developing      curriculum                                   Environmental studies,     learning needs of
textbook publishing        development unit                             Social studies, Dhivehi    students
capacity;                                                               and Islam, - Given the
                          Train staff in                                high failure rates in      English difficulties
                          curriculum                                    Mathematics and            still remain for
                          development and                               English, these became      students
                          evaluation                                    priority areas. (ii)
                                                                        Revision of the
                          Provide TA and                                National Curriculum        Still not sufficient
                          training in                                   Framework with the         reading materials
                          publishing                                    assistance of a            in Dhivehi or
                                                                        Technical Committee        English in school
                          Promote reading                               (iii) Materials and        libraries and the
                          standards                                     equipment provided (iv)    general
                                                                        4 international            community.
                                                                        consultants hired to
                                                                        provide training. (v)
                                                                        development of child-
                                                                        friendly textbooks; (vi)
                                                                        development of 28
                                                                        supplementary readers;
                                                                        (vii) development of
                                                                        local reading material;
                                                                        (v) a series of training
                                                                        sessions were
                                                                        conducted for
                                                                        curriculum developers
                                                                        to develop skills in
                                                                        preparing an outcome
                                                                        based curriculum, and
                                                                        educational publishing;
                                                                        and (viii) institutional
                                                                        capacity development
                                                                        for writing and
                                                                        publishing of
                                                                        educational materials.

Improve education          Support           Examiners trained in the  Completed                   Improved             Improved
quality through            development of    Secondary School                                      assessment           monitoring of
(c) Student Assessment and policy for a new  Certificate (SSC) and      Shortly after project      instruments          student
Public Examinations        secondary public  Higher Secondary School    inception, the Department                       progress
                           examination       certificate to reform      of Public Examinations     Greater clarity of
                           system;           current method of          unexpectedly made a major  questioning in
                                             assessment                 policy shift and opted for
                                                                        University of Cambridge    Dhivehi and
                                                                        Local Examinations         Islamic Studies
                                                                        Syndicate (UCLES) to       exam papers
                                                                        offer O-level examinations
                                                                        from November 2002.)       Changes needed in
                                                                                                   curriculum syllabi
                                                                                                   also
                           Develop and       Grades 4 and 7            National Assessment         Timely and valid     Improved
                           conduct national  mathematics, and one      process established         data available on    planning
                           assessments of    other subject area.                                   learning             capability to
                           student learning                            The results of the pilot    achievement from     make targeted
                           in select primary NA to be held in years 2, test administered in 2001 Male' and three        interventions
                           grades.           3, 4 and 5 of project.    and 2002, and the main      other atolls.
                                                                       assessment conducted in
                                                                       2003 are not comparable.
                                                                       A new national
                                                                       assessment will be
                                                                       conducted in 2007 which


                                                               21

                                                                             will enable comparison
                                                                             of learning achievement.
                                                                             The assessment included
                                                                             mathematics, English
                                                                             Reading and English
                                                                             Writing tests.

                                                                             (Actual learning results
                                                                             are reported in Annex
                                                                             2b)

                                                Training of staff            1 training at Master's
                                                                             level

Improve educational quality Efficiency          National rate= 61%                                    Transition rates
and efficiency              cross-cuts          Atolls = 42%                                          increased to 88%
                            several of the                                                            (79% in atolls).
                            project                                                                   see annex 2a for
                            activities, but is                                                        more details
                            reported here                                                             linked with quality
                                                                                                      improvements
Component/                  Activities          Target to be achieved        Outputs                  Outcomes             Impact
Subcomp.
Increase equitable access   Expanding access - 1 AEC in each of 4 atolls     Completed (100%)         Secondary            School
                            by constructing     (20 classrooms, 8 science    4 atolls AECs: Haa       education            provision
                            and upgrading       and computer labs, 3         Alif, Alif Dhaal, Thaa,  increased and more   overcrowding
                            facilities at the   libraries, 8 store-rooms,    Madhrasathul Ifthithah   prevalent in the     on Male'
                            Atoll Education     toilets, teaching materials,                          atolls and closer to eased.
                            Centers (AECs) in equipment etc.)                Equipment: Physics,      student's home
                            each of four        - additional 6 AECs          Chemistry, Biology,      bases                More students
                            atolls;             ( books, materials,          Fisheries Science, and   (see annex 2a for    participating
                            Providing science laboratory equipment,          sports equipment         actual results)      in secondary
                            equipment and       library equipment and AV     supplied to 10 AECs                           education
                            laboratories at the facilities)                  including 4 new AECs     Equity for students  from atolls.
                            AECs in ten atolls                                                        on these outer       More students
                                                                             Furniture for teaching   atolls increased     will be able to
                                                                             and management                                provide
                                                                             supplied to 10 AECs                           additional
                                                                             and 21 cluster schools.                       sources of
                                                                                                                           revenue and
                                                                             Library books and other                       employment
                                                                             educational materials                         on atolls.
                                                                             supplied to 10 AECs
                                                                             and 21 cluster schools.                       Increased
                                                                             Reading schemes also                          pool of
                                                                             supplied to all schools                       eligible
                                                                             (other than Male')                            candidates for
                                                                                                                           teachers from
                                                                                                                           atolls.
                            Training teachers   30 teachers and              Completed (more than     Teacher and head
                            and headmasters     headteachers (at least 7     double the target)       teacher knowledge
                            of these atoll      from each of the 4 new                                and effectiveness
                            schools.            AECs in B.Ed and/or Dip      30 AEC staff B.Ed.       increased
                                                Ed. Additional training      3 AEC staff at Master's
                                                also in computer skills,     30 AEC teachers
                                                information technology       trained in Dip in Middle
                                                and library science.         School Teaching in Sri
                                                                             Lanka
                                                                             11 AEC teachers
                                                                             trained in Advanced
                                                                             Certificate in Secondary
                                                                             Teaching in Sri Lanka.



                                                                  22

Strengthen institutional  Develop an          (as per activity)         Core software             Increased              Improved
capacity and efficiency   Education                                     developed and             availability of timely project and
                          Management                                    distributed to schools    and valid data         system
                          Information                                   with training. Data                              effectiveness
                          System (EMIS)                                 from 345 schools          Improved planning
                          and expand                                    currently available.      and implementation
                          information links                                                       of education
                          to Atolls                                     Statistical Education     programs
                                                                        Year Book 2004
                                                                        compiled using this
                                                                        EMIS, but data limited
                                                                        to student and teacher
                                                                        enrolments, gender,
                                                                        regions.
                          Support the         (as per activity)         All civil works           Strengthened
                          Project                                       completed after initial   technical and
                          Implementation      Included 2 long-term      delays in procurement     management
                          Unit (PIU) /PMC     overseas trainings in     due to understaffing and  capacity of PMC
                          including training, accounting, and 9 short   coordination problems.
                          equipment and       term trainings            National Construction
                          construction        (procurement, accounting, Supervisor hired.         Efficiency improved
                          advisors for two    human resources and                                 with reorganization,
                          outer atolls.       project management)       All goods procured and    but enormous extra
                                                                        distributed for effective work load now on
                                                                        functioning of            procurement staff of
                                                                        PIU/PMC, MOE, DPE,        PIU/PMC
                                                                        EDC, FE, FMC, AECs
                                                                        and 21 cluster schools.
                                                                        The responsibility for
                                                                        distributing goods was    Training enabled
                                                                        transferred from MOE      staff to work more
                                                                        to PIU/PMC in             independently later
                                                                        November 2003             in the project.

                                                                        PIU/PMC expanded
                                                                        from 9 to 14 staff, and
                                                                        all training (except 1
                                                                        accounting training
                                                                        which is still ongoing)
                                                                        completed.
                          Monitor             27:1 both in Male' and in National STR 17.4:1       STR objective          No cost-
                          proposed            atolls                                              dropped from           savings to
                          increase in STRs                              Male' 18.6:1              project                education
                                                                        Atolls 16.9: 1(but with                          system
                                                                        wide disparity between
                                                                        atolls (10:1-22:1)
Train qualified nationals Expansion of in-    Expand business training  Reduced provision of      Expansion of in-       Strengthening
for the labor force       country skills      programs.                 short-term courses and    country post-          the
(US$6.5 million) through: training                                      expansion of long-term    secondary business     IMA/FMC
(a) In-country skill                          Upgrade IMA/FMC           accredited courses        training through       was highly
training                                      management and courses    resulting in increased    strengthening          significant in
                                              to meet accreditation     expansion of enrolment    FMC, only              the human
                                              criteria                  in long term courses      partially              resources
                                                                        (see Annex 7, Table 4     successful.            development
                                                                        for details)                                     strategy of the
                                                                                                  Curricula reviewed     country.
                                                                        Further expansion         and allows 2 degree
                                                                        limited by the need for   courses. Additional Raised
                                                                        greater capacity and      courses, revised       professional
                                                                        resources to implement    marketing strategies skill levels of
                                                                        long-term courses.        and diversified        the national
                                                                                                  dissemination of       labor force
                                                                                                  course information


                                                               23

                                           TA and training of IMA       Trainings completed:      have held to
                                           staff                        17 long term (1 was       increase enrolments
                                                                        terminated due to         (see Annex 7,
                                           Training for 2               failure of candidate)     Table 11 for
                                           management and 2             6 Master levels           details)
                                           financial staff, and support 4 under-graduate degree
                                           12 IMA staff to degree       1 CIMA
                                           and post-graduate degree     2 Diploma and 1 CIMA
                                           levels                       are still yet to complete
                                                                        (are expected to
                                                                        complete)

                                                                        All equipment,
                                                                        educational
                                                                        materials/library books
                                                                        etc for FMC completed.

                                                                        No information on cost-
                                           Cost recovery up to 30%      recovery available
                                           for in-country programs      except from 2 FMC
                                                                        staff awarded overseas
                                                                        fellowships.
(b) Overseas Fellowships Support overseas                               321 fellowships taken     Increase in number  Critical skill
                         post-secondary                                 up (Of the 331            of national labor   gaps achieved
                         professional                                   trainings, 8 were         force obtaining     to replace
                         training to                                    terminated and 2 were     professional skills expatriate
                         qualified                                      not completed by end of                       workers,
                         nationals in the                               project). Of the 321, 63                      including in
                         public and private                             were for graduate                             atolls.
                         sectors.                                       programs (20% and 258
                                                                        (80%) for
                                                                        undergraduate
                                                                        programs. The major
                                                                        areas of specialization
                                                                        were teaching/education
                                                                        (57%),
                                                                        accounting/finance
                                                                        (7%), management
                                                                        (5%), IT (2%) and
                                                                        computer studies (2%)
                                                                        and the balance (26%)
                                                                        for varied
                                                                        specializations like law,
                                                                        human resources,
                                                                        multimedia/web design,
                                                                        visual communications,
                                                                        development studies,
                                                                        aquaculture, library
                                                                        sciences. (see Annex 7,
                                                                        Table 5 for details).

                                           75% of scholarships for      56% females, 28% from
                                           public sector, 25% for       atolls (about 50% of the
                                           private                      total teaching/education
                                                                        specialization
                                                                        beneficiaries were from
                                                                        the atolls)

                                                                        97% public sector, 3 %
                                                                        private sector




                                                             24

                                                         Cost recovery of 15% and              Only 43% of dues         Limited cost-           Limited cost
                                                         60% for the public and                recovered.               recovery.               recovery
                                                         private sectors, Private              TETP also supported      However,                constrains
                                                         sector required to pay                fellowship beneficiaries recovered funds         ability to fund
                                                         annual interest charge of             who begin study under    under ETP, SETP         ongoing
                                                         5% on outstanding loans               SETP and who did not     and TETP have           training, hire
                                                                                               complete by project      been deposited into     private sector
                                                                                               closure in December      a "long-term            instructors,
                                                                                               1999.                    tertiary education      pay
                                                                                                                        fund (LTEF)". The       competitive
                                                                                                                        LTEF has awarded        salaries to
                                                                                                                        75 zero percent         trainers, and
                                                                                                                        interest rate loans     supply
                                                                                                                        to students for         adequate
                                                                                                                        overseas study.         equipment to
                                                                                                                                                remain
                                                                                                                                                competitive.
                                                                                                                                                However the
                                                                                                                                                LTEF is
                                                                                                                                                promising to
                                                                                                                                                mitigate the
                                                                                                                                                above.
c) Studies                      Evaluation of                                                  All studies completed.   Third Party             Improved
                                the fellowship                                                 These include: Impact    Supervision report      planning and
                                program.                                                       Evaluation of the        particularly useful     implementatio
                                                                                               Fellowship Program;      to guide project.       n of education
                                Labor market                                                   Human Resource Needs                             programs
                                needs study.                                                   Study; Study on
                                                                                               Educational Quality,
                                Other studies                                                  Relevance and Equity;
                                                                                               Mid Term Evaluation
                                                                                               Study; Third Party
                                                                                               Supervision.

Table 2B: Project progress by indicators
Status of project development objective, as measured by the following outcome indicators
                   Baseline Value                                Progress to Date                                               End of Project Value
                   Number or text                          Dat Number of text                                           Date    Number of text

PDO Indicator
1. Increased       Number of Students taking the          1999 Number of Students taking the grade 10 exams in         09/30/    No exact percent of increase
number of          grade 10 exams in 1999:                       2005:                                                 2005     over baseline was defined as the
secondary school   National Total=2,018                          National Total=7,666                                           target for numbers of students
students taking    F=1,075                                       F=4,138                                                        taking and passing grade 10 and
and achieving pass M=943                                         M=3,483                                                        12 exams.
level in national
certificate        By location:                                  By location:
examinations at    Male'=1,197 (F=628; M=569)                    Male'=2,715 (F=1,1582; M=1133)
grades 10 and 12,  Atolls=821 (F=447; M=374)                     Atolls=4,951 (F=2,601; M= 2,350)
by gender and      (great variation across 17 atolls,            (great variation across 21 atolls, further details
location.          further details available)                    available)

                   Grade 10 (O level) pass rate in               Grade 10 (O level) pass rate in 2005
                   1999:
                   National Total= 504 (25%)                     National Total= 1,598 (20.8%)
                   F=222 (20.7% of total)                        F= 787 (18.8% of total)
                   M= 282 (29.9% of total)                       M= 811 (23.3% of total)

                   -------------------------------------         ------------------------------------------------
                   Number of students taking the                 Number of students taking the grade 12 exams in
                   grade 12 exams in 1999:                       2005:
                   National Total=198                            National Total=833
                   F=85                                          F=389
                   M=113                                         M=444




                                                                             25

                   Examinations only available in        By location:
                   Male'                                 Male'=709 (F=327; M=382)
                                                         Atolls: 122 (F=61; M=61)
                                                           Baa: 27 (F=9; M=18)
                                                           Seenu: 77 (F=46; M=31)
                                                           Haa Dhaalu:18 (F=6; M=12)
                   Grade 12 (A level) pass rate in       Grade 12 (A level) pass rate in 2005
                   1999:                                 National Total=328 (39.4%)
                   National Total= 88 (44.4%)            F=158
                   F=28 ( 32.9 %)                        M= 170
                   M= 60 (53.1%)
                                                         By location:
                                                         Male'=292 (41.2% of total)
                                                         F=144 (44%) M=148 (38.7%)
                                                         Atolls: 36 (F=14; M=22)
                                                           Baa: 7 (25.9%) F=0 (0%); M= 7 (38.9%)
                                                           Seenu: 19 (24.7%) F=11(23.9%); M=8 (25.8%)
                                                           Haa Dhaalu: 10 (55.6%) F=3 (50%); M=7(58.3%)

                                                         Comment on progress to date:
                                                         The project achieved a substantial increase in the
                                                         number of students taking the O= level and A=level
                                                         examinations (279.8 % and 320.7 % respectively over
                                                         baseline). While the total number of students passing
                                                         the O and A level examinations has increased (217%
                                                         and 272.7% respectively from 1999 to 2005), the
                                                         percentage change of students passing the O and A
                                                         level examinations has dropped (25% to 20.8% and
                                                         44.4% to 39.4% respectively from 1999 to 2005).
                                                         This is a phenomenon not uncommon with rapid
                                                         expansion. However, the % change of females passing
                                                         the A level showed an increase (23.3% from 1999 to
                                                         2005)
2. Increased       No national assessment system in 2000 The results of the pilot test administered in 2001 and 09/30/ No exact percent of increase
learning           place                                 2002, and the main assessment conducted in 2003 are     2005  defined as the target. The
achievement levels                                       not comparable. A new national assessment will be             emphasis was initially on
based on national                                        conducted in 2007 which will enable comparison of             assisting GOM to establish the
assessment of                                            learning achievement. The assessment included                 capacity to undertake such an
mathematics at                                           mathematics, English Reading and English Writing              assessment, and to establish a
grades 4 and 7                                           tests.                                                        baseline.

                                                         Results from the 2003 assessment (final report
                                                         completed in 2004) indicate:
                                                         Grade 4:
                                                         (i) math (N=1320)= mean performance 14.89 of 40
                                                         available marks: reasonable performance against
                                                         expectations
                                                         (ii) Eng reading (N=1313)= mean performance 6.51
                                                         of 23 available marks: low performance
                                                         (iii) Eng writing (N=1320) = mean performance 6.18
                                                         of 56 available marks: extremely low performance

                                                         Grade 7:
                                                         (1) Math (N=1328) =mean performance 16.93 of 39
                                                         available marks: reasonable performance against
                                                         expectations of examiners
                                                         (ii) Eng reading (N=1330)=mean performance 6.62 of
                                                         25 available marks: low performance
                                                         (iii) Eng Writing (N=1332) = mean 13.02 of 60
                                                         available marks: low and wide dispersion of
                                                         performance but better than Grade 4 writing.
                                                         The study on Education Quality and Equity
                                                         highlighted three main issues: (a) large percentage of
                                                         failures in grade 7 primarily due to difficulties with
                                                         English which is the medium of instruction, (b)
                                                         promotion of rote learning in the classrooms at the
                                                         expense of development of higher cognitive skills,
                                                         and (c) wide inequity in the quality of education
                                                         available in Male' compared with the atolls.




                                                                    26

Status of project development objective, as measured by the following outcome indicators
                   Baseline Value                          Progress to Date                                      End of Project Value
                   Number or text                     Date Number of text                                  Date  Number of text

PDO Indicator
3. Increased       National figures are reported     1999 National figures are reported in this table. 09/30/    Increased access to
enrolments by      in this table. The detailed             The detailed enrolment numbers by gender        2005  secondary education,
level, by gender   enrolment numbers by gender             and location for target atolls are presented          especially lower secondary.
and by location in and location for target atolls          in Table 2B:1 below.
targeted atolls    are presented in Table 2B:1
(NER = net         below.
enrolment rate,
GER gross          Primary School                          Primary school
enrolment rate)
                   NER total=98.7% (F=98%;                 NER total= 100% (F=100%; M= 100%).
                   M= 99%).
                                                           GER=123% (F=119.8%; M=126%)
                   GER total=119.8%(F=117%;
                   M= 122.6%)

                   Number of students=74,050               Number of students=57,873
                   (F= 36,203; M= 37,847)                  (F=27,667; M=30,206)

                   ---------------------------------       ---------------------------------------------
                   Lower secondary school                  Lower secondary school                                GER for lower secondary =
                                                                                                                 67%
                   NER total=28.2% (F=30.1%;               NER total=64.6% (F=70.7%; M=58.8 %)
                   M= 26.3 %)                                                                                    Female GER for lower
                                                           GER total=118% (F=126%; M=110.4%,)                    secondary = 73%
                   GER=64.7% (F= 67.5%; M=
                   62%;)                                   Number of students =28,646 (F=14, 973;
                                                           M=13673)
                   Number of students=14,531
                   (F=7,471; M= 7,060)

                   ---------------------------------       ---------------------------------------------
                   Higher secondary school                 Higher secondary school                               GER for higher secondary =
                                                                                                                 8%
                   NER total =1%                           NER total = 7.2% (F=7.8%; M= 6.7%,)
                                                                                                                 Female GER for higher
                   GER total =3.4%                         GER total =11.5% (F=11.9%; M=11.9%)                   secondary = 7%

                   Number of students =457                 Number of students= 1,549
                   (F=192; M=265)                          (F= 934; M =615)

4. Increased       National transition average       2000 2004 data (this was the last year before        2004   Improvement in transition
transition rate    from primary to secondary               automatic promotion on second attempt in              rate to lower secondary and
from primary to    education: 61%                          grade 7 was introduced)                               away from Male'.- from
secondary          (F=60%; M=61%,)                                                                               30% to 50%.
education by                                               National =66 % (F= 71%; M= 62%)
gender and by      Transition rate in atolls: 42%
location           (F=41%; M=42%;                          Male'=133% (F=138%; M=127%,)

                   Male'=110% (F=112%;                     Atolls= 51% (F=54%; M=48%,)
                   M=108%,)
                                                           2005 data                                      2005
                   Atolls= 42%
                                                           National =88 % (F=92%; M=84%,)

                                                           Male'=128% (F=131%; M=125%,)




                                                                   27

                                                     Atolls= 79% (F= 81%; M=76%,)

5. Student-        National STR= 20.8:1          2000 National STR= 17.4:1                                  National STR 27:1
teacher ratios
(STRs) in Male'    Male'= 19.4:1                     Male'= 18.6:1                                          Male' = 27:1
and in the atolls. Atolls = 21.4:1                   Atolls = 16.9:1 (but with wide disparity               Atolls= 27:1
                                                     between atolls 10:1 22:1)

Student per        National STTR= 28:1               National STTR= 23.7:1
trained teacher
ratio (STTR)       Male'= 22:1                       Male'= 21.5:1
                   Atolls = 31:1                     Atolls = 24.7:1

6. Increased       Total national teachers=3,326 2000 Total national teachers (including             2005   Expatriate teachers
number of          (this is 69% of all teachers)     preprimary)= 3,538 (this is 63% of all                 decreased to 8 % of total
national           Trained=1,996 (F= 1,296; M=       teachers)                                              number of teachers:
teachers, by       700;)                                                                                    national teacher numbers
gender and         Untrained=1,330 (F= 860; M        Trained (including having teacher                      increased to 92 % of
location           =470)                             qualifications, not just graduates in subject          teaching force.
                                                     area= 2,063 (F=1,462; M= 601 )
                   Male': Total national             Untrained= 1,475 (F=967; M=508)
                   teachers=793 (58% of all
                   teachers)                         Male': Total national teachers=894 (58%
                   Trained=624 (F=478; M             of all teachers)
                   =146)                             Trained= 693 (F=579; M=114 )
                   Untrained= 169(F=106;             Untrained= 201(F=107; M =94)
                   M=63)
                                                     Atolls: Total national teachers= 2,644
                   Atolls: Total national            (65% of all teachers)
                   teachers=2533 (73% of all         Trained= 1,370( F=883; M=487)
                   teachers)                         Untrained=1,274 (F=860; M=414)
                   Trained= 1,372 ( F= 818; M=
                   554)
                   Untrained=1,161 (F =754;
                   M=407)
7. Increased                                     2000 Number of professionals trained through
number of                                            MCHE = 5,560                                   01/31/
national                                             -By year of project: 2000 (1,091), 2001        2007
professionals in                                     (930), 2002 (562), 2003 (1003); 2004
the labor force                                      (959); 2005 (1015). Key specializations
                                                     include: key areas of specialization included:
                                                     information technology, management/ business,
                                                     and accounting and finance

                                                     Number of professionals trained overseas
                                                     = 321 (312 from the public sector)
                                                     - By year of project: 2000 (2); 2001 (29);
                                                     2002 (108); 2003 (132); 2004 (48); 2005
                                                     (3)
                                                     (313 from the public sector): key areas of
                                                     training included education (57%), accounting
                                                     /finance (7%) and management (2%), IT (2%)
                                                     and computer studies (2%).

                                                     Number of teachers trained (preservice) by             Preservice training program
                                                     year of project= 1,775 teachers                        to produce about 80
                                                     By year of project: 2000 (330); 2001 (NA);             additional lower-secondary
                                                     2002 (NA); 2003 (491); 2004 (954); 2005                teachers each year.
                                                     (NA)

                                                     About 1,345 primary and 1,885 secondary                About 1,500 primary and
                                                     school teachers were provided with some                300 secondary teachers
                                                     in-service.



                                                             28

Table 2B:1: School Enrollment in Project Focus Atolls by Location and Level and Gender
Atoll/Year                      2000                       2005

Primary
                               F         M        Total    F         M        Total
Haa Alifu                       2,333    2,451    4,784    1,609     1,757    3,366
Lhaviyani                       1,234    1,279    2,513    907       999      1,906
Alifu Dhaalu                    964      1,140    2,104    771       835      1,606
Thaa                            1,498    1,567    3,065    924       1,076    2,000
Gaafu Alifu                     1,179    1,281    2,460    1,010     1,167    2,177
Shaviyani                       1,737    1,767    3,504    1,378     1,471    2,849
Noonu                           1,743    1,719    3,462    1,326     1,506    2,832
Raa                             2,441    2,601    5,042    1,756     1,868    3,624
Faafu                           606      625      1,231    462       510      972
Dhaalu                          730      805      1,535    589       617      1,206
Total for Project- Focus Atolls 14,465   15,235   29,700   10,732    11,806   22,538
Male                            7,150    7,285    14,435   6,774     7,100    13,874
Maldives                        35,764   37,758   73,522   27,667    30,206   57,873

Lower Secondary

                               F         M        Total    F         M        Total
Haa Alifu                       250      232      482      740       688      1,428
Lhaviyani                       319      325      644      353       343      696
Alifu Dhaalu                    162      151      313      365       402      767
Thaa                            195      182      377      450       472      922
Gaafu Alifu                     242      186      428      333       333      666
Shaviyani                       265      248      513      696       697      1,393
Noonu                           237      250      487      575       487      1,062
Raa                             181      177      358      817       765      1,582
Faafu                           100      123      223      206       171      377
Dhaalu                          108      135      243      277       294      571
Total for Project- Focus Atolls 2,059    2,009    4,068    4,812     4,652    9,464
Male                            4,613    4,405    9,018    5,559     4,457    10,016
Maldives                        9,518    8,736    18,254   14,973    13,673   28,646

Higher Secondary

                               F         M        Total    F         M        Total
Haa Alifu                       0        0        0        2         17       19
Lhaviyani                       0        0        0        11        10       21
Alifu Dhaalu                    0        0        0        3         20       23
Thaa                            0        0        0        0         0        0
Gaafu Alifu                     0        0        0        6         3        9
Shaviyani                       0        0        0        7         15       22
Noonu                           0        0        0        3         11       14
Raa                             0        0        0        2         16       18
Faafu                           0        0        0        0         0        0
Dhaalu                          0        0        0        0         0        0

Total for Project- Atolls       0        0        0        34        92       126
Male                            312      247      559      742       402      1,144
Maldives                        312      247      559      934       615      1,549




                                                  29

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Cost Effectiveness of Project Investments

The project related reforms sought to improve the internal and external efficiency of the
educational system. Project investments in teacher education and skill training sought to yield
direct savings through replacing expatriate teachers and workers with nationals. Project
investments also were expected to yield indirect benefits, including increasing access to
secondary education, improving quality of education in the atolls schools, and improving
learning through new curricula and assessment systems.

Enhanced Equitable Access to Secondary Education: While Maldives as a whole has increased
lower secondary school enrollment by 57%, with Male' witnessing an increase of 11%, the ten
project focus atolls have seen an increase in lower secondary school enrollment of 133% . In the
10 project focused atolls between 2000-2005, lower secondary enrolment grew from 4,068 to
9,464. Higher secondary school enrollment grew from 0 to 126.

While it is clear that attribution of increases in post-primary enrolment, even in project focused
atolls, exclusively to project interventions is not possible, it is most likely that project
interventions did have a major role to play in achieving increases in lower secondary enrollment
of 133% in project focused atolls, compared with the rest of Maldives where enrollment grew
only by 35%. Under the assumption of a 30% increase in income as result of secondary education
(over that earned by a primary school graduate), and a 30-year working life and several other
simplifying assumptions, the net present value of undertaking secondary school education is
calculated at around US$ 3,800. If we consider students who are in secondary schools because
the growth of enrollment in project focused atolls is over and above trend increases outside the
project focused atolls (i.e 3,986 students, an increase of 98% over and above the 35% trend
increase in Maldives excluding project focused atolls), the Net Present Value that can be
attributed to this project component is US$ 12.7 million.

Teacher Costs: The original PAD target Student Teacher Ratio (STR) of 27 to be achieved by
2005 was not met. The fall in STR all over Maldives, in Male' and in the Atolls (in 2005 the
STRs were 17.4, 18.6 and 16.9, respectively), has added considerable cost to the salary budget.
For example, in the lower secondary school sector which has seen the biggest increases in
enrollment (97%) and teachers (151%), the decline in STR from 18 to 14 between 1999-2005 has
added approximately 33% to the salary budget of the lower secondary school sector. If the STR
in lower secondary schools had increased to 22 instead, approximately 60% of the current salary
cost could have been saved.

Finally expatriate teachers as a percentage of total teachers in lower secondary school sector has
remained stagnant throughout the project period at around 73%. Overall the total number of
national/local teachers as a ratio of all teachers, including pre-primary teachers, has declined
from 69% at project start to 63% at project end as against a target of 92% for 2005 as stated in
the PAD. This resulted primarily from an expansion in the post-primary schooling sector which
was faster than expected at project appraisal, especially in the atolls. The supply and training of
national teachers have not been able to keep pace with schooling demand and the expansion.
Finally, it was noted at appraisal and is worth repeating that expatriate teachers cost between two
and three times as much as local teachers in salary and allowances. This means that the
continuing dependence on expatriate teachers inflates the overall teacher salary budget by


                                                 30

between 30% and 40%. It is important that the Government of Maldives thinks carefully about
alternative, perhaps more innovative ways of expanding secondary education to the smaller low
enrollment islands rather than providing traditional schools, or else this burden will grow.

Enhanced Overseas Skill Training

The sustained economic growth in the last 15 years has led to a labor shortage in key sectors of
the economy. There has been a substantial inflow of foreign labor to the country especially in the
service sectors. The overseas skill fellowships have made a significant contribution to raising the
technical competence and qualification levels in the workforce, as well as confidence of staff in
all Ministries, especially in the MOE and related educational institutions, as well as some private
sector organizations. During the project period, there were 321 education overseas fellowships
actually taken up of which 56 percent were women and approximately 28 percent were from the
atolls.

Out of 321 fellowships, 63 fellowships were for graduate programs (20%) and 258 (80%) for
undergraduate programs. Of the 321 fellowships, 312 (97%) were given to public sector. The
major areas of specialization were teaching/education (57%), accounting/finance (7%),
management (5%), IT (2%) and computer studies (2%) and the balance (26%) for varied
specializations like law, human resources, multimedia web design, visual communications,
development studies, aquaculture, library science etc.

The individual fellowship's economic benefit is calculated by taking the difference in the income
streams between the local secondary school trained worker and his trained foreign counterpart
with a university degree, spread over twenty years and discounted at 6%. The calculation shows
that even with the most conservative estimates the net present value to the Maldivian economy
for each trained local individual after accounting for the average cost of foreign scholarship
(US$ 35,000) and income forgone during training is US$ 21,800 to replace a foreign Primary
School Teacher/ Principal, rising to US$ 135,000 if he replaces a Foreign Manager. The net
present value of all 321 scholarships ranges between US$ 7 million and US$ 43 million.

Cost Recovery

The fellowship component envisaged the recovery of 15% of the fellowship costs (with 0%
interest rates) from public sector fellowship awardees, and 60% (with 5% interest rate) from
private sector fellowship awardees. As of August 2006, only 43% of the money due from
fellowship awardees at that time had been recovered. This repayment rate is worryingly low. A
typical recipient whose scholarship costs just under US$35,000 could repay his/her obligation
with 9% of his/her annual salary over 12 years, even if they got the least paying of the jobs
available on return (as a local primary school teacher with a degree). Clearly, improvement on
the recovery of funds should have been done with more application and urgency. However, it is
noted that the DHET has made good use of the funds it has recovered under ETP, SETP and
TETP by depositing these into a "long-term tertiary education fund (LTEF)". The LTEF has
awarded 75 zero percent interest rate loans to students for overseas study. This idea shows
promise, and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is considering linking its contribution to the
LTEF to recoveries under the three ETPs.




                                               31

The Project Impact on Sector Budget

The Education Sector expenditures have increased from 0.4 billion mrf. (5.7 % of GDP and
16.3% of total government expenditure) in 2000, to 1.1 billion rf. (9.6% of GDP and 13.8% of
total government expenditure ) in 2006 . At appraisal baseline projections for the education sector
budget in 2005 were just under 0.5 billion mrf. Actually, expenditures in 2005 were 0.85 billion
mrf. (almost 70% over appraisal estimates). This increase in education sector spending has been
part of overall pattern of increased governmental spending. At appraisal the total government
budget was projected to increase from 2.2 billion mrf. in 2000 to 3 billion mrf. in 2005. In fact,
total government expenditures rose to 5.6 billion mrf in 2005 (100% increase over appraisal
estimates). Government expenditures stood at 58.5% of GDP in 2005 and revised estimates for
2006 took this figure even higher at just under 70%. Increase in government expenditures has
been accompanied by a steady increase in per capita income from just over 2200 US$ in 2000 to
just over 3000 US$ in 2006. It is heartening to note that the education sector expenditures as a
percentage of GDP have risen from 5.7% in 2000 to 8.8 % in 2005 (double the regional average
of between 3-4%).

The impact of the project expenditures on the overall government budget and education sector
expenditures was relatively small. Project expenditures never exceeded 8.7 % of total education
expenditures, whereas at appraisal project expenditures were expected to be over 12% of total
education expenditures in three of the six project years, including a high of over 18% in one year.

Sustainability

There are four main reasons for increased education expenditures: (i) general salary increase of
33% in 2004; (ii) secondary school expansion in 2002-2005 with a resultant increase in expatriate
teachers; (iii) the conversion of 138 community schools to government schools in 2005-2006,
with all their attendant costs; (iv) and increasingly lower STRs. It is important that the
Government of Maldives thinks carefully about alternative, perhaps more innovative ways of
expanding secondary school education to the remaining islands, especially since there is a
gradual and significant drop in the number of primary school entrants in the past few years due to
demographic changes. Currently there is a100% primary NER with a 21% drop in primary school
students between 2000 and 2005. It can easily be foreseen that within the next few years, the
Maldives may well have an overcapacity in its secondary school sector. In addition efforts should
be redoubled to train local teachers to replace foreign teachers. Sustainability of the project
investments may be jeopardized if adequate attention is not given to the above concerns.




                                                32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

Names                      Title                             Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Vincent Greaney            Principal Education Specialist    SASED   Task Team Leader
Venita Kaul                Sr Education Specialist           SASED   Education
Harsha Aturupane           Economist                         SASED   Economics
Sumith Pilapitiya          Senior Environmental Engineer     SASEN   Environment
Starlet Vedamuthu          Operations Analyst                SASED   Operations support
Julie-Anne Graitge         Program Assistant                 SASED   Program Assistance
 Julitta Rasiah            Financial Management              SARFM   Financial Manag.
Jayantha De Mel            Procurement                       SARPS   Procurement
Laura Kiang
Supervision/ICR
Venita Kaul                Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD   Task Team Leader
Rosita Van Meel            Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD   Task Team Leader
Vincent Greaney            Lead Education Specialist         SASHD   Task Team Leader
Helen Craig                Sr. Education Specialist          SASHD   TTL/ICR
Laura Kiang                Sr. Operations Officer            SASHD   Operations support
Deepal Fernando            Sr Procurement Spec.              SARPS   Procurement
Manoj Jain                 Sr Financial Management Specia    SARFM   Financial Manag.
Naveed Naqvi               Education Economist               SASHD   Economics
Bertha M. Mburugu          Program Assistant                 SASHD   Program Assistance
Sumith Pilapitiya          Lead Environmental Specialist     SASES   Environment
Tikiri Kumari Seneviratne  Operations Officer                SASHD   Operations support
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe  Financial Management Specialist   SARFM   Financial Manag.



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks         USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                 103.95
  FY99                                                                 210.64
  FY00                                          56                     134.73
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                           1                       0.41
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
Total:                                          57                     449.73


                                             33

Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                        0.00
  FY99                                        0.00
  FY00                                11     22.02
  FY01                                16     27.82
  FY02                                 6     18.49
  FY03                                15     61.22
  FY04                                14     80.80
  FY05                                20     75.00
  FY06                                 2     22.89
  FY07                                 6     28.82
Total:                                90    337.06



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(Not applicable)




                                    34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

In February, 2004, a Stakeholders work was organized with participants from all those departments and
ministries which had a role in the planning and implementation of the TETP and had a direct stake in its
success. Participants were asked about: Lessons learned from the TETP; Quality in the Third Education
Sector Project; Coordination Arrangements in Implementation of Education Activities; Reform of the
PIU function; and Sustainability of the TETP outcomes beyond the project phase. In summary, the
main messages were:
       The Project design should allow for greater flexibility and making changes according to the
           changing context. At present the details and specific outputs are fixed too early in the process.
           There should be greater local role in preparing and finalizing the project design.
       There should be a clear preparatory phase in which baseline data is collected, feasibility of
           certain targets is checked and certain minimum capacities for implementation are gathered.
       There is no clear place/process/mechanism for gaining and maintaining an overview by all
           stakeholders as the project progresses.
       The skills base within the Ministry is not adequate to deal with quality issues and should be
           upgraded. A comprehensive and systemic framework for quality related policies, targets,
           monitoring, research, coordination and communication is needed.
       Creating stronger links between education and employment is crucial. Future expansion of
           education and skills should meet the needs of the economic sector

The ICR team also interviewed 12 persons in January 2007 who had received various scholarships.
They expressed more confidence and better knowledge of the subject matter, although some had
difficulty in locating suitable institutions and being able to follow courses of their own choices. Some
other challenges included: (i) the difficulty in linking Department needs to the courses being undertaken
by the student, and the related role of the Scholarship Board in this process, so that the courses chosen
have were the most appropriate for meeting Department needs; (ii) there was some difficulty in
identifying quality courses in the region, and even some of those in the regions, especially those of
Malaysia have proved expensive as those offered in OECD universities (iii) cost recovery, seen by
many as quite onerous, representing a high proportion of a person's income, and unfair since it did not
apply to all scholarships program on offer; (v) at project closure, only 43% of the money due from
fellowship awardees at that time had been recovered. This repayment rate is very low. (vi) the method
of cost-recovery collection (with the PIU)) was not sustainable, and it was a good decision to move this
task to DHET under the Ministry of Higher Education, Employment and Social Security3; (vii) the
strategy of educating students up to grade 12 in hopes of decreasing the number of foreign secondary
level teachers was only partly effective since many students are not interested in teaching, and many
successful teachers who obtain fellowships were then promoted to supervisors and administrators,
leaving teachers to foreign teachers mainly from India and Sri Lanka; (viii) Fellowship recipients were
to be bonded to their sponsoring agencies after the completion of their studies. However, this has not
worked effectively and there is evidence of movement within government, or even outside it, to better
paying department, as well as deferrals, some times very long ones.




3It is to be noted that the DHET has recycled the funds it has recovered under ETP, SETP and TETP and deposited these into a "long-term
tertiary education fund (LTEF)", by awarding 75 zero percent interest rate loans to students for overseas study. This idea shows promise, and the
Ministry of Finance and Treasury is considering linking its contribution to the LTEF to recoveries under the three ETPs.




                                                                  35

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES: The project will improve education quality and efficiency,
increase equitable access, strengthen institutional capacity, and develop professional skills in the
national labor force.

2. COMPONENTS :
A) Improve Education Quality: This component has 3 sub-components (a) teacher education and training,
(b) curriculum and textbook development, and (c) student assessment and public examination.

(a) Teacher education and training: This sub-component effectively addressed critical issues with
respect to the quality of teaching, especially the large percentage of untrained and under qualified
teachers especially in the atolls.

(b) Pre-service teacher training, conducted by the Faculty of Education (FE), improved tremendously
during the last 4 years. The enrollment increased from 330 in 2000 to 491 in 2003. This figure further
increased in 2004 to 954. This rapid rise in enrollment is due to other qualitative developments at FE,
including development of higher level courses and training of academic staff. In 2002, only 2 diploma
courses were offered at FE, but now FE offers 4 Diploma programs. In 2002, no degree level courses
were offered, but FE now offers 4 degree programs for pre-service teachers. With these improvements,
lower level programs were phased out, except for Advanced Certificate of Teaching - Primary (started in
2002), mainly as in-service/pre-service offered in campuses in atolls. This certificate program is now
offered in five atolls for in-service and pre-service teachers. These achievements have been facilitated
through project interventions. By the end of 2004, FE extension building became operational with
equipment and resources sufficient to cope with the current enrolment and more. The link institute
arrangement for FE (Edith Cowan University of Australia) was established and FE staff capacity was
strengthened through long-term training programs and through visiting fellowships at the link institutions.
Currently, FE has a strong teaching staff, almost 80% with specialized Master's degree qualifications.
With these strengths, it is projected that by 2007 the current enrollment of FE can be doubled to 2126. By
then, FE would be offering six Degree programs, six Diploma programs and one Certificate program for
pre-service teachers. This is excluding the different programs to be offered to school heads, laboratory
assistants, etc. The achievement in teacher training vis--vis PAD target is summarized below in Table 1.

Table 1: Primary and Secondary Schools Teaching Improvement
                                                              %
 INDICATORS                                 PAD       Actual  Achievement Institution   Year        Remarks
                                            Target                        Responsible   Completed
 A.   PRIMARY        SCHOOL     TEACHING
 IMPROVEMENT
 1. Upgrading primary school educators to   18        18      100         FE            July 2003
 Dip. Education
 2. Out of which, in-service specialists in 16        16      100         FE            June 2003
 atolls to Dip. Education
 3. Upgrading to B. Education level         4         4       100         Overseas***   Dec. 2006   2 completed
 4a. Upgrading untrained teachers (Bridging 110       135     123         FE            Dec 2004
 Program) to meet 'O' Level equivalent
 4b. Out of which female (%)                Majority  72      NA          NA            NA NA
 5. In-service training                     1150      1885    164         EDC           Early 2005
 B. SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHING
 IMPROVEMENT
 1. Annual output of lower secondary school 30 to 80  60      9           NA            2005
 teachers*


                                                    36

 2. Upgrading teacher educators to Bachelors         6             9          150         Overseas***    July 2006     8 completed
 3. Upgrading teacher educators to Masters           6            30          500         Overseas***    July 2006     16 completed
 4. Annual output of higher secondary school         20 to 25     6           -73         NA             2005
 teachers**
 5. Staff development of secondary teachers          300           300        100         FE             Early 2005
 in core subject areas

 6. Facilities to meet the expanded needs of         5       class All        100         NA             Jan. 2005
 teachers' training programs                         rooms,     2 done.
                                                     labs,offices,
                                                     study
                                                     rooms etc.

Note 1: NA means Not Applicable.
* Total of 239 from 2001 to 2005 with an annual average of 60.
** Total of 24 from 2001 to 2005 with an annual average of 6.
*** Overseas Fellowship Program under TETP which will complete on January 31 2007.

Atoll based in-service training programs have been established in two atolls and three more schools are
being considered. The project also conducted various in-service training programs, with special
concentration on teachers from atoll schools and about 59% were female teachers. The achievement is
summarized below in Table 2.

TABLE 2: DETAILS OF IN-SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAM (conducted by EDC)
                                                  No. of
                                                  Teachers
 Grade Level                                      Trained             Subject Matter        Year           No. of Sessions

 A. PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
 1. Primary Teachers                              300                 Teaching Methodology  2003           2
 2. Primary Teachers                              300                 Teaching Methodology  2004           2
 3. Primary Teachers                              85                  Content Upgrading     2003-2004      3
 4. Primary Teachers                              240                 "Specific Needs"      2003           8
 5. Primary Teachers                              360                 "Specific Needs"      2004           12
 6. Primary Teachers                              60                  "Specific Needs"      2005           2

 Sub-total                                        1345                ------------          -------------  29

 B. SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
 1. Secondary Teachers                            240                 Teaching Methodology  2003           8
 2. Secondary Teachers                            240                 Teaching Methodology  2004           8
 3. Secondary Teachers                            60                  Teaching Methodology  2005           2
 Sub-total                                        540                 ------------          -----------    18

 TOTAL                                            1885                ------------          -----------    47


As stated earlier, with the output from the pre-service courses of the Faculty of Education (FE) increasing
every year, the availability of trained teachers is expected to further improve in the coming years. In
addition, the British Council will contribute to the training under a separate project.

(c) Curriculum and textbook development: This sub-component recorded a disappointing performance
during the period 2000-early 2003 due to misunderstanding and misinterpretation regarding the activities to
be undertaken by EDC, in addition to a lack of clarity on the part of PMC about the objectives of this sub-
component and the possible effect on the country. Hence, it was consistently given `unsatisfactory' rating
by the Bank Supervision Missions in 2000, 2001, and 2002. Up to Mid-Term Review in mid-2003, no
disbursements had been made, except for the overseas fellowship element of EDC staffs, which was
accomplished only after a considerable delay. However, from late 2003 onwards, after PMC came under
MOE, officials of MOE, PMC, and EDC had several discussions to jump start this crucial sub-component.


                                                               37

All the activities that were supposed to be achieved during the first half of the project were squeezed in to
the second half of the project under a tight schedule. The following paragraphs summarize the results,
mostly achieved from late 2003 to 2005.

Training workshops were held for curriculum personnel with technical assistance in training of writers and
curriculum development by the Education Development Center (EDC). There were also study tours,
technical assistance, and in-house training. Four international consultants were recruited to conduct in-
service training for curriculum development, focusing on the most recent developments. As a result, there
has been a significant improvement in the syllabuses, textbook organization and presentation, manuscript
preparation, selection of artwork and text paper, and printing/procurement aspects of textbook preparation.
International publishing consultancy and short training courses on book publishing were also provided.

EDC, with the assistance from two international consultants, has prepared the revised outcome-based
syllabi, textbooks, and teaching materials for primary Grades (1 to 7) in English, Mathematics, Science,
Social studies, Environmental Studies, Dhivehi, and Islam. This new approach is constantly tested, after
which the approach would be replicated. EDC conducted orientation meetings, to introduce the outcome-
based syllabi, with Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs), two schools at a time, which created a high
receptivity in the user groups. However, the most urgent requirement would be for the teachers to be well
trained in the revised approach. National School Technology Curriculum for IT has also been prepared.
EDC has undertaken a field study to assess the user reception to its new curricula and textbooks, a summary
of which is provided in Section 4.2.

EDC has also prepared and distributed about 28 story books for children. This is a major accomplishment.
EDC, with assistance from the project, has also produced 56 more titles for children storybooks, which will
provide local-specific reading material for children. However, the printing could not be done under the
project due to time constraints.

EDC has also been enriched with equipments and reference materials by TETP. In terms of overall
professional capacity, EDC is showing much greater promise, but needs support on a continuous basis for
further consolidation and capacity building.
In addition, some work on curriculum for the vocational stream was done by the Center for Continuing
Education (CCE). Eight modules have been developed by CCE in different subjects linked to labor market
needs for the vocational stream which MOE is planning to introduce in lower secondary schools. These
modules will initially be used in regional vocational programs to be implemented with support from
UNICEF and other development organizations and will later be assimilated into the lower secondary school
curriculum.

(d) Student assessment and public examination: Since November 2004, the National Assessment Unit has
become part of the Department of Public Examinations (DPE). A series of 8 overseas training workshops on
National Assessment has been undertaken. One person was trained at Master's degree Level. Assessments
(pilot tests) were conducted in 2001 and 2002 and a national assessment conducted in 2003 (NASAL 2003)
in Numeracy (Mathematics) and Literacy (English and Dhivehi). The results of NASAL 2003 were
analyzed and a report has been compiled. An International Assessment Specialist was hired for the analysis
and reporting of NASAL 2003. The National Assessment Unit is in the process of producing short articles
from the detailed NASAL 2003 Report to enable wider circulation, understanding and feedback from all the
stakeholders, including the schools. In 2004, NASAL was conducted for schools in Male', Meem Atoll, Raa
Atoll and Seen Atoll. The data have been assembled and the analysis is expected to begin soon.

Project activities to develop a secondary public examination system have led to a number of initiatives.
Citing the low pass rate, especially in English Language, `English as a Second language' option was
expected to be available from November 2005 in the Cambridge Institute Exam (CIE). The Secondary


                                                 38

School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) examiners, trained under
TETP, have initiated a plan to reform the current method of assessment in the respective examinations.
Modern techniques gained from the training in Australia have led to clarity of questioning in SSC
Dhivehi and Islamic Studies exam papers. A number of discussion papers on project work in SSC and
HSC examinations have been produced and forwarded to concerned authorities. However, in order to
introduce these changes in SSC, it is essential to include in the syllabus as well. Hence, the proposal has
been forwarded to EDC.

B) Increase Equitable Access: This component has 2 sub-components (a) expanding secondary school
access by targeting the needs of atoll students, and (b) training of teachers and headmasters of atoll
schools.

(a) Expanding secondary school access by targeting the needs of atoll students
 (i) Civil works for 4 Atoll Education Centers (AECs)  Haa Alif AEC, Alif Dhaal AEC, Thaa AEC,
and Madhrasathul Ifthithah  were completed. Total capacity is 4 multi-purpose rooms, 20 classrooms,
9 toilets, 8 science and computer laboratories, 3 libraries, 8 store-rooms and 1 office.
(ii) Equipment: Physics, chemistry, biology, fisheries science, and sports equipment were supplied to 10
AECs including the 4 project AECs. Additional equipment was purchased for 21 clusters schools.
(iii) Furniture: Classroom furniture (chairs, desks, blackboards, teachers' chairs, and teachers' tables)
were supplied to meet the additional requirements created by the added capacity of the 4 project AECs.
Other furniture required for teaching and management was also supplied to the 4 project AECs, 6
additional AECs and 21 cluster schools.
(iv). Library Books and other Educational Materials: These were supplied to the 10 AECs and 21
cluster schools. In addition, reading schemes have been supplied to all schools in the country (other
than Male').

(b) Training of teachers and headmasters of atoll schools
TETP envisaged training of 30 teachers and headmasters of atoll schools (at-least 7 from each of the 4
project AECs in Bachelor of Education and/or Diploma in Education. Additional training for them in
computer skills, information technology, and library science was also envisaged. In 2002, 11 AEC
personnel (teachers and headmasters) and in 2003, 19 AEC personnel have gone for training to degree
level, and 3 personnel are undertaking Masters. About 30 AEC teachers went for Diploma in Middle
School Teaching in India in 2002 and another 13 teachers went for the same training in 2003. Both
groups have completed the training. In addition, 16 AEC teachers went for Advanced Diploma in
Secondary Teaching in Sri Lanka in 2003 and 11 teachers, who went for training in Advanced
Certificate in Secondary Teaching in Sri Lanka, have completed their studies. The achievement of this
sub-component is over 100% comparing with the PAD target.

C) Strengthen Institutional Capacity: The project would help improve planning and implementation of
education programs by providing: (a) technical assistance (TA) to develop an Education Management
Information System (EMIS) and expanding the information links to the atolls; and (b) support to the
Project Implementation Unit, which later became the Project Management and Coordination Section
(PMC)4.


4
  During the initial stages of TETP, the overall responsibility for the project implementation was vested with MHREL. However, due
to changes initiated by GOM, the structures and functions of MHREL and MOE were changed. Consequently, the Project
Management and Coordination Section (PMC), which was earlier called `Project Implementation Unit (PIU), was moved from
MHREL to MOE in November 2003.




                                                                  39

(a) Technical assistance to develop an Education Management Information System (EMIS) and
expanding the information links to the atolls
The objective of the EMIS was to collect, assemble, evaluate data, interpret and make educational
policy decisions, based on the data generated. The core software is fully developed and has been
distributed to the schools. Currently, the school data are being collected and the data from 345 schools
have has been entered into the system. Specific training sessions (Excel, SPSS and Access) are ongoing.
The Statistical Education Year Book 2004 was compiled using this EMIS database. However, the
information generated is very limited (only enrollment by gender, regions etc.). Other modules such as
higher education, employment statistics, examination results, repetition rates, gross and net enrollment
rates, supervision and assessment, curriculum changes etc. should be linked to EMIS in the future.
Continuous funding from the Government is a requirement to sustain and update EMIS.

(b) Support to the Program Management and Coordination Section (PMC)
A. Procurement: Civil Works: Ministry of Construction and Public Infrastructure was the civil works
consultant for the project. A National Construction Supervisor was hired to supervise construction in
the atolls. In the initial stage of implementation, there were some delays in the civil works procurement
due to understaffing and coordination problems. However, the situation improved after close
monitoring by PMC, which followed the Bank's guidelines on civil works procurement. All the civil
works planned under the project have been completed and the buildings handed-over.

Table 3: Civil Works for Atoll Education Centers (AECs)
                             Planned Date    Actual Date        Planned      Actual      Variation % Variation in
                             of              of                 Cost         Cost        in        Actual to
                             Completion      Completion         ('000 US $)  ('000 US $) US $      Planned Cost
 A. Improvement
 /Upgrading of (AECs)
 Haa Alifu AEC               Dec 19 2001     14 March 2002      261.91       292.00      30088.00   11.5
 Madhrasathul Ifthithah      Dec 19 2001     25 March 2002      309.75       319.40      9658.00    3.1
 Alif Dhaal AEC              Dec 19 2001     30 March 2002 229.91            257.00      27091.00   11.8
 Thaa AEC                    April 2002      June 2003          235.29       219.95      -15346.00  -6.5
 Sub-total                                                      1036.86      1088.35     51491.00   5.0
 B. Extension Building of    May 15 2004     25 Jan 2005        782.50       813.45      30947.00   4.0
 Faculty of Education
 (FE) of MCHE

 TOTAL COST                                                     1819.36      1901.80     82438.00   4.5

Note 1: Negative Figures show Cost Savings and Positive Figures show Cost Escalation.

Goods: PMC procured and distributed goods for all the agencies involved with the project. All goods
(equipment, IT equipment, lab equipment, furniture, educational materials and chemicals) needed for
the effective functioning of PMC, MOE, DPE, EDC, FE, FMC, AECs and 21 cluster schools were
procured and distributed during the project period. Initially, the goods were distributed by MOE. This
responsibility was transferred to PMC, after it came under the umbrella of MOE in November 2003.
Although the efficiency improved vastly, it has put an enormous work load on the procurement staff of
PMC.

International Consultancies: There were 36 consultancies procured under TETP. Out of this, six were
QCBS (17%), 20 were Individual International Consultancies (56%), and 10 were Individual National
Consultancies (28%). All the procurements were made in line with the Bank Procurement Guidelines.

Library Books: Initially, there were difficulties in the procurement of library books and so key staff
from various implementing agencies proceeded to different locations to select books and most of the
needs have been procured.


                                                       40

B. Staffing of PMC : PMC is fully staffed with young and motivated personnel. During the initial stages
of the implementation, there were only nine staff members. Currently, there are 14 staff members. The
list is as follows: Project Director, Project Coordinator, Project Accountant, Accounts Officers (2),
Fellowship Officer (2), Procurement Officers (4), Office Administrator, Administrative Assistant and
Financial Assistant.

C. Training of PMC Staff: There were two long-term overseas trainings in accounting (one has
completed and the other continuing) and nine short term trainings (procurement, accounting, human
resources and project management) financed by TETP. These trainings have strengthened the technical
capacity of PMC in the key areas and have enabled the staff to work more independently, which was
not the case during the initial stages of the project.

D. Financial Management: Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursement is used for
the project. PMRs were produced on time for most of the quarters, although there were delays
during the later years of the project due to PMC handling two projects, i.e., TETP and IHDP,
concurrently. In general, the project did not face any delay in receiving counterpart funds,
provided there was adequate provision in the government budget. However in the event the
budget was used up, there was limited flexibility in obtaining a supplementary budget.

E. Asset management: PMC has updated the fixed asset register and the fixed asset acceptance
procedure has been strengthened.

F. External Audit: The external audit report for each year was submitted before the due date,
which is June 30 of the following year.

G. Progress Reports: PMC prepared semi-annual progress reports for submission to the World Bank
and GOM. There were delays in submissions to the World Bank in a few cases. The progress reports
focused mostly on expenditure and procurement rather than outputs and outcomes from each
component. The report was useful for monitoring the project from the operational point of view and
was shared with the World Bank missions. In addition, systematic review of project objectives was also
done later in the project and the findings shared with World Bank Missions.

D) Train Qualified Nationals for the Labor Force

This component had 3 sub-components (a) in-country skill training and strengthening of FMC
programs, (b) overseas fellowships, and (c) studies.

(a) In-country skill training and strengthening of FMC programs: The project target of expanding in-
country post-secondary business-training programs through the strengthening and expansion of the
Faculty of Management and Computing (FMC)5 has been successful to some extent. FMC has moved
away from the previous focus on short-term courses and moved towards long-term accredited programs.
This is reflected in the decrease in enrollment in short-term courses between 2000 and 2005. While
enrollment in long-term courses had risen during the same period, the increase had not been as
significant as the decrease mainly because greater capacity and resources were required to implement
the long-term courses. FMC is instituting several measures to further expand enrollment and increase
the number of courses available in the evenings for public and private sector employees. The curricula



5
  FMC was formerly called the Institute of Management and Computing (IMA).




                                                            41

are also being reviewed and it was expected that two degrees would be launched in the second semester
of 2005. Additional courses, revised marketing strategies and diversified dissemination of course
information have contributed to the positive change in FMC's enrollment. The summary is given below.

Table 4: ENROLLMENT IN FMC BY THE DURATION OF COURSES
 Courses                   2000       2001        2002          2003       2004        2005
 Long-term Courses         479        490         319           404        424         550
 Short-term Courses        612        440         243           599        345         490
 Total                     1091       930         562           1003       769         1040


Various project interventions have contributed to the strengthening of FMC's programs. A link
institution arrangement has been established with the Auckland University of Technology (AUT) in
New Zealand, under which, curriculum consultants from AUT have designed curricula for the two
degree programs. The link institution arrangement would lead to international accreditation of FMC
courses in the near future, enabling the college to reduce its long-term dependency on overseas partner
institutions and consequently reducing its operating expenses. In addition, 17 long-term trainings were
awarded to FMC out of which one was terminated (due to failure of the candidate) and two were due to
leave in 2005. Six Master's degree level trainings, four undergraduate degree trainings and one CIMA
training have been completed. Two Diploma and one CIMA training are currently been undertaken.
Furniture and equipment required to facilitate the teaching program at FMC have been received and
installed at FMC. The procurement of educational materials/library books for FMC has also been
completed.

(b) Overseas fellowships : During the project period, there were 321 overseas fellowship receivers
including the two FMC employees due to leave for undergraduate diploma program in computer
maintenance and computer networking respectively. The total cost of the fellowship program is US
$ 11.06 million with an average cost per program being US$34,348 with a wide variation (the average
for the non-OECD countries about US $ 30,000 and the average for OECD countries about US
$ 50,000). Out of the total, 56% were women. Out of 321 fellowships, 63 fellowships (20%) were for
graduate programs (20%) and 258 (80%) for the undergraduate programs. The major areas of
specialization were teaching/education (57%), accounting/finance (7%), management (5%), IT (2%),
and computer studies (2%), and the balance (26%) for various specializations, such as law, human
resources, multimedia/web design, visual communications, development studies, aquaculture library
science, etc.

Of the total beneficiaries, approximately 28% was from atolls and all the atoll beneficiaries were in the
field of education/teaching (about 50% of the total teaching/education specialization beneficiaries). Out
of the total public sector personnel returning from the program, 98% successfully completed their
programs and only about 2% failed. All five private sector personnel successfully completed the
program. During the years 2000-2001, this component showed little progress, since more efforts were
directed towards synthesizing the `lessons learnt' under this component in SETP. From 2002,
implementation picked up. The details are presented below.

 TABLE 5: OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIP
                                          2000    2001     2002     2003   2004   2005   2006   TOTAL
  A. BY SECTOR
  1. Private Sector Personnel                0        0        8       1      0       0      0          9
  2. Public Sector Personnel                 2       29     100      131     45       1      3        312
  TOTAL                                      2       29     109      132     45       1      3        321
  % Public Sector Personnel                100      100      93       99    100    100     100         97
  Total Female Personnel                     0       14      62       82     22       1      0        181



                                                 42

   % Female to the Total                                  0         48         57         62          49         100           0       56
   B. BY PROGRAM TYPE
   1. Total Graduate Program                              1          1          6         13          39           1           2        63
   2. Total Under-graduate Program                        1         28        103        119            6          0           1       258
   TOTAL                                                  2         29        108        132          45           1           3       321
   % Graduate Program                                    50          3          6         10          87         100         67         20
   C. BY SPECIALIZATION
   1. Teaching/Education                                  0          0         59        112          12           1           0       184
   2. Accounting and Finance                              1          7         11          1            3          0           0        23
   3. Management                                          0          5          6          2            5          0           0        18
   4. Information Technology                              0          5          2          0            0          0           0         7
   5. Computer Studies                                    0          4          2          0            1          0           1         8
   6. Others                                              1          8         29         17          24           0           2        81
   TOTAL                                                  2         29        109        132          45           1           3       321
   % BY SPECIALIZATION
   1. Teaching/Education                                  0          0         54         85          27         100           0        57
   2. Accounting and Finance                             50         24         10          1            7          0           0         7
   3. Management                                          0         17          6          2          11           0           0         6
   4. Information Technology                              0         17          2          0            0          0           0         2
   5. Computer Studies                                    0         14          2          0            2          0         33          2
   6. Others                                             50         28         27         13          53           0         67         25
   TOTAL                                                100       100         100        100         100         100        100        100
   Total Cost of Fellowship Program (US                                                                                              11.06
   $ M)
   Average Cost of Fellowship Program (US                                                                                           34,348
   $)
Note 1: Table includes 2 FMC staff, who are due to begin training.
Note 2: Under SETP, 276 fellowships were given in total.

With regard to cost-recovery, public and private sector overseas fellowship beneficiaries under SETP
were expected to pay 15% and 50%, respectively, of their costs. However, for TETP, the Government
has agreed to 15% cost recovery charge for public sector fellowship beneficiaries and 60% cost-
recovery charge plus an addition of 5% annual interest fee for private sector fellowship beneficiaries.
The total amount recovered as of date is Rf 5.405 million (US $ 0.424 million). This includes all
recoveries from the three Education and Training projects6. Under SETP (276 fellowships), Rf 5.11
million (US $ 0.401 million) has been recovered and Rf 208,030 (US $ 16,320) has been recovered
under TETP. The entire recovered amount is deposited in the Bank of Maldives as `Thauleemee
Fund', so as to provide new fellowships in the future. However, no plan has been prepared to use this
fund. Recovery % is 7.7% for SETP fellowships, and 0.2% for TETP. PAD envisaged a recovery
target of US $ 2.9 million for the fellowships under TETP. Compared to the PAD Target, the
recovery for TETP fellowship is only 0.6%. It should be noted that a number of fellowship receivers
under TETP have not completed their programs. Nevertheless, a very low recovery rate is a matter of
concern. In particular, it was observed that the private sector repayment was very poor and the
sponsors were not cooperative in securing monthly payments from the beneficiaries. For the atoll
beneficiaries, very high bank transfer rates constitute a serious problem. The figures are summarized
below.



6
  No cost-recovery was included in the First Education and Training project. However, 5 students of this project were later financed
by the Second Education and Training Project which included cost-recovery. As such, these 5 students were including in the cost-
recovery program.




                                                               43

TABLE 6: OVERSEAS FELLOWSHIP - COST RECOVERY
 PROJECTS                     AMOUNT RECOVERED              %        %         Total %  % Recovered
                                                            Public   Private            to Amount
                          PUBLIC   PRIVATE      TOTAL                                   Spent
                          SECTOR   SECTOR
 1. FETP ('000 Rf)        87.35    0.00         87.35       100      0         100      Not Applicable
 2. SETP ('000 Rf)        3398.36  1711.67      5110.03     67       33        100      7.7
 3. TETP ('000 Rf)        187.80   20.23        208.03      90       10        100      0.2

 TOTAL( '000 Rf)          3673.51  1731.90      5405.41     68       32        100      2.1
 1. FETP ('000 US $)      6.85     0.00         6.85        100      0         100      0.1
 2. SETP ('000 US $)      266.54   134.25       400.79      67       33        100      7.7
 3. TETP ('000 US $)      14.73    1.59         16.32       90       10        100      0.2

 TOTAL( '000 US $)        288.12   135.84       423.95      68       32        100      2.1
NOTE 1: Average 1 US $ = 12.75


(b) Studies: All studies envisaged in PAD have been completed. Major studies like Impact
Evaluation of the Fellowship Program, Human Resource Needs Study, and Study on Educational
Quality, Relevance and Equity were completed. Midterm Evaluation Study of TETP and Third Party
Supervision (TPS) of TETP were also completed. The education sector has found the Third Party
Supervision report to be particularly useful.

3. LESSONS LEARNED
TETP demonstrates that projects in small countries with limited resources and geographical challenges
can be successfully implemented when there is a strong commitment from the Government and the
stakeholders. A summary of major lessons learned are as follows. For a full set of lessons learned and
project recommendations, see the Third Party Supervision report (2004).

3.1 Project Design
    (a) Integrated planning process and open communication, involving all stakeholders including the
        donor, facilitated by a series of workshops in Male' and also selected regions should be given
        priority
    (b) A dedicated inter-departmental project design team, drawing on departmental expertise, on the
        key components should be established for new projects
    (c) Good baseline information on the education sector in the first year of the project is paramount
        and it should be ensured that the staff capacity is enhanced for this purpose. EMIS procurement
        should be done right at the beginning of the project and it should be specified at the project
        design stage

3.2 Project Coordination and Implementation

    (a) Operational staff from different implementing agencies should meet at least once in a fortnight
    (b) M&E should be effective right from the beginning of the project.
    (c) PMC's semi-annual progress reports need improvement. The report is mainly procurement and
        finance based. It should concentrate on project achievements by different components and sub-
        components, based on log-framework approach. This needs greater attention for future projects.
    (d) The function of PMC should be reviewed with a view to strengthening it role in project
        coordination, management and both operational and strategic M&E.
    (e) The Policy, Planning and Research Section of MOE should initiate an information
        dissemination program to ensure all teachers, parents and school administrators are aware of the



                                                 44

        important changes taking place in the education sector. This may be in the form of a newsletter
        in Dhivehi and English, and also through media and consultative processes.
    (f) A series of measures should be put in place to build confidence among the stakeholders in the
        education system. In-service training of teachers should include a module on the steps to be
        taken to build mutual confidence between teachers and parents, and between teachers and
        students.
    (g) A `Quality Monitoring Framework' should be put in place by MOE, regardless of any
        externally assisted projects, to have baseline information and targets for school assessments,
        national assessment examinations, in-service training, curriculum, textbook production, teacher
        training, and school administration. This will involve using focal-point staff to check against
        performance indicators on a quarterly basis, consultant studies, sample surveys, focus group
        interviews, etc. The results should be reported to a policy making body. There can be an annual
        quality conference with participation from a broad group of stakeholders, i.e., MOE officials,
        parents, teachers, selected secondary students and other relevant ministries. Initially, this
        process could be done, on a pilot basis, in the atolls selected for the Integrated Human
        Development Project.
    (h) Increased teachers' participation in curriculum development, through classroom testing, PTA
        meetings, and student focus groups, is paramount. Subsequent revisions in curriculum can be
        done based on the suggestions. This would enable teachers, supervisors, other school staff,
        parents and students to have a stake in quality syllabuses and support materials.
    (i) Curriculum sub-committee, involving EDC, ESQIS, and DPE, should be formed to ensure that
        national assessment, school supervision and examination results are used in the curriculum
        development process.
    (j) The criteria for Overseas Fellowship Program should be amended to ensure that experienced
        staff, who may not have the formal qualification requirements, are eligible to apply for certain
        types of technical scholarships to enhance their work.

3.3 Policy Issues A formal consultative mechanism should be set up within MOE to take advice and
feedback on key issues in the education sector and take appropriate actions.
    (a) Each of the functional units within MOE should develop targets, benchmarks, and
        monitoring/self-evaluation process as a part of the strategic planning process.
    (b) A process of accountability of school management for the results of their students should be
        developed.
    (c) Initiatives should be continued to produce low cost books for students covering not only
        textbooks, but also general and enrichment materials with a view to promoting reading habit,
        and enlarging the educational experience outside the classroom.
    (d) The initiative for vocational training taken by the Center for Continuing Education (CCE)
        should be expanded by introducing vocational stream into syllabus in Grade 8, which in
        addition to providing a range of applied vocational subjects, would also have different applied
        syllabuses in English, Mathematics, Dhivehi, and basic business skills.
    (e) School assessments should be strengthened, standardized across the system and give a clearer
        indication of progress to `O' Level standards. This would include consideration of
        reintroduction of Year 7 national examination and a Year 10 General Certification Examination
        in all the subject areas as a prerequisite for student sitting for `O' Level examinations. This
        examination can lead to a Year 10 Certificate for those students not advancing to `A' Level.
        Moreover, there should be more emphasis on competency based testing in addition to the
        current knowledge based testing.
    (f) A review of the student course load should be undertaken with a view to reducing the number
        of subjects covered in lower secondary from eight to seven. The extra time freed should be
        made available for self-directed learning, group learning, and organized sports. This approach



                                                 45

         could be done on a pilot basis in selected schools. EDC should develop guidelines for teachers
         on promoting competency based self-directed learning and group learning.

4. SUSTAINABILITY

4.1 Rationale for sustainability rating: It is likely that the achievements reached during project
implementation will be maintained if processes initiated under TETP are continued.

The quality of primary education has improved through project efforts as evidenced by high primary to
secondary transition rates and improvements in the curriculum. Furthermore, there is tremendous
demand for secondary education as revealed by the steep rise in the enrollment. In general, the quality
of education in the project targeted AECs is high in comparison to other atoll schools. In order to
sustain these outcomes in project AECs and the overall school system, high quality in-service training
programs (both at primary and secondary level) should be done on a continuous basis. Assessment of
learning outcomes and whole-school supervision which feed into curriculum development and teacher
training will also be paramount for the sustainability of the process.

Factors affecting ongoing sustainability include: (a) the ability to supply trained teachers to island
schools. Trained teachers are very reluctant to go the islands due to poor living conditions, transport etc.
This will have a negative consequence on the sustainability. However, MOE has proposed incentives
which add to about 40% of the basic salary as additional allowances to attract trained teachers to the
islands and this proposal has been accepted at by the Government. (b) continue to expand and make
quality improvement to Faculty of Education programs without the extensive financial and technical
support provided by the project. (c) similar to FE, FMC has also been heavily supported by TETP both
financially and technically. As such, continued fiscal and technical support for FMC will also play a
critical role in determining the sustainability of the achievements made under TETP; (d) maintenance of
critical mass of trained staff in each of MoE's implementing units; (e) ongoing financing for staffing,
institutional capacity and provision of services, especially to atolls.

Areas that require special attention to ensure sustainability include: (a) Cost recovery from overseas
fellowship beneficiaries and the use of the funds to supply ongoing fellowships; (b) support to EDC on a
continuous basis for further capacity building and technical strengthening; (c) DPE should be strengthened to
develop a range of examination services to schools, so that school assessments can be strengthened and it can
be of a common quality. This process will give clearer indication of progress to O-Level standards.

5. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank

(a) Lending: The Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory. The project was in accordance with
the country objectives vis--vis the education sector. The Bank made conscious efforts to consult with
the stakeholders form the education sector, as well as other ministries. The Bank engaged in a fruitful
dialogue with MHREL, MOE and MCHE to jointly define the project development objectives and
actions to achieve them. The issue that SETP did not adequately address the quality of education was
considered by the Bank team and a component to `Improve Educational Quality' was included in TETP.
Inadequate understanding of the loan situation, leading to a shortfall in the funds to meet commitments
made in the project, did result in difficulties for project implementation in the final stages of project
implementation.

(b) Supervision: The Bank's supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower to support its efforts to successfully implement the project. Despite change in the Task


                                                   46

Manager, the dialogue during the implementation process was smooth and both parties sought and
found solutions to implementation bottlenecks (civil works procurement, confusion in PMR based
disbursement as the former PIU had been used to Statement of Expenditure based disbursement,
revising project expectations for STR changes, etc.). The bank supervised the project regularly (twice a
year) and this intensive supervision was one of the major contributing factors in achieving the targets.
The Bank agreed to the request for project extension from 31 March 2005 to 30 September 2005 for all
the components except Overseas Fellowship, for which the closing date is 31 January 2007.

(c) Overall Bank performance: The overall performance is rated satisfactory for:
    Good supervision and extension of the life span of the project.
    Flexible response to the needs of the country and the education sector.
    Good team work and communications with the Government.
    Field visits and meetings with the stakeholders and the beneficiaries.
    Strong support in procurement and finance.

All these efforts created a positive relationship between the Bank and the Borrower that led to a
successful implementation of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Borrower performance rated satisfactory.




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(not applicable)




                                                47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Chandra, A. and P. Kilby. 2004 Third Party Supervision Final Report, MOE, Male'.

Davis, D. 2003. Student Teacher Ratio Study. Maldives.

Manoj, V.N., G. Bulbulaage, A. Magu. 2003 Independent Mid-Term Assessment of the Third
Education and training Project. Maldives.

Ministry of Education. 1995 Republic of Maldives Education Master Plan (1996-2005).
Male'.

Ministry of Education 2000 Maldives Under-Served Schools Project: Report of the Needs
Assessment Case Studies. UNICEF, Male'

Ministry of Education. 2002-2004 Educational Statistics. Male'.

Ministry of Planning, Human Resource and Environment. 1997 Fifth National Development
Plan. Male'.

Owen, J. October 2003. Improving Monitoring and Evaluation in Schools. Male'.

Rorris A. 2002. Impact of the Overseas Scholarship Program Funded by the Second
Education and Training Project. Male'.

Ministry of Planning, Human Resource and Environment, January 2006. (draft) Seventh National
Development Plan 2006-2010. Republic of Maldives. Male'.

Waheed, I. 2000 Impact Study: SETP Meeting Management and Administration Skills at IMA.

World Bank, 1995. Country Assistance Strategy, Maldives.

World Bank, 1999. Country Economic Memorandum. 18340-MAL

World Bank, 2000. Country Assistance Strategy, Maldives.

World Bank, December 15, 2000. Development Credit Agreement. 3325-MAL

World Bank. February 2000 Project Appraisal Document, Maldives Third Education and
Training Project, 20069-MAL.

World Bank, Aides-Memoires, Back-to-office reports, Management Letters, Project Status
Reports/Implementation Status and Result reports of all implementation review missions
April 1999-January 2007.

World Bank, April 2001. ICR, Second Education and Training Project, Report No. 21916.


                                           48

World Bank, May 2004. Project Appraisal Document, Integrated Human Development
Project.

World Bank, 2006. Amended Development Credit Agreement.

World Bank, 2006. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing (credit). Third
Education and Training Project.

World Bank, September 2006. Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) Summary
Assessment Sheet.




                                        49

