Report No. PID6579
Project Name                     Maldavies-Third Education and Training (@)
Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Primary Education; Secondary Education;
Higher Education
Project ID                       MVPE55944
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCES,
EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR
Ghazee Building, Male', 20-05,
Republic of Maldives
Contact Person: Ms. Rasheeda Ali
Tel: 960-32-7353
Fax: 960-33-1578
Email: piu@planning.gov.mv
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 23, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 24, 1999
Projected Board Date             March 16, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government has identified issues which have impeded progress in the
development of the education sector and has set out its strategy to
address these in the Education Master Plan, 1996-2005. The sector issues
are:Limited access to secondary education and low internal efficiency of
the education system. High population growth together with increased
participation in basic education over the past decade have created
substantial demand for lower-secondary education, especially in the outer
atolls. Internal efficiency is low. Inequitable distribution of education
resources (facilities, materials and qualified teachers). Schools in the
atolls are more poorly equipped than schools in Male' where per student
expenditure is two to three times higher. About 23 percent of teachers in
atoll schools are untrained compared to 16 percent in Male'.High costs and
financial sustainability. Costs of education are rising and, with current
allocations, will become unsustainable unless more efficient use of
resources are implemented. Costs can be reduced through increasing STRs
and replacing expatriate teachers with qualified national teachers. The
number of expatriate teachers has remained high. Dependence on expatriate
workers (21,000 in 1998) is a reflection of the overall skills gap in the
national labor force.Sustainability and weak management capacity. The
estimated annual population growth rate of 2.8 percent will make it
difficult for the country to sustain a universal primary school system and
a rapidly expanding secondary education system. The dearth of good quality
data on the education system both at the central and atoll levels hinders
informed policy making, strategic planning for efficient use of resources
and the development of an equitable quality education system.The



Government's strategy as set out in the Education Master Plan (1996-2005)
aims to: (i) universalize primary education by 2000; (ii) expand the
provision of early childhood care and strengthen basic education services;
(iii) improve the quality and efficiency of education; (iv) expand lower-
and upper-secondary education and promote equity; (v) increase the
relevance of education programs through placing greater emphasis on local
environmental conditions at the primary and secondary levels; (vi)
increase skilled manpower for national development; (vii) improve and
strengthen the organization and management capacity of the education
system; (viii) control budgetary costs in line with national fiscal
capacity; and (ix) encourage partnership among the Government, parents,
communities and the private sector to support and direct educational
development.
2. Objectives
The project will improve education quality and efficiency, increase
equitable access, strengthen institutional capacity, and develop
professional skills in the national labor force.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA can draw on its expertise to provide professional educational advice,
informed by regional and international experience on a range of issues
including fellowship programs, examination reform in small countries,
curriculum development and teacher training. Through its working
relationship with ADB and with the Government, it can continue to help
ensure a coordinated approach to the further development of the new
umbrella post-secondary institution, the MCHE.
4. Description
The project supports activities grouped into the following four
components:(a) Improve education quality. The project will raise learning
achievements at the primary, lower- and upper-secondary levels by: (i)
improving the quality of teaching through primary and secondary teacher
education, providing atoll-based in-service teacher training, upgrading
teacher educators and facilities at the Institute of Teacher Education
(ITE) and providing staff development for school supervisors; (ii)
improving primary school curriculum and textbooks and developing education
publishing capacity; (iii) improving student assessment practices; and
(iv) developing a system of national assessment of student achievements
and a policy for reform of the public examination system. (b) Increase
equitable access. The Third Education and Training Project (TETP) will
expand secondary school access by: (i) constructing and upgrading
facilities at the Atoll Education Centers (AEC) in each of four atolls;
(ii) providing libraries, science equipment and laboratories at the AECs
in ten atolls; and (iii) training teachers and headmasters of these atoll
schools.(c) Strengthen institutional capacity and efficiency. The project
will help improve planning and implementation of education programs by
providing: (i) technical assistance (TA) to develop an Education
Management Information System (EMIS) and expanding the information links
to the atolls; and (ii) support to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
including construction advisors for two outer atolls.(d) Train qualified
nationals for the labor force. TETP will support overseas fellowships and
in-country skills training for selected professionals in the private and
public sectors. It will also support an evaluation of the fellowship
program, a labor market needs assessment, and one further study related to
- 2 -



educational quality. The project will support an expansion and upgrading
of business training programs at the Institute of Management and
Administration (IMA) by providing staff development, training and
educational materials.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 2.1
IBRD
IDA 17.6
Total Project Cost 19.7
6. Implementation
The expected effectiveness date is June 30, 2000 and the closing date is
March 31, 2005.The executing agency is the Ministry of Finance and
Treasury (MOFT). The Minister of Human Resources, Employment and Labor
(MHREL) will chair the Project Coordination Committee (PCC), consisting of
representatives from the President's Office, the Ministry of Education
(MOE), MOFT, the Maldives College of Higher Education (MCHE), the Ministry
of Construction and Public Works (MCPW), the Ministry of Planning and
National Development (MPND) and the Department of External Resources
(DER). Other parties will be called upon as necessary to participate in
the Committee. MHREL will be responsible for overall project
implementation and will assign day-to-day management and project
coordination responsibilities to its existing PIU. MOE will be responsible
for implementation of curriculum, assessment and examination initiatives,
teacher education and school supervision of project activities. MHREL,
with guidance from the Advisory Committee on Training and Skill
Development (ACTSD), will be responsible for administering the in-country
and overseas training programs. The PIU will carry out civil works
programs with TA from MCPW.The PCC, chaired by the Minister of MHREL, will
be responsible for project oversight and guidance. The PCC will monitor
project implementation progress and fiscal impact on a quarterly basis. A
semi-annual progress report on the implementation of the project's policy,
status of project activities and indicators, and financial situation
(including disbursements) will be prepared by the PIU with the assistance
of the MOFT and submitted to IDA in January and July each year. The
reports will include: (i) a component-by-component summary of
implementation (actual versus planned); (ii) a financial summary by
component, including the status of commitments and disbursements; (iii) an
updated implementation schedule and implementation plan with key
indicators; (iv) a list of issues and problems faced, with options for
resolution; (v) a progress report on project studies; (vi) the status of
technical assistance; and (vii) detailed procurement plans for the
subsequent year.
7. Sustainability
Factors critical for sustainability of project benefits include: (a)
Government commitment to continue to operate the fellowship program in an
objective, and transparent manner, basing awards on professional skill
needs; (b) the ability of fellowship recipients to complete their courses
of studies; (c) continued willingness of fellowship beneficiaries to
return to the Maldives following graduation; and, (d) the success of the
cost-recovery program. The long-term sustainability of the curriculum and
assessment reform initiatives will depend on the creation of
- 3 -



organizational structures in Male' that capitalize on the training
received under the project, but which do not create an undue burden on the
education budget. In line with other countries with small populations,
likely successful institutional arrangements should allow for flexibility
in assigning professionals to different tasks as needed; curriculum
personnel could, for instance, be required to work in the development of
diagnostic assessment instruments, public examinations development and
supervision of marking. Efforts to lessen the rate of dependency on
expatriate teachers will depend on the attractiveness of secondary-school
teaching careers for nationals. The long-term sustainability of the
post-secondary institutions will depend on their willingness to adjust
course offerings to meet labor market needs and on the quality of courses
offered. Cost-recovery is necessary to create a sustainable tertiary
education fund. The project incorporates cost-recovery measures in the
overseas fellowship and in-country skills training programs. Both programs
include substantial cost-recovery elements. Cost-recovery was initiated at
IMA under SETP; public and private sector overseas fellowship
beneficiaries are expected to pay 15 and 50 percent, respectively, of
their costs. A private sector Maldivian firm has instituted a fellowship
program which will support ten students per annum for overseas training.
It will use the SETP cost-recovery approach. Recovered costs under the
TETP will subsidize teacher salaries and provide financing to improve the
quality of training programs. Repayments from the fellowships to be
financed under the project are expected to reach over US$2.9 million. The
Government has agreed to: (a) a 15 percent cost-recovery charge for public
sector employees; and (b) the addition of a 5 percent annual interest fee
on a 60 percent cost-recovery charge for private sector fellowship
beneficiaries.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design has benefited considerably from experiences gained from
the first two IDA-supported education projects, the Education and Training
Project (completed in 1995) and the SETP (closing date, June 30, 2000) and
from international experiences in education reform, especially in other
countries in the region and in small island states. The following lessons
learned were taken into consideration in designing TETP. Expanding
secondary education in the atolls increased lower- and upper-secondary
enrollment, especially for girls. Previous overseas fellowship programs
contributed to a reduction of critical skill shortages. Some of the
initial recipients have attained senior positions in the public sector
(including the present Ministers of Finance and Education) and have
effectively used skills gleaned while studying abroad.The competitive
system used to select candidates for overseas fellowships is transparent
and appears to work reasonably well. A minority of fellowship
beneficiaries were unable to meet overseas academic standards.An enhanced
formal effective cost-recovery program for fellowship beneficiaries is
required to help develop a sustainable tertiary education fund. Fellowship
funds have to be monitored carefully to ensure adequate funding for the
entire period of overseas training. Prior to enrolling in a
post-secondary training program, many fellowship candidates from the
smaller outer atolls need a preparatory transition year which focuses on
English to enable them to compete on a level-playing field with students
from Male' and from the nearby atolls.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
- 4 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Maldives is one of the most environmentally
conscious nations in the world and has led campaigns for environmental
awareness and conservation. Increasing access to secondary education,
reforming teacher training programs and the official curriculum and
related textbooks will help develop environmental understanding and
sensitivities to issues such as global warming and rising oceans - major
national concerns. By providing a cadre of skilled youth in the various
atolls, the project will contribute to the decentralization of economic
activity outside Male', and help reduce population pressures in the
capital city. Project-supported construction in Male' will be modest and
confined to the extension of ITE; in the atolls it will primarily cover
the expansion of four AECs. Coral will not be used for these activities.
All school construction material will be imported, including sand,
aggregate for concrete, and timber. The expansion of AECs in the atolls
will be built on government-owned sites with suitable facilities for the
disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Vincent M. Greaney
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 5 -



