Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20069-MAL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION (US$17.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
FOR THE
THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
February 11, 2000
South Asia Regional Office
Education Sector Unit



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (Rf
Rf 1 1.77= US$ 1.00
USS 1.00 = Rf 0.085
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEC         =      Atoll Education Center
ACTSD              Advisory Committee on Training and Skill Development
ADB                Asian Development Bank
AusAid             Australian Aid Agency
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEM         =      Country Economic Memorandum
CPL                Currency Pool Loan
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DER                Department of External Resources
DflD               Department for International Development (UK)
DPE                Department of Public Examinations
EDC                Education Development Center
EMIS               Education Management Information System
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GER                Gross Enrollment Ratio
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IDB                Islamic Development Bank
IMA                Institute of Management and Administration
ITE                Institute of Teacher Education
JICA               Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MCHE               Maldives College of Higher Education
MCPW        =      Ministry of Construction and Public Works
MHREL       =      Ministry of Human Resources, Employment and Labor
MMA                Maldives Monetary Authority
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOFT               Ministry of Finance and Treasury
MPND               Ministry of Planning and National Development
NA                 National Assessment
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NPV                Net Present Value
NSB         =      National Scholarship Board
OECD               Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCC                Project Coordination Committee
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PMR                Project Management Report/Project Management Reporting
QCBS               Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SA                 Special Account
SASED              South Asia Region, Education Sector Unit
SBCQ        =      Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
SETP               Second Education and Training Project
STR                Student Teacher Ratio
TA          =      Technical Assistance
TETP        =      Third Education and Training Project
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Fakhruddin Ahmed
Acting Sector Director:    Grant Sinclair
Team Leader:    Vincent M. Greaney



MALDIVES
THIRD EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      5
3. Benefits and target population                                                     5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       11
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          11
2. Financial                                                                         12
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                      13
5. Social                                                                             14
6. Environmental assessment                                                           15
7. Participatory approach                                                             15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    15
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    17



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             17
2. Other                                                                                17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            17
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            19
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          27
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Sumrnary                                             28
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             43
MAP(S)
IBRD Map 30742



MALDIVES
Third Education and Training Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Education Sector Unit
Date: February II, 2000                           Team Leader: Vincent M. Greaney
Country Manager/Director: Fakhruddin Ahmed        Sector Manager/Director: Grant G. Sinclair
Project ID: P055944                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, ES - Secondary
Education, ET - Higher Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        1 Grant         1 Guarantee     Cl Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 17.6
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                      Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                      2.00           0.10           2.10
IBRD
IDA                                                             3.40           14.20         17.60
Total:                                                          5.40           14.30         19.70
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCES, EMPLOYMENT AND LABOR
Address: Ghazee Building, Male', 20-05, Republic of Maldives
Contact Person: Ms. Rasheeda Ali
Tel: 960-32-7353                 Fax: 960-33-1578                Email: piugplanning.gov.mv
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
2000        2001         2002       2003        2004         2005
Annual      3.3          5.4          4.1         2.0         1.8         1.0
Cumulative     3.3           8.7        12.8        14.8        16.6         17.6
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2000  Expected closing date:  03/31/2005
DCS AD OFo- D-tb 9 1 5



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will improve education quality and efficiency, increase equitable access, strengthen institutional
capacity, and develop professional skills in the national labor force.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achievement of the project development objective will be measured by:
* Number of secondary students taking and achieving pass level in national certificate examinations at
grades 10 and 12, by gender and location;
*   Learning achievement levels based on national assessment of mathematics at grades 4 and 7;
*   Enrollments by level, by gender and by location in targeted atolls;
*   Primary to secondary school transition rates, by gender and by location in targeted atolls;
*   Student-teacher ratios (STRs) in Male' and in the atolls;
*   Number of national teachers, by gender and location; and
*   Number of national professionals in the labor force.
B. Strategic Context
i. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 13997-MAL                       Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/04/95
Human resource development is the primary focus of the CAS approved by the Board on February 28,
1995. The International Development Association's (IDA) strategy in support of the Government's
objectives aims to: (a) sustain economic growth to raise income levels and reduce poverty in the outer
atolls; (b) equalize access to social services, especially to education and health services; (c) support private
sector development; and (d) strengthen institutional capacity. The 1999 Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) Report (18340-MAL), emphasizes the importance of addressing issues of low quality, rising
expenditure pressure and limited institutional capacity in the social sectors. The strategies being followed
by the project, and described in Section 3 below, support the CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government has identified issues which have impeded progress in the development of the education
sector and has set out its strategy to address these in the Education Master Plan, 1996-2005. The sector
issues are:
*   Limited access to secondary education and low internal efficiency of the education system. High
population growth together with increased participation in basic education over the past decade have
created substantial demand for lower-secondary education, especially in the outer atolls. Internal
efficiency is low. Nearly 50 percent of seventh graders repeat the grade or drop out. On average it
takes thirteen years schooling to produce a primary school (seven-year program) graduate and more
than five additional years of schooling to produce a lower-secondary school (three-year program)
graduate.
*   Inequitable distribution of education resources (facilities, materials and qualified teachers). Schools
in the atolls are more poorly equipped than schools in Male' where per student expenditure is two to
three times higher. About 23 percent of teachers in atoll schools are untrained compared to 16 percent
- 2 -



in Male'. Close to 40 percent of all certified school teachers have completed no more than grade 5 plus
one additional year of teacher training; many are unable to impart basic language skills in English.
*   High costs andfinancial sustainability. The education system has expanded considerably over the past
five to ten years as a result of high population growth, increased participation in primary education and
an expanding secondary education system. Costs of education are rising and, with current allocations,
will become unsustainable unless more efficient use of resources are implemented. Costs can be
reduced through increasing STRs and replacing expatriate teachers with qualified national teachers.
Between 1995 and 1998 the STR decreased from 31:1 to 25:1, the decrease being most pronounced in
Male'. The number of expatriate teachers has remained proportionately high. These factors have
contributed to an increase of Rf83 million in teacher costs. In 1998, expatriate teachers constituted 27
percent of the teaching force and accounted for 37 percent of the total teacher costs; close to three out
of four lower secondary teachers were expatriates. Dependence on expatriate workers is a reflection of
the overall skills gap in the national labor force. In 1998, 21,000 expatriate workers accounted for 28
percent of the labor force and were employed mainly in tourism and in other service sectors. Roughly
10 percent of the expatriates worked in the professional sector.
*   Sustainability and weak management capacity. The estimated annual population growth rate of 2.8
percent will put considerable pressure on the provision of social services, including education, and
make it difficult for the country to sustain a universal primary school system and a rapidly expanding
secondary education system. The dearth of good quality data on the education system both at the
central and atoll levels hinders informed policy making, strategic planning for efficient use of resources
and the development of an equitable quality education system.
The Government's strategy as set out in the Education Master Plan (1996-2005) aims to: (i) universalize
primary education by 2000; (ii) expand the provision of early childhood care and strengthen basic
education services; (iii) improve the quality and efficiency of education; (iv) expand lower- and
upper-secondary education and promote equity; (v) increase the relevance of education programs through
placing greater emphasis on local environmental conditions at the primary and secondary levels; (vi)
increase skilled manpower for national development; (vii) improve and strengthen the organization and
management capacity of the education system; (viii) control budgetary costs in line with national fiscal
capacity; and (ix) encourage partnership among the Government, parents, communities and the private
sector to support and direct educational development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Sector issues to be addressed by the project include access and equity, quality and internal efficiency, and
financial and institutional sustainability. Project strategies were selected on the basis of priorities set out in
the Education Master Plan, experience gained from the two previous IDA-supported education projects in
the Maldives, and international experience of education issues in small island states. The project will focus
on:
*   Expanding lower- and upper-secondary education by targeting students from the outer atolls;
* Enhancing the quality and internal efficiency of primary and secondary education by improving
curriculum and assessment practices, and reducing grade repetition, dropout rates and cycle costs;
*   Increasing the number of skilled personnel in the national labor force, especially the number of national
secondary school teachers;
*   Strengthening information-based policy and planning; and
- 3 -



*   Implementing measures to achieve financial and institutional sustainability by replacing expatriate
teachers with qualified nationals, increasing STRs, building national capacities in the professional
labor force, and enhancing cost-recovery measures in the fellowship programs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Anuex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
To achieve the development objective, the project supports activities grouped into the following four
components:
(a) Improve education qualitv. The project will raise learning achievements at the primary, lower- and
upper-secondary levels by: (i) improving the quality of teaching through primary and secondary teacher
education, providing atoll-based in-service teacher training, upgrading teacher educators and facilities at
the Institute of Teacher Education (ITE) and providing staff development for school supervisors; (ii)
improving primary school curriculum and textbooks and developing education publishing capacity; (iii)
improving student assessment practices; and (iv) developing a system of national assessment of student
achievements and a policy for reform of the public examination system.
(b) Increase equitable access. The Third Education and Training Project (TETP) will expand secondary
school access by: (i) constructing and upgrading facilities at the Atoll Education Centers (AEC) in each of
four atolls; (ii) providing libraries, science equipment and laboratories at the AECs in ten atolls; and (iii)
training teachers and headmasters of these atoll schools.
(c) Strengthen institutional capacity and efficiency. The project will help improve planning and
implementation of education programs by providing: (i) technical assistance (TA) to develop an Education
Management Information System (EMIS) and expanding the information links to the atolls; and (ii) support
to the Project lmplementation Unit (PIU) including construction advisors for two outer atolls.
(d) Train qualified nationals for the labor force. TETP will support overseas fellowships and in-country
skills training for selected professionals in the private and public sectors. It will also support an evaluation
of the fellowship program, a labor market needs assessment, and one further study related to educational
quality. The project will support an expansion and upgrading of business training programs at the Institute
of Management and Administration (IMA) by providing staff development, training and educational
materials.
-4 -



........ . . Indicative           Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
__.. ._(US$M)    Total    (US$M)  financing
Improve education quality          EE - Education      4.80       24.4      4.40      25.0
Increase equitable access          EE - Education      6.20       31.5      5.40       30.7
Strengthen institutional capacity and    EE - Education  1.30      6.6      0.80       4.5
efficiency
Train qualified nationals for the labor   EE - Education  7.40    37.6      7.00       39.8
force
Total Project Costs                   19.70      100.0     17.60      100.0
Interest during construction                 0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    19.70     100.0      17.60     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The policies and institutional reforms to be supported by the project are based on the Education Master
Plan, and the Fifth National Development Plan (1997-2001). Three key new policies to be supported by
the project are:
3 A change in the STR to increase the efficiency of the system and to allocate resources more equitably
between Male' and the atolls;
o An increase in fellowship cost-recovery to help develop a sustainable fund to meet the long-term
tertiary training needs of the Maldives; and
* A plan for the development of an economically efficient public examination system to reflect the need
for international credibility, enhanced quality of learning and more locally relevant curriculum content.
3. Benefits and target population:
Expanding access to lower-secondary education will increase the transition rate from basic to secondary
education from 30 to 50 percent (i.e., nearly 2,200 additional children). Enrollment in lower-secondary
schools will double and at upper-secondary levels will increase threefold. This will increase the
lower-secondary Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) rate from 48 to 67 percent and the upper-secondary GER
from 4 to 8 percent. Girls' GER in lower-secondary will increase from 51 to 73 percent and in
upper-secondary from 2 to 7 percent. Dropout and repetition rates at the upper levels of the primary cycle
are expected to decrease by about 30 percent. The proposed new curricula and accompanying assessment
systems will contribute to a higher quality of educational achievement, more relevant and interesting
learning materials and an enhanced sense of national culture and identity. The project will increase teacher
training capacity and pedagogical skills while reducing reliance on expatriate teachers and workers. The
pre-service teacher training program will gradually expand and by the end of the project will produce about
80 additional lower-secondary teachers each year. About 1,500 primary and 300 secondary teachers will
receive in-service training. The increase in the number of national teachers will gradually replace the need
for expatriate teachers and savings gained from reducing the number of expatriate teachers will amount to
roughly Rf44 million by 2005. Staff development training for about 200 officers at the central and atoll
levels and an improved information system between Male' and the atolls will lead to more efficient and
equitable delivery of education services. Increased access to secondary education and new primary
curricula and textbooks will foster an enhanced appreciation of critical environmental issues including
global warming.
-5 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The expected effectiveness date is June 30, 2000 and the closing date is March 31,
2005.
Institutional Arrangements:
Executing agencies: The executing agency is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (MOFT). The Minister
of Human Resources, Employment and Labor (MHREL) will chair the Project Coordination Committee
(PCC), consisting of representatives from the President's Office, the Ministry of Education (MOE), MOFT,
the Maldives College of Higher Education (MCHE), the Ministry of Construction and Public Works
(MCPW), the Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND) and the Department of External
Resources (DER). Other parties will be called upon as necessary to participate in the Committee.
Implementing agencies. MHREL will be responsible for overall project implementation and will assign
day-to-day management and project coordination responsibilities to its existing PIU. MOE will be
responsible for implementation of curriculum, assessment and examination initiatives, teacher education
and school supervision of project activities. MHREL, with guidance from the Advisory Committee on
Training and Skill Development (ACTSD), will be responsible for administering the in-country and
overseas training programs. The PIU will carry out civil works programs with TA from MCPW. It will be
staffed with twelve persons, including a project director, project manager, civil works officer, fellowship
administrator, four finance and accounts staff, two procurement staff, and two general administrative staff.
During appraisal, IDA's procurement specialist reviewed and confirmed the PIU's capacity to carry out the
project's procurement activities (see Annex 6). The PIU has prepared a procurement schedule and bidding
documents for the first year of the project.
Project oversight and guidance: The PCC, chaired by the Minister of MHREL, will be responsible for
project oversight and guidance. The PIU will report to the PCC, which will meet every quarter to approve
major contract awards, to ensure that responsibilities are clearly communicated to the implementation
agencies, and suitable and timely reporting is undertaken. The ACTSD, with representation from the public
and private sectors, will ensure that all fellowship awards meet agreed criteria and respond to national
needs.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The existing PIU, for the Second Education
and Training Project (SETP), which will manage the TETP, has strong internal and external control
systems and has provided project documents in a timely manner for auditing and for review by the project
financiers. TETP will disburse under the quarterly Project Management Reporting (PMR) system. The PIU
is fully staffed and its staff will be provided with adequate training in project financial management,
procurement and disbursement. The management reports, including a commitment monitoring report, which
will compare the total commitment for each contract with the funds available under TETP, will be
submitted to the PCC and IDA within 45 days following the end of each quarter. The PIU, with the
assistance of the MOFT, will establish and operate a Special Account (SA) in accordance with practices
acceptable to IDA, whose disbursements into the SA will be based on half-yearly cash forecasts contained
in PMRs. To facilitate the first IDA disbursement into the SA, the PIU will submit the first Management
Report cash forecasts to IDA no later than 30 days following project approval by IDA's Board of
Executive Directors. The PIU will prepare annual reports, which will include a list of sources and
applications of funds, a list of project fixed assets, with the four PMRs attached, and such other financial
statements and schedules as may be agreed from time to time with IDA. The annual report will be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Audit reporting will follow international standards on
-6 -



auditing, comply with the requirements of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and be submitted to
IDA within six months following the end of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The Government has provided assurances that it will: (i)
support monitoring and evaluation of the project on an on-going basis, in accordance with agreed
benchmarks and indicators; (ii) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a report including the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities of the project to be sent to IDA by the Mid-term Review;
and (iii) review progress and take whatever measures are deemed necessary by IDA to ensure the efficient
completion of the project. Working with the MOE and the ACTSD, the PIU will coordinate and prepare
semester reports, annual implementation plans, and review progress against key project indicators. Formal
evaluations will focus on the input, process and outcomes of the curriculum, textbook, teacher training,
assessment, management and fellowship project initiatives. Adjustments to project activities will be made in
light of evaluation findings. The Government accepts the concept of Third Party Supervision as a
monitoring tool in Bank-financed projects. By January 1, 2001, the Government will develop a mechanism
in consultation with IDA for monitoring the quality of project inputs.
IDA supervision will be carried out biannually by the South Asia Region's Education Sector Unit
(SASED). A Mid-term Review of project implementation progress will be undertaken in the second
semester of 2002. A supervision plan for the project is outlined in the Government's Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). During the joint annual review of implementation plans and budgets, to be held around
November of each year, the status of project implementation will be examined and goals set for the
following year.
The PCC will monitor project implementation progress and fiscal impact on a quarterly basis. A
semi-annual progress report on the implementation of the project's policy, status of project activities and
indicators, and financial situation (including disbursements) will be prepared by the PIU with the assistance
of the MOFT and submitted to IDA in January and July each year. The reports will include: (i) a
component-by-component summary of implementation (actual versus planned); (ii) a financial summary by
component, including the status of commitments and disbursements; (iii) an updated implementation
schedule and implementation plan with key indicators; (iv) a list of issues and problems faced, with options
for resolution; (v) a progress report on project studies; (vi) the status of technical assistance; and (vii)
detailed procurement plans for the subsequent year.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative investment scenarios were contrasted. Options were examined taking into consideration
capacities of sector institutions, project components, implementation feasibility, and cost-effectiveness.
Enroll students in schools in Male' or in large consolidated AECs: Expanding schools in Male' would be
very expensive and would add to the congestion in the capital. It would limit educational opportunities for
girls, as parents are reluctant to send their daughters to Male'. Sending students to one of the four large
AECs built under SETP (Baa, Lhaviyani, Gaafu Dhaalu, and Gnaviyani) was not a viable option, on
distance grounds.
Lower-secondary schools offer single grade classes: SETP had underlined the advantages of creating
lower-secondary schools where enrollment (within the atoll's catchment areas) was sufficient to support
parallel classes. These schools offered relatively broad curriculum coverage and resulted in more
- 7 -



cost-effective units than single-grade/class schools. Comparative analyses highlighted the cost-effective
advantages of expanding the facilities in the existing schools in Haa Alifu, Lhaviyani, Alifu Dhaalu and
Thaa to enable them to operate with parallel classes. A parallel-class strategy addresses the demand for
lower-secondary places from these and from nearby islands more efficiently than offering single grade
classes.
One-subject specialist teachers: Single discipline teachers would be costly, particularly in the atoll
junior-secondary schools where the number of students, and therefore streams, would limit the number of
potential subject periods. Two-subject specialist teachers would offer schools a broader range of subject
offerings and enhanced cost-effectiveness. Since ITE graduates could be required to teach anywhere in the
country, a two-discipline approach was deemed preferable and had the added educational value of
providing opportunities for teachers to make linkages across subjects.
Continue to recruit expatriate teachers: Recruiting expatriate teachers is costly. In comparison with
national teachers, expatriates tend to be less sensitive to cultural issues, less able to communicate
effectively with students, less committed to their schools and require longer orientation periods. The project
will train lower-secondary school national teachers in ITE, and decrease dependence on expatriate teachers
resulting in teacher salary savings of Rf44 million by 2005.
Offer all post-secondary education courses outside of the country or in the Maldives: In small island
states such as the Maldives, it is not cost effective to establish a university which would offer a broad range
of courses in expensive disciplines such as medicine and engineering where student numbers would be
small. Several alternatives for organizing post-secondary education in the Maldives were examined and
rejected. Establishing university campuses in the Maldives would be less cost-effective than sending
students to selected institutions in the region. Maintaining a number of post-secondary institutions
in-country as separate entities within each individual "parent" ministry would be inefficient. Consolidating
a range of skills programs under one ministry could lead to lack of autonomy in providing the appropriate
programs. It was decided to continue to support a fellowship program for overseas post-secondary
education programs and to offer a range of training programs under an umbrella institute - the MCHE. The
project will support the expansion and enhancement of in-country training programs in the MCHE and a
complementary program for overseas training mostly in regional institutions to meet national priorities.
In-country training will include bridging programs for upgrading public and private sector employees and
preparing students for overseas training.
Retain present link with a UK Examination Board: The Government spends in the region of US$400,000
on public examination papers developed, printed and corrected in the UK. While the examinations have
international credibility, in the main, they are based on unsuitable curricula for Maldivian students. The
present arrangement limits the opportunity of developing culturally and linguistically relevant national
curricula. The project will support a detailed study of the likely effects of changes in the examination
system on government and family finances, curriculum, student learning and on certificate credibility at
national and international levels. It will enable the Government to develop a new policy and long-term
strategy on public examination reform, designed to enhance the quality of student learning while
maintaining international credibility.
-8 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Inadequate educational quality;   Credit 1981-MAL                Completed     Completed
inequitable access to secondary   Education and Training Project
education, especially for girls;  (1989-1995)
shortages of skilled staff; lack of labor
market information; and poor
institutional capacity.
Poor educational quality; inequitable   Credit 270 1-MAL             S             S
access to secondary schools; shortages  Second Education and Training
of national secondary teachers; limited  Project (1996-2000).
skill training and shortages of post-
secondary skilled workers; and poor
financial management.
Other development agencies
Department for International       Teacher In-Service Support
Development (DflD)
Commonwealth Secretariat           Distance Education Project
Islamic Development Bank (IDB)     Northern Regional Secondary
School (NRSS) financed jointly
with IDA Credit 270 1-MAL
Australian Aid Agency (AusAid)     Selected ITE activities jointly
with IDA Credit 2701 -MAL
Japan International Cooperation    Construction of sixth primary
Agency (JICA)                      school in Male'
Asian Development Bank (ADB)       Assisted with the development
of the Education Master Plan.
Support for post-secondary
education (MCHE).
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-9-



3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design:
The project design has benefited considerably from experiences gained from the first two IDA-supported
education projects, the Education and Training Project (completed in 1995) and the SETP (closing date,
June 30, 2000) and from international experiences in education reform, especially in other countries in the
region and in small island states. The following lessons learned were taken into consideration in designing
TETP.
*   Expanding secondary education in the atolls increased lower- and upper-secondary enrollment,
especially for girls. It also helped to reduce the number of atoll students seeking secondary education in
Male', thus decreasing the demand for scarce housing in the capital.
* Previous overseas fellowship programs contributed to a reduction of critical skill shortages. Some of
the initial recipients have attained senior positions in the public sector (including the present Ministers
of Finance and Education) and have effectively used skills gleaned while studying abroad. Experiences
in many present and former developing countries (e.g., Indonesia and Korea) have highlighted the
economic benefits of well-thought-out overseas training programs.
*   The competitive system used to select candidates for overseas fellowships is transparent and appears to
work reasonably well. The private rates of return, especially to fellowship beneficiaries from the
private sector are substantial and justify increased cost-recovery charges. A minority of fellowship
beneficiares were unable to meet overseas academic standards.
-   An enhanced formal effective cost-recovery program for fellowship beneficiaries is required to help
develop a sustainable tertiary education fund. Tertiary education studies in Romania, Argentina, in
other Latin American countries, and in Russia have underlined the benefits that can accrue from an
effective cost-recovery program.
-   Fellowship funds have to be monitored carefully to ensure adequate funding for the entire period of
overseas training. TETP financial monitoring procedures will ensure that costs do not excede financial
commitments.
-   Prior to enrolling in a post-secondary training program, many fellowship candidates from the smaller
outer atolls need a preparatory transition year which focuses on English to enable them to compete on a
level-playing field with students from Male' and from the nearby atolls.
*   The PIU has experienced core staff with the pre-requisite skills to implement the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government's commitment to TETP is reflected in its involvement in the development and design of the
project. It is also reflected in its timely implementation and disbursement of the first two education and
training projects which featured a number of activities (e.g., school construction, fellowships and teacher
training) similar to those in TETP. It has developed and implemented a system of identifying training
priorities based on an annual needs assessment of all government departments and the private sector,
reviewing applications, and administering the program in a transparent manner. It has agreed to implement
an enhanced cost-recovery mechanism for private sector fellowship beneficiaries to help etablish a tertiary
education fund.
- 10-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA has a decade long experience of the education sector in the Maldives. It can draw on its expertise and
that of its consultants to provide professional educational advice, informed by regional and international
experience on a range of issues including fellowship programs, examination reform in small countries,
curriculum development and teacher training. It has also helped integrate education activities into the
macro-economic situation of the country. Through its close working relationship with ADB and with the
Government, it can continue to help ensure a coordinated approach to the further development of the new
umbrella post-secondary institution, the MCHE.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic and social returns. Project investments, if successfully implemented, will yield direct savings
through replacing expatriate teachers and other professional workers with nationals. Project investments
will yield indirect benefits in the form of improving the quality of education in atoll schools, increasing
access to secondary education, and enhancing learning through a new curriculum, improved textbook
content and introduction of formal assessment procedures. When the benefits from improved levels of
general education in the population are factored in, the project's benefits would be substantial.
Cost effectiveness, system inefficiencies and project design. The project will enhance teacher productivity
by providing more multi-subject teachers in secondary schools and more multi-grade teachers in small
primary schools. It will achieve an overall STR of 25:1 by 2002, rising to 27:1 by 2005 and ensure that
similar STRs are obtained both in Male' (currently at 22:1) and in the rest of the country. The expansion of
the teacher training facilities, and the increase in STRs will have an impact on the system's dependency on
non-national teachers and costs. The number of expatriate teachers will decline substantially and their share
of the total teaching force will decrease from 23 perecent to 8 percent, resulting in an estimated total
reduction in teacher's salaries of Rf44 million by 2005.
Increasing access to secondary education. The project will support the expansion of facilities in four atoll
secondary schools and provide them (and six other AECs) with furniture, equipment, and learning
materials. The expansion of these schools will help increase the flow of students, reduce repetition and
dropout rates at the end of the primary cycle, and reduce cycle costs by 11 percent. By reducing school and
boarding expenses, it will enhance the opportunity for parents to send their children to atoll schools instead
of Male' schools. Expanding schools in Male' is expensive, adds to housing congestion, and limits
educational opportunities for girls as parents are reluctant to send their daughters to the capital.
Between 1998 and 2005, the expansion of access to secondary education will increase lower-secondary
enrollment by over 50 percent and upper-secondary enrollment by almost threefold during the same period.
This will lead to an increase in the proportion of students in the respective age cohorts; the GER for
lower-secondary will increase from 48 to 67 percent and for upper-secondary from 4 to 8 percent.
Skill development and fellowships. The project will continue to support in-country and overseas
skill-training programs initiated under earlier projects. It will play a major role in fostering government
policies to reduce professional skill shortages in the public and private sectors and decrease dependency on
expatriate labor. In-country and overseas training should be cost effective and the long-term benefits should
- 11 -



exceed costs by a considerable amount (See Annex 4). In-country training for occupations such as
accountant, manager, secretary and supervisor is being carried out at the IMA at an average cost of
US$5,600 per student (including foregone income). This unit cost is expected to increase to approximately
US$6,400 per student during the project period and then decline as the build-up stage of the institution is
completed. This cost is well below the expected benefits from these types of training. The average cost of
overseas fellowships (US$50,800) is well below the expected benefits that would accrue from this type of
training (US$84,000). The advantages of pursuing current policies are likely to persist until the domestic
labor demand for these skill categories becomes saturated.
Cost Recovery: The SETP introduced cost-recovery for post-secondary training. In-country training
programs offered at IMA include cost-recovery of up to 30 percent of training cost; cost recovery charges
for overseas fellowships were set at 15 percent for public sector and 50 percent for private sector
beneficiaries. A recent analysis revealed that the average private sector graduate earns double to triple the
amount of a colleague with the same qualifications in the public sector. Cost-recovery charges expressed as
a percentage of annual income for private sector fellowship beneficiaries are substantially less than those
for people with similar qualifications in the public sector. Over a twelve year period, for example, an
engineer working in the public sector would expect to pay 14 percent of his monthly income in SETP
cost-recovery charges while his counterpart in the private sector would pay 6 percent. Under TETP, the
Government has agreed to increase cost-recovery charges from private sector fellowship beneficiaries to 60
percent and to apply a 5 percent interest charge over the repayment period. Recovered fellowship costs,
estimated at US$2.9 million will help create a tertiary fund to support future fellowships.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Sector expenditure. The expanding role of the Government's involvement in education has substantially
increased public expenditure in the sector. Between 1990 and 1998, there was a fourfold increase (from
Rf79 million to Rf342 million). During the same period, Education's share of the public budget increased
from 11 to 17 percent and its share of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 5.7 to 8.0 percent. The
escalating growth in education spending reflects: (a) the overall increase in student numbers and the
continuing increase in the number of students in government schools, compared to private and community
schools; (b) increased Government responsibility for the recurrent cost of schools that had previously been
staffed and financed by the private sector; (c) increased student numbers in the relatively high unit cost of
the secondary and post-secondary sub-sectors; and (d) increased numbers of expatriate teachers required to
meet accelerating teacher demand. Projections show that the education budget under current policies is
expected to grow by 6 percent per year and with the addition of the project investment by 6.6 percent (i.e.,
close to the projected GDP growth rate). If the sector investment requirements outlined in the Government's
ambitious Education Master Plan were to be met, the education budget would have to increase by 9
percent.
Fiscal Impact:
The financial impact of the project cost on the public budget is relatively small. The project will account
for about 2 percent of the budget during the first year and increase to about 3 percent in the second year
and then gradually decline to just 0.4 percent by the end of the project. During the first few years of
implementation, the project will have a financial impact on the sector budget that will decrease as
implementation progresses. The share of project costs to the sector budget will be 12 percent at project
commencement in 2000, increasing to 18 percent in 2001 and gradually decreasing thereafter to 3 percent
by 2005. The fiscal impact of the project on Government and sector budgets is lower than these levels, as
the Government's share of total project cost is limited to 11 percent. The project's effect on the budget is
well within the Government's fiscal capability and is readily sustainable.
- 12 -



Recurrent expenditure for project investments during project implementation and subsequent operation
periods, primarily on operation and maintenance, is relatively small. The government has an exemplary
record in maintaining educational institutions; operation and maintenance expenditure amounted to 5
percent of the recurrent budget in 1998. The project will be implemented by the Government institutions
that successfully implemented the first two education projects and project costs are expected to be within
the absorptive capacity of the education sector.
3. Technical:
Technical studies supported by the ongoing SETP were utilized in project preparation. These studies
covered development of teacher education, curriculum development and examination reform. The project
will draw on examples of "good practice" in small island states in designing a public examination system to
raise the quality of student learning and ensure international acceptability of qualifications. The
introduction of new curricula and textbooks will be supported by ongoing formative evaluation.
Sample-based achievement assessment will be used to monitor changes in the quality of student learning
over the life of the project. The fellowship program will be supported by a comprehensive evaluation of the
existing SETP project; lessons learned to date have been incorporated into the present project.
A TA program will support institutional capacity development in the MOE and at the AECs. Project
design, preparation and implementation drew on the experiences and personnel involved in the previous two
education and training projects.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Government demonstrated its implementation competence during the first two education projects. The
preparation team and government officials identified the respective roles of the various implementation
units, and agreed on staffing plans, procedures for tendering and procurement, selection of consultants, and
reporting (management and financial), and the preparation of audit reports. IDA reached agreement with
the Government on procurement tender documentation, consultant selection, reporting procedures, and new
financial and management regulations.
b. Project management:
The PIU, which managed the two previous IDA projects, will coordinate implementation of all project
activities. Senior government officials in each relevant agency will act as coordinators of TETP-related
activities. The PCC will oversee the project and focus on policy decisions, coordination and timely
implementation. These arrangements are satisfactory to IDA. The government's implementation capability
was assessed by procurement and financial specialists during the appraisal mission, and was considered
adequate (see Annex 6).
- 13 -



5. Social:
IDA's strategy in supporting the government's objectives is to sustain strong growth, raise incomes and
reduce poverty in the outer atolls. The dispersed nature of the Maldives is a major barrier to efficient
communication and constrains access to health, education and other social services. Despite this, the
country has developed an extensive network of primary education and health-care services, and its social
indicators have improved significantly in recent years. The economic development concentrated on Male'
and neighboring islands, however, has resulted in wide regional disparities within the country in the range
of available basic commodities and in access to health, education and basic facilities. The economy has
been growing at an average of 10 percent during the 1980s and 6 to 7 percent per year in the 1990s. Per
capita income has increased substantially, from about US$200 in 1979 to about US$1,200 in 1998.
Despite this growth, there is a sharp discrepancy in income distribution between the inhabitants of the outer
atolls and those in Male' (United Nations Development Programme [UNDP], June 1998). Urban slums are
limited to the capital city and in other large population centers, and poverty is found mainly in sparsely
populated areas and in the outer atolls. Child labor in the Maldives is not an issue and is sufficiently
regulated to prevent abuses.
The national goals envisage the provision of education within a cultural and social environment that focuses
on equal access to educational services for all children. The project aims at improving education quality,
access and equity to all citizens, and fits within the framework of strengthening national cohesion. By
focusing on atoll students, the project will increase participation of disadvantaged groups within the
education system. Improved quality and increased educational access to atoll students will be attained
through expanding and enhancing secondary schooling and teacher education. Evidence from a range of
developed and developing countries suggests that better-trained teachers in the atolls would improve
education and learning outcomes of the poor and disadvantaged students. Expanding access to secondary
education for atoll students will increase opportunities for post-secondary training. The introduction of an
extra bridging year will increase the likelihood that they can compete on a more equal footing in the labor
market. The project will also relieve the financial pressure on parents in the targetted atolls who otherwise
would have sent their children to Male' for secondary education. Through increasing training opportunities
for female students, the project will enhance work opportunities and contribute to reducing gender
disparities in the labor market, where women account for 15 percent of the work force. Based on
experiences in other countries, secondary schooling for girls will contribute to better health and
child-rearing practices, and lower family sizes. Given the very limited employment opportunities on the
atolls, the expansion of the secondary school system to these areas will provide additional sources of
revenue and employment.
- 14 -



6. Environmental assessment                 Environment Category: C
The Maldives is one of the most environmentally conscious nations in the world and has led campaigns for
environmental awareness and conservation. The Government has attempted to integrate environmental
considerations into all aspects of economic activity. It developed and implemented a national action plan
and identified priorities, which resulted in a set of environmental projects and programs. Considerable
insights were gained into environmental sensitivities during the first two education projects. The project is
not expected to have a negative impact on the environment. On the contrary, increasing access to secondary
education, reforming teacher training programs and the official curriculum and related textbooks will help
develop environmental understanding and sensitivities to issues such as global warming and rising oceans -
major national concerns. By providing a cadre of skilled youth in the various atolls, the project will
contribute to the decentralization of economic activity outside Male', and help reduce population pressures
in the capital city and environmental strains associated with urban over-crowding. Project-supported
construction in Male' will be modest and confined to the extension of ITE; in the atolls it will primarily
cover the expansion of four AECs. Coral will not be used for these activities. All school construction
material will be imported, including sand, aggregate for concrete, and timber. The expansion of AECs in
the atolls will be built on government-owned sites with suitable facilities for the disposal of liquid and solid
wastes.
7. Participatory Approach(key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During project preparation consultations were held with Government ministers, senior officials of line
ministries, teachers, tertiary students and with representatives of the business community. Visits were made
to atolls included in the project and meetings held with atoll chiefs and members of councils. Government
agencies, representatives of ITE and other post-secondary institutions were consulted during project
preparation. Broad representation and participation in project activities related to curriculum development,
national assessment and to the development of a public examination policy will be features of project
implementation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
IDA consulted with the Government and ADB to avoid unnecessary overlap in the development of the
MCHE; IDA's support is focused on the ITE and the IMA constituent colleges of MCHE.
F. Sustainability and Risks
t. Sustainability.
Factors critical for sustainability of project benefits include:
*   Government commitment to continue to operate the fellowship program in an objective and transparent
manner, basing awards on professional skill needs;
*   The ability of fellowship recipients to complete their courses of studies;
*   Continued willingness of fellowship beneficiaries to return to the Maldives following graduation; and,
*   The success of the cost-recovery program.
The long-term sustainability of the curriculum and assessment reform initiatives will depend on the creation
of organizational structures in Male' that capitalize on the training received under the project, but which do
not create an undue burden on the education budget. In line with other countries with small populations,
- 15 -



likely successful institutional arrangements should allow for flexibility in assigning professionals to
different tasks as needed; curriculum personnel could, for instance, be required to work in the development
of diagnostic assessment instruments, public examinations development and supervision of marking.
Efforts to lessen the rate of dependency on expatriate teachers will depend on the attractiveness of
secondary-school teaching careers for nationals. The long-term sustainability of the post-secondary
institutions will depend on their willingness to adjust course offerings to meet labor market needs and on
the quality of courses offered.
Cost-recovery is necessary to create a sustainable tertiary education fund. The project incorporates
cost-recovery measures in the overseas fellowship and in-country skills training programs. Both programs
include substantial cost-recovery elements. Cost-recovery was initiated at IMA under SETP; public and
private sector overseas fellowship beneficiaries are expected to pay 15 and 50 percent, respectively, of their
costs. A private sector Maldivian firm has instituted a fellowship program which will support ten students
per annum for overseas training. It will use the SETP cost-recovery approach. Recovered costs under the
TETP will subsidize teacher salaries and provide financing to improve the quality of training programs.
Repayments from the fellowships to be financed under the project are expected to reach over USS2.9
million. The Government has agreed to: (a) a 15 percent cost-recovery charge for public sector employees;
and (b) the addition of a 5 percent annual interest fee on a 60 percent cost-recovery charge for private
sector fellowship beneficiaries.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Sufficient numbers of national teachers      N         An incentive scheme will include fellowships for
may not want to be posted to school in the             teachers from the atolls. An employment bond
atolls to fulfill the targets.                          system will apply.
There may be lack of political will to       M         An implementation plan for changing STRs will
increase STRs.                                         be monitored through the annual review process.
The fellowship beneficiaries may resist      M          Cost-recovery will be implemented through
increased cost-recovery measures.                      salary deductions at source.
Delays in awarding fellowships may lead      N          Fellowship awards will be confined to the first
to lack of funds for completing programs                three years of the project.
once the project closes.
From Components to Outputs
Government commitment to implementing        M          A cost-recovery mechanism will be in place
efficiency, equity and cost-recovery                    prior to project implementation and cost
measures may waiver.                                   recovery efforts subsequently monitored.
Fellowship beneficiaries may not             M          Mechanisms will be built into the bonding
complete their programs or may return to                system to ensure that people return to their
jobs that do not utilize their skills                   positions
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 16 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The imposition of an interest charge (5 percent) and an increase in cost recovery charge (from 50 to 60
percent) for private sector fellowship holders prompted considerable discussion and debate. Perceptions of
inequity have arisen due to different levels of financial support awarded for fellowships under SETP and
under TETP.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard legal opinion regarding the DCA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During Negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will:
*   Carry out, in accordance with programs, procedures, timetables, and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA training and fellowships, technical assistance, and studies under the project;
*   Provide a revised PIP by March 1, 2000;
a Prepare and furnish to the IDA for its approval, a plan for developing a sustainable fund for tertiary
education by January 1, 2002 and implement an IDA-approved plan;
*   Carry out accounting and auditing of the project in accordance with the Financial Plan outlined in the
PMRs;
*   Upgrade the project accounting system by June 1, 2000;
-   Achieve an STR of 25:1 by 2002 and 27:1 by 2005, with equal STRs in Male' and in the rest of the
country;
-   Develop an implementation plan to carry out national assessment of student achievement levels by
September 1, 2000; and
*   Support independent monitoring and evaluation of project inputs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I1. b) Not applicable.
11 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 17-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Vincent .y GreanX                                                                         J  .Snli  F kn e~
Q)aZt G. Sinclair
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Accelerate human resourc Education, training, social  National, education, social  Investment in human
development to contribute and economic indicators, by and economic statistics.    resources development
to social and economic    gender and location.    CEM and occasional sector would help achieve
development and reduce                            reports. National labor and equitable growth and
poverty in the outer atolls,                      employment statistics.   alleviate poverty in the outer
atolls.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Improve education quality Learning achievement test  National assessment of  Raising levels of learning
and efficiency, increase   scores.                mathematics in grades 4 and contributes to human
equitable access,                                 7, baseline and end of   resource development.
strengthen institutional                          project reports. Public
capacity, and develop                             examination performance   Increasing equitable access
professional skills in the                        reports.                 to education will contribute
labor force.                                                               to poverty reduction.
Primary to secondary-    Annual MOE statistics.
school transition rates, by   Beneficiary assessments.   Developing human resource
gender, by location.                              capacities contributes to
Annual MOE statistics.    social and economic
Enrollments by level, by    Beneficiary assessments.   development.
gender, by location.
National labor statistics.
Number of graduates and   Fellowship tracer studies.
other personnel in the labor
force.
- 19-



Key Peiformance
Hierarchy of Objectives        lndicators  i       1 Moniioring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Improved education       Increase in student      Results of national      Assessment system designed
quality through enhanced   achievement levels.    assessment (NA) of student and in place by end of year
teacher education and                             achievement 2001 and 2005, one.
training, curriculum,                             by gender, by location.
textbooks and student                             Analysis of use of NA
assessment system.                                results by MOE.
Increase in secondary    Analysis of examination
student attainment levels.   data, by gender, and
location.
STRs, by location (Male',  Classroom observation
atolls) for primary/     studies of TETP-trained
secondary. Proportion of   teachers.
resources (teachers,
materials, training) allocated Comparisons of pre- and
to outer atoll schools.  post-project curricula and
textbooks.
Increased equitable access Transition rates for students MOE/EMIS data and  Parents and students value
in outer atolls through  (especially females) from    reports.             increased educational
provision of classrooms,    outer atolls.                                  opportunities. Teaching will
materials and teacher                                                      Tbe considered a valued
training.                Number of teacher                                 profession.
education entrants from
atolls.
Strengthened efficiency,  Improvement in availability Case study.          Political will to increase
management and           of timely and valid data.                         efficiency and continued
implementation capacityof                                                  MOE commitment to
national education system   Number of policy and  Analysis of MOE policy    improve management in
through training and EMIS  management decisions   decisions. EMIS reports.   atolls. Competing demand
development.             attributable to EMIS.                             for Government resources
may affect availability of
funds.
Trained and qualified    Number of professionals    National statistics and  Overseas-trained personnel
nationals for the labor    trained overseas and at  project supervision reports; return to Maldives and to
force througlh in-country    MCHE. Number of      fellowship tracer studies and positions that utilize their
training, overseas       national junior-secondary   EMIS data.            professional training.
fellowships and labor    school teachers trained.                          National training courses
market studies.                                                            meet skill shortages.
- 20 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
Provide educational      US$4.8 million           Quarterly disbursement    Continued Government
resources at national level                       reports; semi-annual     commitment to reforms.
(to improve teacher training,                     implementation progress    Availability of competent
curriculum, textbooks,                            reports; and ongoing     personnel to conduct
supervision and                                   evaluations including    evaluation studies.
assessment).                                      qualitative studies.
Provide classrooms,      US$6.2 million           Beneficiary assessment   Atoll students, girls and
materials and trained                             reports and physical and    parents value and avail of
teachers in outer atolls.                         financial audit reports.  opportunities for secondary
education.
Strengthen national capacity US$1.3 million       Annual workplans and     Adequate training and
to manage education system.                       budgets; action plans    technical assistance
resulting from findings of   obtained.
evaluation studies and
monitoring reports.
Increase professional skill  US$7.4 million       Fellowship tracer studies   Fellowship awardees
levels in the labor force.                        and skills training      complete their programs,
performance assessments  return and remain in the
reports.                 country, and contribute to
cost-recovery.
- 21 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.80 million
Improve Education Quality
This component will raise learning achievements by improving quality inputs. The project will support
teacher education and training, update the curriculum and produce new textbooks, enhance educational
assessment capacity in the schools and develop a public examination policy system. TETP will support two
activities begun under SETP: (a) fellowships for students who began their program under SETP, who are
currently overseas, but have still to complete their degree programs; and (b) teacher education initiatives to
complement those supported under SETP.
Sub-Component A: Teacher Education and Training (US$3.64 million)
The project will:
(a) Improve the quality of primary school teaching by: (i) upgrading 18 primary school teacher educators,
including 16 in-service specialists in the atolls, will be upgraded to the Dip.Ed. level and an additional four
to B.Ed. level; (ii) upgrade about 110 untrained primary teachers (mainly female), through a bridging
program, to meet the "O" level equivalent entry requirements for the primary program; (iii) train about
1,150 primary school teachers, through an atoll-based in-service training program; and (iv) develop and
produce curriculum, teaching and learning materials for the revised primary teacher education program
(b) Improve the quality and expand pre-service secondary teacher education by: (i) increasing the annual
output of lower-secondary school teachers from 30 to about 80 by the end of the project, upgrading 12
national teachers to be trained as future teacher educators, upgrading six teacher educators to bachelor, and
six to masters degree levels; (ii) introducing a senior secondary teacher education program in year 5 of the
project (after six teacher education staff have completed masters degree programs overseas) with a planned
annual output of 20-25 to be offered jointly by the national and link institutions which would award the
degree; and (iii) staff development for 300 secondary teachers in core subject areas in subject matter and
pedagogy.
(c) Support staff development of school supervisors and ITE staff through continuing link arrangements
between ITE and at least two institutions, similar to those established under SETP. TETP will support link
institution staff visits for professional development activities to ITE for a total of six person months, and
ITE staff visits to the link institution for a total of 5 visits. It will also support TA to review the structure
and operation of school supervision; and a series of professional development workshops in teacher
supervision and leadership skills, involving both national staff and international TA.
(d) Provide additional facilities to meet the expanded needs of the secondary teacher training and in-service
teacher training programs. These include: (i) construction of 5 classrooms; 2 laboratories; staff and
administrative offices; resource/study rooms; and (ii) educational materials, equipment, furniture and
library books.
- 22 -



Sub-component B: Curriculum and Textbook Development, and Assessment (US$0.60 million)
TETP will enhance curricula and textbook quality and will support improvement in a range of educational
assessment approaches.
The project will:
(a) Develop primary school curriculum by: (i) reviewing existing curricula and textbooks with key
stakeholders, including teachers, parents, education officials, and members of the business sector; (ii) train
up to four people in curriculum development and evaluation; and (iii) support provision of materials and
equipment for the curriculum development unit; and (iv) support a competition for writers of literature for
children to be adjudicated by separate adult and children's panels.
(b) Develop textbook publishing capacity by providing TA and training in textbook writing, manuscript
preparation, book design, selection of artwork and text paper, and printing and procurement aspects of
textbook preparation. Teachers and teacher educators on secondment or working on a part-time basis will
draft textbooks, teacher guides, workbooks and diagnostic tests (based on textbook and curricular content).
Textbook writers and curriculum managers will be trained to develop diagnostic tests in mathematics and
English. TETP will provide funding for a small materials unit to support TA, training and materials in
various media to complement new curricular initiatives. Both the publishing and materials units in the
Education Development Center (EDC) will be supported with material and equipment. Support will be
given for training of writers of storybooks, and initiatives to promote reading standards.
Sub-Component C: Student Assessment and Public Examinations (US$0.56 million)
The project will:
(a) Support the development of a policy for a new secondary public examination system by: (i) undertaking
a study of the present system, to include proposals for training in modern assessment practices, and to
identify the staff development needs of the Department of Public Examinations (DPE); (ii) providing
professional development to some DPE staff, including initial short-term training for examination paper
developers, and for examination administrators, and a study tour to two or three countries which have
recently opted for an examination system that has tried to incorporate local curriculum content while linked
to a credible international examination agency; (iii) supporting a small-scale conference of technical experts
on secondary school public examinations; (iv) supplying material and equipment for DPE; and (v)
supporting an economic analysis of alternatives to the present examination system.
(b) Develop and conduct national assessments of student learning by: (i) training MOE staff in national
achievement monitoring through criterion-referenced assessments starting in year 2 of the project in
mathematics in grades 4 and 7 and in one other subject area in each of years 3, 4 and 5 of the project; (ii)
administering the mathematics assessment again in year 5 of the project to determine the extent of change in
achievement levels over the duration of the project; (iii) providing TA in test development, item writing,
pre-testing and item analysis; (iv) printing tests and administration manuals; and (v) supporting
dissemination and use of findings through a public forum to discuss results and implications for
curriculum, teaching and materials. The sample-based national assessments will provide information to
teacher educators, MOE officials, and other policy makers on aspects of the mathematics curriculum being
mastered and on other aspects that may need attention. The assessments will be supported by the
Curriculum Section of the EDC and ITE. It will also support development of diagnostic
criterion-referenced tests in two subject areas in grades 3 to 7.
- 23 -



Project Component 2 - US$6.20 million
Increase Equitable Access
The project will expand secondary school access by targeting the needs of atoll students by:
(a) Constructing and upgrading of facilities in one AEC in each of four atolls (Haa Aliffu, Lhaviyani, Alifu
and Thaa). The project will: (i) construct 24 classrooms, 8 science and computer laboratories, 3 libraries, 4
multi-purpose rooms and 10 toilets; (ii) provide fumiture, teaching materials, equipment, and library books
for additional facilities in the four AECs; and (iii) provide books, materials, laboratory equipment, library
equipment and audio-visual facilities for an additional six AECs in the atolls of Shaviyani, Noonu, Raa,
Faafu, Dhaalu and Gaafu Alifu.
(b) Training 30 teachers and head masters of atoll schools. At least seven staff from each of the four AECs
will be trained in B.Ed and/or Dip.Ed programs. Additional training will be provided in computer skills,
information technology and library science.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.30 million
Strengthen Institutional Capacity
This component will develop an EMIS and build management capacity.
The project will.
(a) Upgrade the skills of senior and middle-level management in the MOE through: (i) TA, training, short
overseas study visits for up to 10 designated staff; (ii) in-country TA to run a series of management
workshops; and (iii) training in supervision and reporting;
(b) Develop the EMIS at MOE through: (i) TA to upgrade skills in data collection, analysis, interpretation
and report writing; (ii) overseas training in EMIS for one MOE officer and in-country training for EMIS
users from MOE and atolls; (iii) TA to help develop strategies for equitable allocation of resources on a per
capita basis and monitoring of education spending; and (iv) purchasing of materials/equipment relating to
education management, including planning, finance and supervision. .
(c) Support the PIU by providing office equipment, fumiture, books and supplies; training in procurement,
financial management and disbursements; and TA for construction supervisors for two remote atoll
locations.
(d) Support Third-Party Supervision including evaluation, to provide implementation monitoring of
qualitative inputs and to provide regular timely feedback to help improve project effectiveness.
The project will monitor the proposed increase in STRs in Male' and in the rest of the country as part of
TETP's emphasis on equity of provision. By the end of the project, similar STRs (27:1) should have been
obtained in Male' and in the atolls.
Project Component 4 - US$7.40 million
Train Qualified Nationals for the Labor Force
This component will support the expansion and enhancement of skill-training programs at national
institutions and through overseas programs for professionals from the public and private sectors.
Beneficiaries from both programs will be required to repay part of their overall costs to help create a
long-term tertiary education fund. Cost-recovery charges of: (a) up to 30 percent for in-country programs;
- 24 -



and (b) of 15 and 60 percent for the fellowship program for the public and private sectors respectively, will
be applied. Fellowship beneficiaries for the private sector will be required to pay an annual interest charge
of 5 percent on outstanding loans. The project will continue to support fellowship beneficiaries who began
overseas study programs under SETP and are expected to complete their program after the completion of
SETP (December 31, 1999).
Sub-Component A: In-Country Skill Training (IMA) (US$1.35 million)
The project will:
(a) Expand business-training programs by supporting in-country post-secondary training programs in
business/management for public and private sectors at the IMA as well as support provision of staff
training, furniture and equipment for IMA.
(b) Strengthen and upgrade IMA management and courses to meet accreditation criteria.
(c) Provide TA and training for IMA staff through: (i) in-country tutoring of national staff by
link-institution staff; (ii) participation of national staff in short-term training courses in preparation of
course outlines and assessment; (iii) training in course and materials development; (iv) TA from link
institutions to teach specific parts of programs or address special needs areas in the public and private
sectors and to develop an accreditation system up to international standards.
(d) Provide training for two management and two financial staff, and support twelve IMA staff to degree
and post-graduate degree levels.
Sub-component B. Overseas Fellowships (US$5.76 million)
The PIU will establish a limited guidance and counseling service for prospective fellowship beneficiaries
featuring access to the World Wide Web and catalogs on course offerings in regional and non-regional
tertiary institutions.
The project will support overseas post-secondary professional training to qualified nationals in the public
and private sectors to fill critical skill gaps and to replace expatriate workers. The project will support
overseas fellowships (75 percent for the public sector and 25 percent for the private sector) and in-country
preparatory foundation courses. Most of the fellowships will be offered for first degrees; in the interests of
maximizing the number of fellowships, preference will be given to regional institutions. In the public sector,
during year one, priority will be given to skills which have high development impact (e.g., teaching and
nursing), priority needs of the administrative sector (e.g., attorneys, architects and fishery scientists) and
atoll applicants. The majority of the fellowships will be offered during the first two years of the project in
order that they will be fully funded within the time frame of the project. Fellowship recipients will be
bonded to their sponsoring agencies after the completion of their studies.
Sub-component C: Studies (US$0.26 million)
The project willfinance the following studies:
(a) Evaluation of the fellowship program. The study will examine the impact of the fellowship program on
public and private sector activity, paying particular attention to the development of management and
technical expertise and economic growth. It will also focus on the procedures for selecting candidates,
beneficiaries' perceptions of the value of the fellowships, their experiences and the cost-recovery
mechanism. The study will have relevance for policy making and should indicate strategies for improving
- 25 -



cost-effectiveness and responsiveness to national needs. Selection criteria and procedures may be amended
by the National Scholarship Board (NSB) in light of the findings of the study.
(b) Labor market needs studv. The study, which will be carried out in year one, will analyze the labor
market needs for national and expatriate workers and identify priority areas for the local training programs
and overseas fellowships. The study will suggest the strategies and adjustments needed in the education and
training system to address labor market requirements. It will also assess public and private sectors needs of
different levels of occupations and skills and the type of in-country and overseas training required for the
national workers.
(c) Other studies. To be decided by the Government by February 10, 2000.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
:   Lo-cat   }  Foreign    Total
Project Cost By Component                US $miliion I US $million   US $million
1. Improving education quality                            1.30          3.00         4.30
2. Increasing equitable access                            2.70          2.80         5.50
3. Strengthening institutional capacity                    0.50         0.70          1.20
4. Training qualified nationals for the labor force        0.30         6.20         6.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        4.80        12.70         17.50
Physical Contingencies                                   0.40          0.70          1.10
Price Contingencies                                      0.20          0.90          1.10
Total Project Costs              5.40         14.30        19.70
interest during construction                0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required               5.40        14.30         19.70
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       0.60          2.10          2.70
Works                                                       2.90          0.70          3.60
Services                                                    0.00           1.60         1.60
Training                                                    0.50          9.90         10.40
Recurrent Costs                                             1.40          0.00          1.40
Total Project Costs     5.40          14.30        19.70
Interest during construction                0.00         0.00
Total Financing Required      5.40         14.30         19.70
- 27 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Cost Effectiveness of Project Investments:
Project-related reforms will improve the internal and external efficiency of the educational system. Project
investments, if successfully implemented, in teacher education and skill training will yield direct savings
through replacing expatriate teachers and workers with nationals. Project investments will yield indirect
benefits, including increasing access to secondary education, improving quality of education in the atoll
schools, and improving learning through new curricula and assessment systems.
Enhanced Access to Secondary Education: The project will support the expansion of facilities in four atoll
secondary schools and provide them with furniture, equipment, and learning materials at a total cost of
US$6.2 million. The expansion of these schools will increase the flow of students, reduce the repetition and
dropout rates at the end of the primary cycle and reduce cycle costs by about 11 percent. It will enhance the
opportunity for parents to send their children to atoll schools instead of sending them to schools in Male',
thereby reducing school and boarding expenses. Expanding schools in Male' would be expensive, adds to
housing congestion, and limits the opportunities for girls, as parents are reluctant to send their daughters to
the capital.
Between 1998 and 2005, the expansion of access to secondary education will increase lower-secondary
enrollment by over 50 percent and increase upper-secondary enrollment by almost threefold. The increase
in lower- and upper-secondary student enrollments will also increase the proportion of students in the
respective age cohorts and opportunities for girls in the outer atolls to undertake post-primary studies. The
GER for lower-secondary will increase from 48 to 67 percent and for upper secondary from 4 to 8 percent
during the project period. The GER for girls in lower-secondary will increase from 51 to 73 percent and in
upper-secondary from 2 to 7 percent during the same period.
Savings in Teacher Costs: The rapid expansion of the system, and the limited output of ITE, has escalated
the number of expatriate teachers. In 1998 this number exceeded 900 (i.e., 23 percent of the teaching
force); most were male and were concentrated in lower-secondary schools. Expatriate teachers are paid
more than the nationals in terms of salaries and benefit package. The average annual salary and benefits of
an expatriate teacher is approximately Rf61,000, compared to Rf3O,000 for a national teacher with similar
qualifications. In 1998, expatriate teacher salaries and benefits accounted for more than 38 percent of the
total teacher salary bill. The cost implications of expatriate teachers are significant. Projections show that if
the present ratio of expatriate to national teachers is maintained, expatriate teachers will add Rfl7 million
to the education salary bill (10 percent).
The project will support ITE to increase its output of national teachers and improve the quality of teacher
education at a cost of US$3.6 million. It will achieve an overall STR of 25:1 by 2002 and 27:1 by 2005
and ensure that similar STRs are obtained both in Male' (currently at 22: 1) and in the rest of the country. It
will raise the STR by supporting measures to reduce teacher demand, by enhancing the productivity of the
national teachers through training in multi-subject and multi-grade teaching.
The impact of the project investment on teacher demand and salaries will be substantial. With the planned
increase in ITE output and the increase in STR, the number of expatriate teachers is expected to decline
substantially and their share of the total teaching force should decrease from 23 to 8 percent during the
project period. On the assumption that expatriate teachers will be replaced by nationals, the salary bill will
be reduced by Rf44 million by 2005.
- 28 -



The benefits to the society of replacing expatriate teachers with nationals are not merely financial but also
include social and pedagogical ones. The reduction of the school system's dependency on expatriate
teachers will contribute to an improvement in the teaching process and eliminate pedagogical problems
associated with expatriates. Expatriate teachers tend to have high turnover rates and require long
orientation periods. Non-national teachers also tend to lack an understanding of the local cultural context
and have difficulty in communicating due to accent.
Enhanced in-Country and Overseas Skill Trainine: The sustained economic growth in the last decade has
led to labor shortages in key sectors of the economy. There has been a substantial inflow of foreign labor
into the country especially in the service sectors. Expatriates accounted for 28 percent of the labor force in
1998. The large number of expatriates and the range of professional positions they occupy provide an
indication of the range of skills needed in the economy. The project supports in-country (US$0.5 million)
and overseas (US$6.9 million) training programs based on national needs. In-country training covers
business and managerial occupations at a post secondary level and overseas training covers a wide range of
more advanced tertiary skills for the public and private sector. More than 3,100 expatriates (15 percent of
total expatriates) are employed in various white collar and business categories (e.g., accountant, manager
and secretary). The tight labor market raises the issues of the costs and benefits of skills training for the
Maldivian economy.
The economic benefits of training were computed by deriving the difference in the worker's lifetime
earnings with and without training. With low unemployment, the salary of a secondary graduate in clerical
occupation in the private sector is approximately US$3,120 per annum. The annual difference between this,
and the earnings of an accountant, manager, secretary, and supervisor will be US$6,330, US$12,630,
US$7,500, and US$3,330, respectively. Spread over a twenty-year period, and discounting back at 6
percent per year, the net present value (NPV) of the difference in income streams is US$71,000 for an
accountant, US$141,000 for a manger, US$84,000 for a secretary, and US$37,000 for a supervisor (Table
1). If the total training costs for each of these occupational categories is lower than these income benefits, it
is both privately and socially efficient to provide training in these areas.
Table 1: Net Present Value (NPV) of Benefits for Selected Expatriate Workers
Occupation        Number             Annual        Difference between      NPV
of Expatriate     Remuneration        Trained &      Difference between
Workers        Per Worker US$    Untrained Workers  Trained & Untrained
Workers
Accountant             276               9,450             6,330             70,643
Manager                255              15,750             12,630            140,951
Secretary              145              10,620             7,500             83,700
Supervisor             260               6,450             3,330             37,163
Sources and Assumptions:
I. Number of workers and remuneration obtained from MHREL by mission (Feb. 1999).
2. The difference between the remuneration of worker in certain occupation and secondary graduate in basic clerical
occupation in the private sector (US$3,120).
3. NPV refers to the net present value of the difference (# 2 above) for twenty years discounted at 6% per year (CEM
inflation estimates) using a discounting factor obtained from Gittinger (1973) p. 102.
The benefits generated from the project-supported programs of in-country and overseas training far exceed
the costs of training programs. At present, in-country training of the relatively low level professional and
business occupations is carried out at IMA at an average cost of about US$5,600 per graduate (including
forgone income). The unit cost of IMA training is expected to increase to approximately US$6,400 during
- 29 -



the project period and then fall as the build-up stage of the institution will be completed. This is well below
the expected benefits arising from the provision of this type of skill training as shown in the previous
paragraph. The average cost (including foregone income) for overseas fellowships is US$50,800 (based on
SETP costs for both Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development [OECD] and regional
tertiary institutions); this is well below the expected benefits from training (US$84,000). This situation will
persist until domestic labor demand for training of this nature becomes saturated. These critical variables
include the composition of economic growth, and market access to expatriate labor.
Usually workers do not have accurate information on the labor market opportunities and they accept
training only when the expected benefits are well in excess of the accumulated costs. Costs for training in
these areas must be contained well below the expected benefits. To the extent that considerable private
benefits will accrue to individuals from this sort of skill training, it will be appropriate for the Government
to continue pursuing cost-recovery measures, especially where private rates of return are most pronounced.
Cost Recovery of Project Activities:
SETP introduced cost recovery for post-secondary training. In-country training programs offered at IMA
included cost-recovery of up to 30 percent of training cost; cost recovery charges for overseas fellowships
were set at 15 percent for public sector and 50 percent for private sector beneficiaries. Analysis revealed
that the average private sector graduate earned double to triple the amount of a colleague with the same
qualifications in the public sector. Cost recovery charges for private sector fellowship beneficiaries,
expressed as a percentage of annual incomes, are substantially less than for those of public sector
fellowship beneficiaries, with similar qualifications. Over a twelve year period, for example, based on
current income data, an engineer working in the public sector would pay 14 percent of his monthly income
in cost recovery charges while his counterpart in the private sector would pay 6 percent. Under TETP the
Govemment has agreed to increase cost recovery charges from the private sector fellowship beneficiaries to
60 percent and to apply a 5 percent interest charge over the repayment period. Recovered fellowship costs,
estimated at US$2.9 million will help create a tertiary fund to support future fellowships.
The Project Impact on Sector Budget:
The Sector Budget: The expanding role of the government's involvement in education has. increased public
expenditure in the sector substantially especially between 1990 and 1998 when there was a fourfold
increase (from Rf79 million to Rf342 million). Education's share of the public budget increased from 11 to
17 percent and its ratio to GDP from 5.7 to 8.0 percent. The current level of expenditure on education in
Maldives is higher than in most other Asian countries. The percentage of GDP going to education is double
the average for Asian countries (4 percent) and education as a percentage of the public budget is also above
the Asian average (14 percent). Government expenditure on education is higher than in most small and
island countries. The escalating growth in education spending in the country reflects the: (a) overall
increase in student numbers and the continuing increase in the number of students in government schools;
(b) increased Government responsibility for the recurrent cost of schools that had previously been staffed
and financed by the private sector; (c) increased student numbers in the relatively high unit cost secondary
and post-secondary sub-sectors; and (d) increased number of expatriate teachers required to meet
accelerating teacher demand.
The 1998 budget reflects the government's emphasis on school expansion at the primary and secondary
levels; 85 percent of the capital budget was used for primary and secondary school expansion and 90
percent of recurrent spending was allocated to primary and secondary education. Salaries have increased
substantially in the last five years; their ratio to the budget increased from about 60 to 70 percent between
1993 and 1998. The increase was a result of the escalating number of expatriate teachers recruited for
secondary schools. The second largest category of expenditure after salaries, is transport and
- 30 -



communications (17 percent). High transport costs are inevitable due to the widely dispersed islands of the
Maldives.
Sector Budget Projections: Sector expenditure was projected in a base run (with current policies) and two
scenarios. The first scenario covers the investments planned under the project. The second and much more
ambitious scenario covers the total sector investments needed as outlined in the Government's Education
Master Plan (1996-2005) to achieve universal basic education, expand secondary education, increase
post-secondary training and improve overall quality.
The education budget under the base run is projected to rise from Rf328 million in 1998 to Rf489 million
by 2005 at a growth rate of 6 percent per year. Under the first scenario (i.e., TETP) expenditure will
increase in the early years of project implementation and taper off towards the end; the budget will grow by
6.6 percent per year. However, to meet the ambitious Government expectations (second scenario), the
budget would have to increase substantially to Rf606 million in 2005, (i.e., an unsustainable growth rate of
9 percent per year) and its share to the Government budget would have to increase from 17 to 20 percent.
The Government has recently adopted policies to improve the expenditure efficiency. The project will
contribute to these policies by supporting cost-reduction measures, such as increasing the current low STR
level, training more national teachers and workers to substitute for expatriates, and increasing the share of
fellowships offered for study in the South Asia region.
Prozect's Fiscal Impact: The financial impact of the project cost on the public budget is relatively small.
Table 2 shows that the project will account for about 2 percent of the budget during the first year, increase
to about 3 percent in the second year and decline gradually to just 0.4 percent by the end of the project
period. The project's financial impact on the sector budget will decrease as implementation progresses. The
share of project's cost to the sector budget is 12 percent at project commencement in 2000; it is estimated
to increase to 18 percent in 2001 and gradually decrease thereafter to 3 percent by 2005. The fiscal impact
of the project on Government and sector budgets is unlikely to be substantial as it carries 11% of the
project costs. This is well within the fiscal capability of the Government, and is readily sustainable.
Recurrent expenditure for the project investments during implementation and operation periods, primarily
operation and maintenance are relatively small. The Government has a good record in maintaining its
educational institutions; operational and maintenance expenditure accounted for 5 percent of the recurrent
budget in 1998. The project will be implemented by the Government institutions that successfully
implemented the first two education projects and implementation costs are expected to be well within the
absorptive capacity of the education sector.
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005
Government Budget                 1,964   2,083   2,241   2,345   2,498   2,660    2833    3017
Education Budget                   328    345    364    385    407    431         458     489
Project Costs:
a. Investinent Costs:                            42.3   67.6   51.1   23.5    21.4    11.9
b. Recurrent Costs                                 2.3    3.2    3.4    3.6       3.7      0.8
Total Project Costs                               44.6   70,8   54.5   27.1    25.1    12.7
% Project cost to Government Budget                2.0    3.0    2.2    1.0       0.9      0.4
% Project cost to Education Budget                12.3   18.4   13.4      6 3     5.5      2 6
Source
Sector and Project Economic Analysis Reportand Project COSTABs
- 31 -



Summary of benefits and costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
N/A
- 32 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Implementation Period (Costs in US$ million, including contingencies)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Project Costs (including contingencies)
Investment Costs                                   3.6      5 7      43       2.0       1.7      1.0
Recurrent Costs                                    0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0 3       0.1
Total                                              3.8      59       4.6      2.3      2.0       1.1
Financing Sources (% of Total Costs)
IDA                                               86.8    91 5      89.1     870      90.0      90.9
Government of Maldives                            13.2      8.5'    10.9      13 0     10 0      9 1
- 33 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Procurement
Institutional Arrangements
The MOFT will be the executing agency for the project. Project implementation will be the responsibility of
the MHREL. Within MHREL, the prime responsibility for implementation will rest with the PIU, which
has successfully implemented the previous two IDA education projects. The present project represents a
continuation of a number of activities undertaken under the SETP. PIU will coordinate the entire
procurement process and will seek assistance from the concerned ministries and institutions, such as MOE,
IMA and ITE.
Civil works under the project, estimated to cost US$3.6 million, will be limited to expanding the facilities
of four AECs and ITE. The physical planning and construction section of the MCPW will prepare the
bidding documents for all civil works. Designs for expansion of AECs are available and all the bidding
documents for year one of the project have been reviewed and are in order, thus allowing bids to be invited
before credit effectiveness. The procurement of goods will consist of: (i) furniture (US$800,000); (ii)
educational equipment and consumables (US$1.5 million); and (iii) books and teaching materials
(US$360,000). The PIU will handle procurement of goods directly. Furniture designs used under SETP
will be reviewed by PIU and MOE and will be revised accordingly to be used under TETP. MOE will
provide the PIU with lists of equipment and specifications, and lists of books and materials prepared by
experienced teachers. The consultancy services under the project estimated at US$1.6 million will include
TA for: (i) professional development of teacher educators; (ii) development of textbook publishing
capacity; (iii) development and conduction of national assessments of students' learning; and (iv)
development of EMIS at MOE.
Procurement of works and goods under the project will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits ", published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement of
consultants' services will be in accordance with the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. The procurement methods applicable to various expenditure categories
are summarized in Table A. Procurement thresholds and prior review requirements are outlined in Table B.
Procurement Methods
Civil Works: Given the nature of the works to be financed under the Credit, civil works will be procured
following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA; there will be five NCB
contracts, one for each of the four AECs, and one for ITE. All NCB bid documents will be in English and
prepared using the IDA smaller-works Standard Bidding Document (SBD) as the template.
Goods: Furniture, educational equipment and consumables estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of US$600,000 equivalent will be procured under international/national
shopping procedures with IDA's prior approval. All other furniture and educational equipment will be
procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Library books and teaching materials will be
- 34 -



procured directly from the publishers on the basis of pro-forma invoices; whenever two or more similar
items exist, comparative bids will be sought from a minimum of two publishers or suppliers. Printing and
production of education materials contracts will be awarded on the basis of international/national shopping.
Consulting Services: TA consultancies for firms estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent or more will be
selected in accordance with Section II of the guidelines, Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). All
other TA consultancies for firms will be in accordance with Paragraph 3.7 of the guidelines, Selection
Based on Consultant's Qualifications (SBCQ). Individual consultants for TA may be selected in accordance
with Section V of the guidelines, Selection of Individual Consultants.
Overseas Fellowships: Fellowships will be awarded under the Government's current administrative
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. The Goverment, in the interest of increasing the number of
fellowships available, will undertake to have as many fellowship recipients as possible placed in regional
institutions. All fellowship beneficiaries will be selected and approved by ACTSD before being processed
by the PIU.
In-Country Training and Workshops: Link institutional arrangements will be established for the
professional development of teachers through ITE and for the enhancement of IMA (estimated at
US$450,000). The selection of link institutions will be made upon evaluation of at least three proposals and
the final choice approved by IDA. The training of management and staff of the central and AECs will be
carried out by consultants, hired in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. All training plans will be
agreed with IDA and should be in compliance with Government's procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurerrent Method
ICB         NCB       Other   Services   N.B.F.   Total
1. A. Civil Works                                 -         3.6        -          -               3.6
(2.9)                               (2.9)
2. Goods
(a) Furniture                                 0.6           -       0.2          -              0.8
(0.6)               (0.2)                        (0.8)
(b) Equipment & Consumables                    1.0          -       0.5          -              1.5
(1.0)               (0.5)                        (1.5)
(c) Books & Education Materials                             -       0.4          -              0.4
(0.4)                      (0.4)
3. Consultants' Services                                -               -        1.6              1.6
(1.6)           (1.6)
4. Overseas Fellowships                            -                  9.9          -              9.9
(9.9)                      (9.9)
5. In-Country Training & Workshops                -                   0.5          -              0.5
(0.5)                      (0.5)
6. Salaries                                                  -                     -    0.03     0.03
7. Recurrent Costs                                       -              -          -     1.4      1.4
Total                                            1.61        3.6     11.5        1.6     1.4     19.7
(1.6)      (2.9)   (11.5)      (1.6)       - (17.6
- 35 -



Prior Review Threshold
Civil Works: For all contracts to be awarded under NCB, IDA's prior review will be required in
accordance with Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines.
Goods: IDA's prior review will be required in accordance with Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix I of the
Procurement Guidelines for contracts exceeding US$50,000 or equivalent. All other contracts will be
subjected to post review.
Consultancy Services: Contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000 or equivalent for individuals, and
more than $100,000 or equivalent for firms will be subjected to prior review  by IDA  in accordance with
Paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix 1 of the Consultants Guidelines. IDA will review the Terms of Reference,
cost estimates and shortlist for all other contracts.
Prior review  thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category    ContractValue       Procurement method                     Contracts subjected to Prior Review
(Threshold)
1.   Civil Works            All contracts                                All contracts shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance with
NCB              paragraph 2 & 3 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines.
2.   Goods                                                               All lCB contracts and all contracts estimated to cost equivalent of
Furniture, equipment   <US$30,000   Intemationallnational shoDpina US$50,000 or more shall be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance
and consumables                                                    with paraoraph 2 & 3 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines.
=>US$30,000                 ICB              All other contracts: post review.
Books &Education                                                   All contracts estimated to cost equivalent of $50,000 or more shall
Materials              <US$30,000                                  be prior reviewed by IDA in accordance with paragraph 2 & 3 of
Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines.
Direct contracting
All other contracts: Post review.
='US$30,000
3.   Consultancy                           QCBS, SBCQ, Individual        Terms of Reference, Cost estimates and shortlist shall be prior
Services               <US$30,000   Consultants                     reviewed.
Individuals
(a) Technical
Assistance             <US$30,000  SBCQ
Firms
Prior review in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
=>US$30,000  QCBS                            of the Consultant Guidelines. Prior review of consultant contracts
Individuals                                shall be govemed by the provisions of paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii)
QCBS_________                 below:
QOBS
=>US$30,000                                   i ) With respect to the first contract, and each subsequent contract
Firms                                    for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more, procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 [ other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
2(a)] and 5 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(ii) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
more, the qualifications, experience, Terms of Reference and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA
for prior review and approval.
(iii) All other cases: Post Review.
Fellowships          All contracts    Direct contracting           Annual plans shall be prior reviewed.
In-Country Training/  All contracts    Direct contracting          Annual plans shall be prior reviewed.
Workshops
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Amount in
Expenditure Category          USS m illion   Financing Percentage
1. Works                              2.7                           80%
2. Goods                              2.4   100% foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local expenditures for
other itens procured locally
3. Consultants' Services              1.5                          100%
4. Overseas Fellowships               9.4                          100%
5. In-Country Training & Workshops    0.5                          100%
Unallocated                           1.1
Total Financed by IDA                17.6
Proiect Management Report (PMR) Based Disbursements
TETP will be implemented under the PMR-based disbursement. On a quarterly basis, the PIU will provide
to IDA: (i) a project-progress report; (ii) a project financial statement; (iii) a procurement management
report; and (iv) a commitment monitoring report. Subsequent to the review of these reports, an advance in
the amount of six months' project expenditure requirements will be disbursed to the SA. If the
implementation schedule goes off-track, the amount needed to cover short-term project needs will be
disbursed until agreed remedial actions are put into effect.
Financial Manaaement and ReDortinca
The PIU's management of SETP, including maintenance of project records and reporting, has generally
been very satisfactory. The Government has decided that the same PIU will also manage TETP. The PIU's
capacity to take on the additional record keeping and reporting responsibilities for TETP under the
PMR-based disbursement was appraised, and the following issues were addressed.
Staffing: At the time of appraisal, the PIU was inadequately staffed with only eight members, it is now
fully staffed, with all twelve members. The project director of TETP was also the project director of the
previous two Bank education projects and has an experienced staff in charge of finance and accounts,
procurement, and project administration; the project account has demonstrated competency in PMR-based
disbursement and the Bank's procurement procedures.
Internal Controls: The main internal control is provided by the PIU Director who approves and signs off
on transactions before payments are made. This is quite normal in IDA-financed projects of this nature and
size. This simple internal control system within the PIU is strengthened by the following powerful internal
control checks outside the PIU:
*   The SA is operated by the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA) which makes all SA payments at the
request of the PIU;
- 37 -



*  All fellowship beneficiaries (accounting for approximately 57 percent of project costs) have to be
selected and approved by ACTSD before they can be processed by the PIU;
*   All civil works disbursements have to be pre-approved by the MCPW before they can be processed by
the PIU; and
*  Each payment authorization is copied to both the MOFT, and the Maldives Auditor-General.
Given the above checks and balances, the intemal control system is deemed adequate for TETP.
Budgeting: The PIU would be able to accurately project its budgetary needs with the adoption of quarterly
PMR reporting and disbursements. This will permit the quarterly projection of all project expenditures, the
six-monthly cash forecasts for disbursements, quarterly comparison of budgeted with actual expenditures,
and the explanation of the variances. To help avoid the kind of over-commitment experienced in SETP, the
PIU will inmplement a quarterly commitment monitoring system that requires quarterly comparison of the
total commitments for the life of each contract (e.g., five years for the training of a medical doctor) with the
total funds available for that particular contract until the closing of the project.
Bookkeeping, Accounting and Financial Reporting: The PIU has maintained excellent records, provided
easy access to information and has facilitated timely reporting and auditing. Following Board approval, the
PIU has agreed to engage the services of a consulting firm to install PMR-related software and to train the
PIU staff in its use. The PIU has proposed to introduce PMR. The proposed timetable for the introduction
of PMR requires the selection of the consultant/firm to be completed by May 1, 2000 and the installation of
software and training to be completed by June 1, 2000.
Auditing: In addition to the quarterly PMRs, the PIU will submit an annual audit report which will include
a list of project-financed fixed assets and a list of PMRs issued during the year. This report will be audited
by an independent private-sector audit, to be appointed by April 1, 2000. The appraisal mission reviewed
SETP audit reports and recommended that the TETP audit review should be consistent with the DCA
requirements. The format of the financial and audit report will be agreed by May 1, 2000.
Special account:
A SA will be set up and maintained in US dollars at the MMA, which will make payments requested by the
PIU. Replenishment of the SA will be according to the PMR-based disbursement procedures. For all prior
review contract awards, disbursements against the SA will be subject to granting of no objection by IDA to
the PIU and subsequent submission of signed contracts to IDA.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Project_Schedule                                 ;_Plan_ned __                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10                           23
First Bank mission (identification)             02/03/98                     02/03/98
Appraisal mission departure                     08/01/98                     01/24/99
Negotiations                                    10/04/99                     01/26/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/30/2000                   03/31/2000
Prepared by:
Vincent Greaney (Team Leader), Mohammed Allak, Julie-Anne Graitge, Starlet Vedamuthu
Preparation assistance:
Keith Hinchliffe
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Vimala Abraham                    Disbursement Officer, LOAAS
Albert Aime                       Education Planner, SASED
Mohammed Allak                    Human Resources Economist, SASED
Harsha Aturupane                  Economist, SASED
Thomas Coyle                      Consultant, SASED
Jose Correia Da Silva             Senior Counsel, LEGSA
Jayantha De Mel                   Procurement Specialist, SARPS
Brigitte Duces                    Peer Reviewer, EASHD
John Fitzsimon                    Financial Management Specialist (SARVP)
Julie-Anne Graitge                Team Assistant, SASED
Vincent Greaney                   Team Leader/Principal Education Specialist, SASED
Pamela Hunte                      Anthropologist, SASSD
Ivonna Kratynski                  Financial Management Specialist, LOAAS
Bruno Laporte                     Peer Reviewer, HDNED
Kseniya Lvovsky                   Environmental Economist, SASEN
Uche Mbanefo                      Financial Management Specialist (consultant), SASED
Ralph Rawlinson                   Education Specialist (consultant), SASED
Jamil Salmi                       Peer Reviewer, LCSHE
Starlet Vedamnuthu                Operations Analyst, SASED
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The World Bank. 1998. Scholarship Programs in the Maldives.
C. Other
Asian Development Bank. 1998. Maldives Post-Secondary Rationalization and Development Project (draft
report).
Bray, Mark with H. Charles, C. Farrugia, S. Packer and J. Swartland. 1991. Making Small Practical: The
Organization and Management of Ministries of Education in Small States. The Commonwealth
Secretariat, United Kingdom.
Bray, Mark (editor). 1991. Ministries of Education in Small States: Case Studies of Organisation and
Management. The Commonwealth Secretariat, United Kingdom.
Bray, Mark. 1991. Education Planning in Small Countries. UNESCO, Paris.
Bray, Mark, 1999. Secondary School Examinations in the Republic of Maldives: Current Models and
Future Policies. Hong Kong.
Bray, Mark and Lucy Steward (editors). 1998. Examination Systems in Small States: Comparative
Perspectives on Policies, Models and Operations. The Commonwealth Secretariat, United Kingdom.
Bray, Mark. 1992. Essay Review. Curriculum Development in Small States: Challenges and Strategies in
the South Pacific. Curriculum & Teaching, Volume 7, No. 2, 1992.
International Monetary Fund, Staff Report for 1997 Article IV Consultation, January 12, 1998
Johnston, lan. 1998. Notes and Draft Material for the Report on the Study on Examinations and
Assessment at the Primary/Extended Primary and Secondary Levels. Undertaken for the Ministry of
Planning, Human Resources and the Environment of the Republic of Maldives. The World Bank.
Masters, Bernard L. 1998. Curriculum Policy and Restructuring of the Educational Development Centre.
Male'.
Ministry of Education. 1995. Republic of Maldives Education Master Plan(1996-2005), Goal and
Methodology (Parts I); Education Sector Review (Part II); and Proposed Policy Reviews Programme
Alternatives, and Implementation Schedules (Part III). Male'.
Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment. 1997. Fifth National Development Plan. Male'.
- 40 -



Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment. 1997. Population and Sustainable Human
Development in the Republic of the Maldives. Male'.
Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment. 10/01/1998 Semi-Annual Progress Report,
Second Education and Training Project. Male!.
Rawlinson, Ralph and Hind, Ian. 1997. Post-Secondary Education Study, Volume 1. Rawlinson Consulting
Services Pty Ltd, Male'.
The World Bank. 1998. Maldives Country Economic Memorandum: Policies for Sustaining Economic
Growth. Report No. 18340-Mal, Washington, DC.
The World Bank. 1998. Maldives Third Education and Training Project, Sector and Project Economic
Analysis. Washington, DC.
*Including electronic files
-41 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions     disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                 Purpose                          IBRD      IDA       Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig  Fnm Rev'd
P004337      1995 Maldives                 EDUCATION                           0.00      12.78      0.00      0.16    -0.14      0.00
Total:      0.00     12.78      0.00       016     -0.14     0.00
MALDIVES
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic        Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                 Loan      Equity       Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:               0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
- 42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALDIVES: Third Education and Training Project
Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                South   middle-        .              - 
Maldives       Asia  income        Development dlamond*
1998
Ponulation mid-veartmillions)                           n26       1 3n5       908                   Life expectancy
GNP Der caoita (Atlas method. USSI                     1 171        430      1710
GNP (Atlas methodl US. billions)                        n1 31       5s        . 557
Averaoe annual arowth. 1992-98
PonnleAtinn (1)                                          7           1R        1 1      GN
Labor force (%)                                           2 6       2 3        1 5      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                   capita          \nrollment
Povertv f% of ocDulafion below national ooverttv ine)
OIran noooillhnn (%of totafooauiearionl                   28         27         55
Life exoectancv rt birth (vearst                          67         67        68
Infant mnrialiiv (oer I 000 jive births)                  39         77         3R
t:hild malniilrilnn (% of children under 5)               34         S3                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (f% of ooculation)                              81         75
Ililprnev (% of oonulation aoa 15+1                        4         49         14
Gfossorirrarvenrollment `%0ofSchool-aaeoooulaeonJ        128        100        103              Maldives
Malr                                                   130n       iln       10.               Lower-middle-income group
FemAle                                                1'7          50      1o
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic rattos'
GDP (USS bilbons)                                       0 09       0 34       0 37
Gross domestic nvestmentlODP
Exorrts of onods and services/GflP                      73 7      117 2      115 8                      Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGrP                               10 2
(rnsc nantnnAi savinnslinnp
Current account balance/GDP                               8.7      -10 7       -6 8
Intrrest Davmentsl(GOP                                    1 7        1 3       1 0      Domestic                      Investment
Total debl' DP                                          79 5       46 5       50 9      Savings
TotaI debt serviceiexoorts                                6 5        6 9       3.1
Present value nf derhNG DP                                          27 
Present value of debtlevxorts                                      23 5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
Gl)P                                            7 5      r 5 7       i                            Maldives
GNP nDe cAnita                                   4        3 2        3                      -     Lower-middle-income Wroup
Exoorts of aoods and servies *                             1         6 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
r% of GDP) ' 
Anririlltitre                                            27 4       17 0      1R4
Industrv                                                15 6        18 0      18 8     7
MWnufctl,rinn                                           5 S f      f
Services                                                57 0        65 0      64 7
Private r.nns,nlntinn                                   82 S                                   93   94   95   96   97   98
General nvr,rnmnt r.nnsrmntion                          273        79 4       297 2                     GDI    -       GDP
Imoortsof ooodsandservices                              860       1168       1137
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
favereae annual arovvlhl
Aorimillhirp.                                             2 3        1 2       3 4     30
Industrv                                                 9 3        8 6       116      2
Mnnifantr,-nn                                           5 3        9 R        5 0)
Servirecs                                                 R 9        7 n       83      10        \
Privatp. cnnsmntion                                                                       I   V
GPneral nov-rnmePnt nnnurmntinn                                    23 5        7 0             93   94   95   96   97   98
Gross domestic investment                                                              -1v
Imnnrts nf nonds and sPrvincs                                        7 3       9 9                    Exports    -    Imports
Gross national oroduct                                    7.1       63         7 1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouD averaoe If data are missina the diamond will
he innomrlete
-43 -



Maldives
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                          30.
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..        7.6       -2.2     20
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..    12.2         6.2       0.8
Government finance                                                                        o
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                     [         93    94    95    99    97    98
Current revenue                                    ..       ..       45.3      44.8      no
Current budget balance                                       ..      16.0       14.1                     GDP deflator1
OveraUl surplusideficit                            ..       ..       -2.0       -5.3
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                                 1977     1987        1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                         ..         92        98      400
Marine exports                                             ..        58        58
Garment exports                                             .        15         18     300 -
Manufactures                                              ..         19        21      200
Total imports (cif)                                         ..        349       354
Food                                         ~0
Fuel anid energy                                           ..        39
Capital goods                                                                            0   92   93   94   95   96   97   98
Exoort once index (1995=100)
Imoort once index (1995=1001                       ..                                               Exports        i m ports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                  1977     1987        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                              111        403       425       o
Imports of goods and services                               95        401       410
Resource balance                                            16          1        15
Net income                                                 -16        -27       -28
Netcurrenttransfers                                          7        -11       -12
Current account balance                                      8        -37       -25
Financing items (net)                              ..       -7         15         5
Changes in net reserves                            0        -1         22        20       3 0
Memo:
Reserves includino  old (USS millions)            .                  100       120
Conversion rate (DEC. locaVUSS)                   8.8      9.2       11.8       11.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              6.7     72.8      160.3      187.6
IBRD                                           0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0                    G 16
IDA                                            0.0       7.0       39.0      44.1                                    B4
Total debt service                                0.4      7.3       28.5       13.6
IBRD                                           0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0           F2
IDA                                            0.0       0.1        0.4       0.4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                1.3      10.1       11.8      18.9
Official creditors                             1.6       0.0       -6.7       4.0           E:30
Private creditors                              0.0      -1.2        4.5
Foreign direct investment                      0.0       5.1       10.0      11.0
Portfolio equity                               0.0       0.0        0.0         ..                               D 70
World Bank program                                                                        A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Commitments                                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      B - IDA    D - Otner m tilateral   F - Prvate
Disbursements                                  0.0       1.4        3.8       3.7      C-IMF                          G-Short-term
Principal repayments                           0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1
Net flows                                      0.0       1.4        3.7       3.6
Interest payments                              0.0       0.1        0.3       0.3
Net transfers                                  0.0       1.3        3.4       3.3
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/23/99
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






/                     ~~~~~~~~72                      7.,7
7                                              ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~HAA ALIFU  D,ddOnofw0Mm7
HAA DJfAALLI     Kulhudhuffushi
MALDIVES
THIRD EDUCATION AND
TRAINING PROJECT                                                               undo
6'RA                                                                                                        ON
Project:                                            U--Makaho
j ~ AtolEl EucatfionCenters (AECs) to be Expanded              &:
*   New~ Furniture, Equipment andzConsumables
*   Institute of Teacher Education (fE) Extension
Exitsting:
Nb1aldive& CoIe9eafNHigher Education
A   Norther RegonlSecondlarySho
*   institute o;fTeacher Education In-Service Facility, Edaus'e
5'  ffl     ~AECs Expanded Undler SETP                         A
a    AtollA4minsrtiimve Capitols
@  National Capital
-  Aoll -Administrative goundaries'X?
AUFU    Iado
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV
INDIAN
OCEAN                                                                       -0MEL
DHAALU.
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
2'                                             Veyniandoo'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foodo
ttIWA                                           GAAc U ALIM U
MALDIVES
INDIAN
DKAAW:
SEENIJ                     ONAVflANI
~~~i4j ~~~~~Hiihedho?%_.                                              74



