Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3325 MAL
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 25, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3325 MAL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through\0bDecember 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1 through 5 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(d)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2010 and ending January 1, 2040.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  3
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  4
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year,  (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications for funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and
(ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report;
Page  5
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project Implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and
(ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Treasury
Ameenee Magu
Male
Maldives
Telex:
66032
FINANCE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
By /s/ Hussein Shihab
Page  6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Fakhruddin Ahmed
Country Director, Maldives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   1,980,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   1,750,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
    1,100,000
100% 
(4)
Overseas fellowships
    6,890,000
100%
(5)
In-country training
      370,000
100%
and workshops
(6)
Unallocated
      810,000
 
TOTAL
   12,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of \0bSDR 
850,000, may be made in respect of Categories 3 and 4 on account of payments made for 
Page  7
expenditures before that date but after January 15, 2000.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in 
Maldives Monetary Authority, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
Page  8
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to improve educational 
quality and efficiency, increase equitable access and develop the professional skill 
capacities of the national labor force.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improve education quality through development of:
(1) 
pre-service primary and secondary teacher education, including upgrading teacher 
educators and facilities at the Institute of Teacher Education (ITE), and in-service 
atoll-based teacher training;
(2)
primary school curriculum and textbook publishing capacity; 
(3)
a new secondary public examination policy and a system for national assessments 
of student learning.
Part B:
Increase equitable access to secondary education by targeting the needs 
of students and teachers from the outer atolls, constructing and upgrading facilities 
in the outer atolls, providing additional libraries, science equipment and 
laboratories and training teachers and headmasters of atoll schools.
Part C:
Strengthen institutional capacity through the provision of technical 
assistance and training and by developing an Education Management Information System.
Part D:
Raise professional skill levels of the national labor force through the 
provision of technical assistance and training at national and overseas institutions, 
upgrading and expanding training programs at the Institute of Management and 
Administration, and the carrying out of  studies.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Page  9
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, furniture and 
educational equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to furniture and educational equipment to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with 
a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission 
of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are 
willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process;
(iv)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall 
be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a registration 
process is 
required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be 
given a reasonable opportunity of 
registering, without let or hindrance;
(v)
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline 
for submission of bids;
(vi)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(viii) post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or 
any other bidders;
(ix)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s 
prior concurrence;
(x)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in 
the bidding/contract documents;
(xi)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed 
in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the 
Association. 
Page  10
(xii)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s 
performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it 
was furnished;
(xiii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over 
the estimated cost;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; 
and
(xv)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of 
the bids.
2.
International or National Shopping
Furniture, educational equipment and consumables estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 
equivalent, as well as printing and production of education materials, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures, 
all in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Library books and educational materials, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, and all contracts for civil works, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under direct contracting, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f),  and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
Page  11
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, and thereafter each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain and operate the Project Implementation Unit 
established pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement (Education 
and Training Project) dated March 23, 1989 between the Borrower and the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall implement measures satisfactory to the Association for the 
recovery of such costs of the overseas fellowships and in-country skill training 
Page  12
programs as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain and operate, with responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Association:
(a)
 the Advisory Committee on Training and Skill Development to ensure the 
selection of scholarships on an equitable and competitive basis; and
(b)
a unit within the Ministry of Human Resources, Employment and Labor, 
responsible for the administration of the fellowship program, including the 
application of the cost recovery measures referred to in paragraph 2 above.
4.
The Borrower shall carry out, in accordance with programs, procedures, 
time-tables, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
training and fellowships under the Project; and
(b)
technical assistance and studies under the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
by January 1, 2002 prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
approval, a plan for developing a sustainable fund for tertiary education; and
(b) 
thereafter carry out such plan as the Association shall have approved.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
by September 1, 2000 prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
approval, an implementation plan and time schedule for national assessments, such plan 
and schedule to include details for test development, analysis, reporting, feedback 
and dissemination of findings; and
(b)
thereafter carry such plan and time schedule as the Association shall 
have approved.
7.
The Borrower shall gradually increase the student-teacher ratios in accordance 
with a plan and time schedules satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about July 1, 2002, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 1, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
