Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11511
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1809-PH)
DECEMBER 30, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Pesos per USS)
Year                                        Exchange Rate
1979 (Appraisal Year)                                          P7.4
1990 (Completion Year)                                         P25.5
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
Abbreviations
BOD            Board of Directors
DA             Department of Agriculture
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FIG            Farmer Irrigator Group
IA             Irrigator Association
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDD            Institutional Deevelopment Department
IOSP           Irrigation Operations Support Project
ISF            Irrigation Service Fee
LBP            Land Bank of the Philippines
MOH            Ministry of Health
MRDP           Mindoro Rural Development Project
NIA            National Irrigation Administration
NFA            National Food Authority
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PCR            Project Completion Report
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SPR            Slide Productivity Rate
WOP            Without Project
WP             With Project
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Republic of the Philippines: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 3n1, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Medium-Scale Irrigation Proiect (Loan 1 809-PH)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on the
Philippines--Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1 809-PH)" prepared by the FAO/CP with
Part 11 contributed by the Borrower.
The project to develop seven irrigated rice perimeters and to control malaria on
Palawan and Mindoro, the country's poorest areas, was unsatisfactory overall. Design,
preparation and appraisal were poor, leading to uneconomic irrigation.  Realizing and
sustaining benefits from these sunk costs would require major system redesign and
beneficiary participation, which are unlikely.
The two percent of project costs spent on malaria control led to excellent and
apparently sustainable results.  Also, institutional support for the National Irrigation
Administration produced substantial results.
The Project Completion Report is satisfactory. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1809-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  iii
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Identity .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Background  .I...  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    1
Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Design and Organization ... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Project Implementation .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Bank Performance.. ................  10
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Consulting Services.. .................  12
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .   13
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION .15
Related Bank Loans             ..15
Project Timetable             ..16
Loan Disbursements    ..16
Project Implementation            ..17
Project Costs and Financing           ..18
A. Project Costs   ..18
B. Financing   ..18
Project Results              ..19
A. Direct Benefits   ..19
B. Economic Impact   ..19
C. Financial Impact   ..19
D. Studies   ..20
Status of Covenants            ..20
Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
A.    Staff  Inputs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
B.    Missions  .   .   .  .    .   .  .    .  .   .    .   .  .    .   .  .    .   .   .   .    .  .   .   .  21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
FIGURES
1.  Organization for Project Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
2.  Organization for Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
ATTACHMENTS
1.  Potential Irrigable Area Estimated at SAR and PCR . . . . . . . . . .  25
2. Irrigation Systems.. .....................  26
MAPS: IBRD 14589, 14590



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1809-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Medium Scale
Irrigation Project in the Philippines, for which the International Bank for
Recnstruction and Development (IBRD) Loan 1809-PH in the amount of US$71 million
was  approved  on  March  13,  1980.    The  project  was  restructured  during
implementation and the Loan was reduced to US$33 million (by cancelling US$34
million on April 1, 1985 and US$4 million on January 24, 1989).   The last
disbursement was made and the Loan was closed on April 2, 1991, with full
disbursement of the revised loan amount of US$33 million.
Parts I and III of the PCR are based on a report by an FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme mission which visited the Philippines in February/March
1992. It reflects a review of all relevant project documents, field visits to
selected project areas and discussions with the Borrower's project staff and
associated  Bank staff.   Part  II was prepared by the National  Irrigation
Administration (NIA) on behalf of the Borrower.
The Bank wishes to thank the management and staff of NIA and other
involved Government agencies for their cooperation and assistance in preparing
this PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1809-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to increase rice production in
the three least developed provinces of Mindoro Oriental, Mindoro Occidental and
Palawan in the Philippines, by financing irrigation development to benefit about
37,800 ha which were rainfed or previously had only limited irrigation. This was
to be achieved over a six-year period (1980-1985) by: (a) constructing irrigation
and drainage facilities and roads for seven irrigation systems including six
river diversion dams; (b) providing consulting services to assist the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA) in engineering design and training; (c) improving
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) by NIA of all national irrigation systems through
a project-supported study to evaluate the present position and develop a plan of
action complemented by training of NIA staff in O&M and monitoring; (d)
monitoring and evaluation; and (e) strengthening of the malaria control unit in
Palawan.
2.        The total project cost including physical and price contingencies,
estimated at US$118.5 million, was to be financed by a Bank loan of US$71 million
(60Z of the cost) and Government annual budget allocations of US$97.5 million.
The Bank loan became effective on June 25, 1980,
Implementation Experience
3.        The project as prepared by NIA's Project Development Department and
further processed by Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal missions was overly
optimistic in scope. Inadequate attention was given at the design stage to: (a)
the absence of some basic data, particularly on hydrology; (b) difficulties of
working on relatively remote islands; (c) the characteristics of participating
farmers and their needs; and (d) the experience of problems encountered in
implementing the Bank-funded Mindoro Rural Development Project (Ln. 1202-PH) The
lack of hydrological data led to over-estimation of service areas and caused
difficulties in the operation of four of the six completed systems.
4.        Project implementation was much slower than anticipated at appraisal,
because of the remote location and difficult access to project work sites; overly



- iv -
staff; lengthy procurement procedures; lack of capable contractors and poor
contractor performance; shortages of cement; and severe shortage of local funds,
especially during the early to mid-eighties. By April 1985, that is near the
completion of the original project period, physical achievements were just 17%
and loan disbursements constituted only 25% of the total loan.
5.        Due  to  the  slow  pace  of  implementation  and  the  continuous
unavailability of adequate counterpart funds, the project was restructured and
reduced in scope in April 1985.  This included the deletion of the Bongabong
system, both because of its relatively low economic viability and the fact that
very little work had been done on it by that time, and the redesigning of major
structures  of  three  other  systems.   These  changes  also  resulted  in the
elimination of 3 out of 5 remaining diversion dams. The restructuring scaled
down the appraisal service area by about 40%, from 37,800 ha to 23,000 ha. The
loan was closed on April 2, 1991, after four one-year extensions, with a total
loan disbursement of US$33 million.
6.        Implementation performance improved moderately during the extended
project period (1987-1990).   Problems encountered were:   (a) the continuing
shortage of local funds; (b) poor performance of contractors; (c) unfavorable
weather; (d) sporadic law and order problems; (e) shortage of construction
materials; and (f) the reorganization of NIA.
7.        It has taken about 11 years to complete three out of six irrigation
systems retained after the 1985 project restructuring, and it will probably take
another 3-4 years to complete the remaining three schemes. The irrigation and
drainage works for Dulangan, Malatgao and Caguray irrigation systems were fully
completed by 1990, while only 10-25% of the works for the Mag-Aswang-Tubig,
Mongpong and Batang-Batang systems remained to be completed by the time of PCR
mission in February/March 1992. The present schedule is to complete the works
by 1994, with an estimated additional cost of US$3.6 million. Total cost of the
project, including completion of the remaining works for the above three
irrigation systems, is estimated at about US$58 million. This would be 104Z of
the cost as estimated at the time of the project's restructuring and 49% of the
total project cost estimated at appraisal. In the 1990/91 crop season, a total
service area of about 17,200 ha had been generated but, of this, only about 7,100
ha during the wet season and 4,300 ha during the dry season were actually
irrigated due to water shortages, and incomplete land clearing and land
preparation.
8.        In  contrast  to  the  unsatisfactory  irrigation  components,  which
accounted for over 80% of the total base cost at appraisal, the other components
(malaria eradication in Palawan, training of NIA staff and farmers, 0 & M study,
and monitoring and evaluation) were satisfactorily implemented.
Results
9.        General:   At full development in the year 2000,  the project is
expected to generate a total service area of 19,160 ha, which would be 83% of the
area estimated at project restructuring and 51% of the original appraisal
estimate of 37,800 ha.   Based on the results of monitoring and evaluation
surveys, irrigation intensity increased by 109% from 26% in the without project
situation (WOP) to 135% with the project (WP), or about 30% lower than the



-v-
increase of 140Z estimated at appraisal. The SAR assumed that the whole rainfed
area would be fully irrigated in both seasons with the project, whereas the PCR
estimates that 100% of the area in the wet season and only 36% in the dry season
can be irrigated due to limited water supply. The cropping intensity increased
by 30%, from 116% in WOP to 146% in WP, compared to an increase of 54% estimated
at SAR. Overall yields of irrigated paddy increased by 1 t/ha, from 3.1 t/ha in
WOP to 4.1 t/ha in WP, or about 40Z less than the incremental yields of 1.7 t/ha
estimated at SAR. This reduction is due to under-estimated yields in the WOP
assumed at appraisal. Total annual incremental production is estimated at 54,200
tons, or about two-thirds lower than the appraisal estimate of 166,000 tons.
10.       Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Separate ERR estimates were undertaken
for the overall project and for individual irrigation systems. The re-estimated
ERR for the overall project, calculated in 1991 constant prices over a 40-year
project life, is 6% assuming the import parity price of paddy in calculating the
economic benefits, compared with 18% estimated at appraisal. The lower ERR is
due to the significantly reduced benefitted areas, lower incremental cropping
intensities, lower yields and price of paddy, delayed benefits and project cost
over-run. In the case of the Dulangan system, the benefitted area was reduced
by 70% from 1,400 ha estimated at appraisal to 400 ha at project completion.
11.       Per Capita Incomes.   The annual per capita income has been re-
estimated to increase sixfold from the average of US$37 in the pre-project period
to US$216 in WP for the owner-operator farms and fivefold from the average of
US$29 before the project to US$148 in WP for the leaseholder farms.  The per
capita income of the owner-operator farms, accounting for two-thirds of the total
6,700 farmers, are slightly above the absolute poverty income level, while the
leaseholder farms are about 25% below it.
Sustainability
12.       If the project is to be self-sustaining the water distribution system
will need to be maintained in a satisfactory condition so that tail-end farmers
are able to enjoy conditions comparable with those upstream. In general, system
o&M has been inadequate due to NIA's difficult financial situation (insufficient
income from the collection of irrigation service fees, and a decrease of NIA's
other earnings). As a result, the systems have already deteriorated from the "as
new" condition. However, with the assistance of the Bank under the Irrigation
Operations Support Project (IOSP, Loan 2948-PH), NIA has set out to increase its
ISF recovery and to progressively transfer responsibility for maintenance below
the main canals to the beneficiaries. In the case of the smaller systems and
similarly separable portions of larger systems, a longer term goal is for the
beneficiaries to assume part of the amortization of the capital cost, following
the Communal Irrigation Systems model.   Early indications are positive, but
progress is slow. If NIA succeeds in reversing the slow deterioration of the
distribution system through improved maintenance by the beneficiaries, the
prospects of the project becoming self-sustaining are good. On the other hand
without the cooperation of users, the result would be the familiar rehabilitation
at regular intervals of 5-7 years. This underlines the importance of continuity
of the IOSP program.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.       The project suffered from a number of shortcomings from the design
stage through implementation. The most important were technical and funding
constraints. The technical weaknesses at the design and implementation stages
have substantially reduced the viability of the project. A lack of hydrology
data at project design resulted in considerable reductions in the service areas
and caused difficulties in system operation. The funding constraints severely
affected overall progress and are currently threatening project sustainability
by deferring necessary maintenance.
14.       The implementation experience suggests a number of lessons.  The most
important are:
(a)    In designing a project, the problems of executing construction
works in remote areas should be given due weight.
(b)    To ensure timely and successful project implementation, it is
essential to tailor the construction work to the practical
resources of the Government, with generous allowance for the
time required for the start-up and procurement procedures.
(c)    If there is need for land clearing and land preparation, funds
or credit should be adequately provided in parallel with
irrigation development.
(d)    The  funding  demands  on  Government,  taking  into  account
concurrent  projects,  must  be  kept  within  its  realistic
capacity.
(e)    Collection and generation of reliable hydrological data is
essential for proper planning and implementation of irrigation
projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1809-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Prolect Identity
Project Name  :  Medium Scale Irrigation Project
Loan No.      :  Ln. 1809-PH
RVP Unit      :  East Asia and Pacific
Country       :  Philippines
Sector        :  Agriculture
Subsector     :  Irrigation
2.        Background
2.1       The Bank's agricultural sector strategy for the Philippines in the
early 1970's included supporting the Borrower's objectives of attaining self-
sufficiency in grain production, particularly rice and corn, and strengthening
the sector's supporting institutions.  Self-sufficiency in grain production was
considered important to raise farm incomes and strengthen the balance of payments
position. In support of this strategy, the Bank approved a series of irrigation
development projects from December 1969 to March 1980. This project, approved
in March 1980, was the eleventh in the series. Subsequently, in 1982, the first
Communal Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2173-PH) was approved, followed by
the two most recent loans, the Irrigation Operations Support Project (IOSP, Ln.
2948-PH) in June 1988 and the Second Communal Irrigation Development Project (Ln.
3261-PH) in October 1990.
3.        Prolect Oblectives and Description
3.1       The project was designed to increase rice production by about 166,000
tons per year, and farm incomes of about 12,000 families, of which about 60% were
within the poverty target groups, through utilization of the potential water and
land resources in the three least developed provinces of Mindoro Oriental,
Mindoro Occidental and Palawan (see Map). It was intended to finance a six-year
(1980-1985) development program, incorporating the following elements: (i)



- 2 -
rainfed or previously had only limited irrigation; (ii) construction of three new
divisional and three new field offices, and extension of two existing divisional
and two field offices for the National Irrigation Administration (NIA); (iii)
provision of consulting services to assist NIA in the design of major hydraulic
structures and in training personnel to prepare detailed topographic maps based
on aerial photography; (iv) procurement of vehicles and equipment for project
implementation, operation and maintenance; and (v) strengthening the malaria
control unit of the Ministry of Health in Palawan. The project also provided for
strengthening NIA's existing monitoring system and expanding it to cover the
national irrigation system under the Mindoro Rural Development Project (MRDP)
(Ln. 1102-PH) and the proposed project area; and financed consulting services to
evaluate the present position of the operation and maintenance (O&M) aspects of
all national irrigation systems and to develop a plan of action for their
improvement, complemented by O&M training of NIA staff.
3.2       The total project cost was estimated at US$118.5 million.  Bank Loan
1809-PH, of US$71 million, was intended to finance all the foreign exchange costs
(47%) and about 24% of local costs. The Government was to finance the balance
of the cost, equivalent to US$47.5 million, through annual budget appropriations
to NIA.  NIA bore overall responsibility for project implementation, with the
Ministry of Health (MOH) supporting the non-civil works activities of the malaria
eradication component.   A project manager (initially the director of MRDP)
handled day to day implementation and was responsible to NIA's Assistant
Administrator for Project Development and Implementation.
4.        Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       The project had a clear conceptual foundation which fitted well with
the Government's development goals of increasing food production, improving farm
incomes of the rural poor and supporting the policy of a more geographically
balanced development program. However, due to overly-optimistic programming and
severe shortage of local funds, the project had to be restructured and reduced
in scope in April 1985 (para. 5.1).
4.2       The project was prepared in 1978/79 by NIA's Project Development
Department. Two successive Bank missions pre-appraised and appraised the project
in 1979. In general, the quality of project preparation was poor. The design
focussed principally on the creation of physical irrigation facilities and did
not give sufficient weight to the lack of basic data, particularly on hydrology;
difficulties of working on relatively remote islands; the characteristics of
participating farmers and their needs; and the experience with problems
encountered in the implementation of the earlier Bank-assisted MRDP (Ln. 1202-PH)
in Mindoro Oriental province.
4.3       There were no dry-weather discharge records available for four of the
six river systems; data generated from neighboring rivers or from those on other
islands assumed to be similar, were used for the hydraulic design. In the case
of the Caguray system, though discharge records were available, they were not
used because the flows were thought to be too low. This led to over-estimated
service areas and caused difficulties in system operation.



- 3 -
4.4       The structural design was in general adequate.  However, the design of
the manually operated floodgates was poor at Caguray, and thus they proved very
difficult to operate. It was noted that the omission of diversion dams for three
systems at project restructuring had not unduly affected their performance,
although in one case (Mag-Asawang-Tubig) the irrigated area was substantially
reduced (para. 5.19).
4.5       Throughout the implementation period,  land development lagged far
behind irrigation development; presently about 3,600 ha of idle and brushland
remains to be developed.   Though the needs for land clearance (2,500 ha in
Mindoro) and removal of coconut stumps (3,200 ha in Palawan) were identified at
project preparation and appraisal, neither a land development plan nor financial
support for land development was provided in the project.
4.6       The proposed organizations for construction and O&M of the systems were
good. However, there was a lack of formal linkages between NIA, Department of
Agriculture (DA), Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) and the National Food
Authority (NFA) to provide necessary supportive services, including credit and
storage facilities to farmers. This was evident from difficulties encountered
by farmers, such as ineffective use of irrigation water, lack of access to
institutional credit and drying and storage facilities.
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.1       Critical Variances in Proiect Implementation.   Due to low physical
achievements, the project was restructured and reduced in scope in April 1985.
Total project cost was re-estimated at about P870 million (US$56 million) and
implementation was re-scheduled for completion in 1994.   The Bank Loan was
reduced to US$33 million, by cancelling US$38 million (US$34 million on April 1,
1985 and US$4 million on January 24,  1989).   The project as restructured
included: (i) the completion of three on-going systems (Dulangan, Caguray and
Malatgao) in each of the provinces; (ii) deletion of the Bongabon system
(inclusive of the diversion dam) on grounds of low economic viability; and (iii)
construction of the redesigned three remaining systems (Mag-Asawang-Tubig,
Mongpong and Batang-Batang) by eliminating the corresponding three diversion
dams. Consequently, the re-estimated total irrigable area of the six systems was
reduced by about 40% from 37,800 ha to 22,950 ha as follows: Dulangan 1,400 ha
and Mag-Asawang-Tubig 5,300 ha in Mindoro Oriental; Caguray 3,310 ha and Mongpong
2,100 ha in Mindoro Occidental; Malatgao 6,840 ha and Batang-Batang 4,000 ha in
Palawan. The potential irrigable area of the Mag-Asawang-Tubig included 500 ha
of land of an existing communal irrigation system, 3,700 ha of rainfed land in
Pinagsabangan municipality, and a rainfed area of 1,100 ha in Magatoc
municipality.
5.2       Despite the severe shortage of local funds, over 50% of the canals were
lined, although the SAR proposed that most canals be unlined. This resulted in
expensive development costs (see Part III, Section 5A).
5.3       Because of the relatively poor performance of contractors and in order
to allow NIA to carry out more construction, the percentage of force account
works was increased from 40% of the total civil works' costs to 60%. The actual



-4-
force account in the project works amounted to about 62% of the total civil
works' costs.
5.4         The   five   divisions   proposed   to  be  established   in  five
municipalities, were reduced to four divisions in four municipalities (see
Figures 1 and 2), due to the proximity of sub-projects. In Mindoro Oriental, the
two divisional offices proposed to be located in Roxas municipality were omitted
and all activities and responsibilities were assumed by the divisional office in
the provincial capital of Calapan. The proposed divisional offices in Mindoro
Occidental were actually located in San Jose and Sablayan municipalities, while
in Palawan the divisional offices were located in Narra municipality.
5.5       General.  Overall, project implementation was inadequate, because of
the unsatisfactory performance in carrying out the irrigation components which
formed the core of the project. It took about 11 years to complete three out of
the six irrigation systems retained after the 1985 project restructuring, and it
will probably take another 3-4 years to complete the remaining three irrigation
systems. The present schedule is to complete the remaining works by 1994, with
an additional cost of US$3.6 million (1992-1994). Total irrigable area is now
estimated at 19,160 ha (Attachment 1), or 83% of the revised targets estimated
at project restructuring, and only 51% of the appraisal estimates.
5.6       Project implementation was much slower than anticipated at appraisal,
because of the remote location and difficult access to project work sites; over-
optimistic work schedules; delays in finalizing engineering designs; shortage of
staff; lengthy procurement procedures; lack of capable contractors, poor
contractor performance; shortage of cement; and severe shortage and late release
of local funds, especially during the early to mid-eighties. By the time of the
restructuring of the project in April 1985, physical achievements were only 17%
and disbursements totalled about 25% of the original Loan.
5.7       Implementation performance improved moderately during the extended
project period (1987-1990). Problems encountered were the continuing shortage
of local funds, poor performance of contractors, unfavorable weather, sporadic
law and order problems, shortage of construction materials and changes in the
management of NIA and the reorganization of its staff.
5.8       In contrast to the irrigation works, which together accounted for over
80% of the total project base cost at appraisal, the other components (malaria
eradication in Palawan, organization of Irrigator Associations (IAs), training
of NIA's staff and farmers, O&M study for national irrigation system and project
monitoring and evaluation) were implemented satisfactorily and as planned at
appraisal.
5.9       Irrixation Systems.   Brief descriptions  of the seven irrigation
systems proposed at appraisal and the actual implementation and achievements are
presented below:
5.10      Design.   The SAR provided for about 25 man-months of consultant
services to: (i) review hydrology and diversion dam foundation data and advise



-5-
on their locations; (ii) assist NIA in major hydraulic designs; and (iii) prepare
topographic maps of irrigation areas from aerial photographs.
5.11      These services were performed satisfactorily and within the budget
between 1980 and 1983. Adequate documentation was left. The six diversion dams
were located and designed, but only two were built because of the 1985 project
restructuring. The two dams which were built (Malatgao in Palawan and Caguray
in Mindoro Occidental) have both withstood post-typhoon floods successfully. One
criticism is that the very large sluice-gates on these dams are impracticably
heavy for manual operation, even through gearing, and in consequence are simply
left shut. Thus the investment in these gates and indeed the two diversion dams
themselves are not being exploited and the main canal intake water-level is not
optimized.
5.12      The 1980 consultants'  review of NIA's hydrology study identified
correctly the over-estimate of the dry-weather flow in three schemes (Caguray,
Malatgao and Batang-Batang) which the Bank's 1979 appraisal mission had used.
Following the review, no action appeared to have been taken.
5.13      Construction.  Construction of three systems (Malatgao in Palawan,
Dulangan in Mindoro Oriental and Caguray in Mindoro Occidental) started in 1980-
81 and was completed in 1990, largely in accordance with the appraisal proposal
except for additional canal lining.  Details of construction are provided in
Attachment 2.
5.14      The potential irrigable area of the Dulangan system is just about 30%
of the original proposal of 1,400 ha, due to high ground and tree plantations.
Diversion works of the Dulangan system were already constructed under MRDP up to
the siphon.  Construction of the siphon and distribution was done under this
project. Unfortunately parts of canals in the Baco Bucayao River system which
supply the siphon have been washed out by flooding, and water cannot be diverted
to the Dulangan system until they are repaired.
5.15      The Caguray system was built with a diversion dam serving a single
left bank intake which feeds the main canal. A small check dam additional to the
appraisal proposal was constructed on the Inanggihan River, a tributary of the
Caguray to augment the dry season flow.   Because the sluice-gates were not
opened, this dam was overtopped by floods following the 1991 typhoon and the
right bank training wall breached so that the dam is out of action until it can
be repaired. Modification of the sluice-gate operating gear will be required.
5.16      The  Caguray  dam  flood  sluice-gates  were  increased,  apparently
hurriedly, in August 1981, to almost three times the original area to pass the
same design flood. This has made it virtually impossible to raise these gates
manually and they remained closed during the 1991 flood because of lack of
available operators to move them (about a dozen men are required). Sedimentation
upstream presently prevents operation of the gates, but the diversion dam
structure itself withstood the flood.
5.17      Construction of the other three systems (Batang-Batang in Palawan,
Mag-Asawang-Tubig in Mindoro Oriental and Mongpong in Mindoro Occidental) started



- 6 -
in 1984-86 and was 75Z-90Z completed by February 1992. Completion is scheduled
for 1994.
5.18      The  Batang-Batang  system  was  modified  by  the  1985  project
restructuring. The dam was eliminated and replaced by a simple intake with two
metering gates and two sluice-gates. The approach channel has to be remodelled
in most years by bulldozer after the floods, but otherwise the intake-only
arrangement fulfills its function adequately. The main canal serves 10 lateral
canals, of which 6, started in 1984, were constructed to bring the system to 75%
completion by February 1992.
5.19      The Mag-Asawang-Tubig system was the most seriously affected by the
1985 project restructuring. The service area was reduced from over 14,600 ha to
5,300 ha as a result of elimination of the diversion dam and long canals.
Presently the system diverts water from the Macatoc River to irrigate an area of
about 1,600 ha north of the Municipality of Victoria.   A separate system
irrigates a further 3,700 ha on both right and left banks of the
Mapalo/Pinagsabagan River. Water is diverted from the Mag-Asawang-Tubig River
by an intake and short canal into the Mapalo/Pinagsabagan system, where a second
check-dam serves two canals. This requires several details for completion but
diversion is possible and overall this system, which started in 1986, is
presently 90% completed.
5.20      The Mongpong system was about 86% completed in March 1992.  The 1985
project restructuring replaced the diversion dam by three simple intakes on the
main river and one check-dam on a tributary.
5.21      Training.  The project was to provide: (i) local training to NIA's
staff and farmers; and (ii) thirty study tours and short training scholarships
of three to five weeks in neighboring countries and six post-graduate
scholarships for NIA's staff working on design, construction, O&M, monitoring and
evaluation and agricultural aspects of the irrigation project.
5.22      The training effort was in general satisfactory.  The implementation
of this component went beyond the scope anticipated at appraisal. Local training
was provided to NIA's staff from 1983 to 1988 in 28 seminars and workshops on a
wide range of subjects held in Manila and in each of the provinces concerned.
The emphasis was on management and operational procedures, acknowledged as the
most important of NIA's functions requiring reinforcing. Some 800 participants
attended these meetings.
5.23      The overseas study tours and training program involved 12 engineers
in technical and management training for a total of 14 man-months ranging from
one- to two-months. Three persons went to India, one to Italy and the remainder
to Bank's courses in Washington. The proposed six post-graduate scholarships
were eliminated due to the country's tight financial situation.
5.24      Approximately 1,440 members of lAs' Boards of Directors and farmers
attended one to two weeks training on water-system management, financial
management systems and basic leadership. The importance of O&M was stressed, but
its effect on project system operation is still not evident.



-7-
5.25      Input-Output  Monitoring.    The  input-output  monitoring  program
previously established for service areas developed under other projects, with a
view to monitoring the flow and build-up of farm inputs and the size of benefit
flows to recipients, was to be extended to the systems of MRDP as well as to the
seven irrigation systems under the project.
5.26      A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M & E) was established and training
of staff of the unit was completed in 1981 by NIA's Institutional Development
Department (IDD). By mid-1982, a five-year agricultural development plan for the
MRDP area was prepared and endorsed for implementation by the MRDP's Agricultural
Development Council. One input-output monitoring survey for the 1982 dry season
was also conducted.
5.27      However, under the project, NIA found that impact monitoring and
evaluation, rather than the input-output monitoring proposed at appraisal, would
prove more useful and it was accordingly adopted for implementation. General
household surveys were conducted in mid-1981 in all the proposed sub-project
areas, followed by benchmark surveys which were conducted for the 1981 wet season
and the 1982 dry season. Seasonal farm management surveys, using about 20-30
farmer samples in each sub-project area, were conducted for wet and dry seasons,
covering the periods 1982-1991 for sub-projects in Mindoro Occidental, 1983-1991
for sub-projects in Palawan and 1984-1991 for sub-projects in Mindoro Oriental.
Due to staff re-organization during 1986-1987, most of the monitoring staff were
laid off and further works were carried out by the Regional Irrigation Office
staff under the newly introduced Irrigation Management Information System.
Despite the shortage of staff and funds, the performance of the M&E unit was
generally satisfactory and adequate data were collected for the project's impact
evaluation.
5.28      O&M Study.  The project financed 45 man-months of consulting services
for a study to evaluate the present position and develop a plan of action for the
improvement of O&M in all national irrigation systems.
5.29      The study, completed by a USA/ Philippine consultant consortium in
1985, actually represented the third phase, and built on the analytical work
undertaken by NIA in the course of the two earlier phases to produce a costed
proposal for a medium-term nine-year Irrigation O&M Improvement Program for NIA.
The Bank used this study as the basis for formulating and appraising the on-going
Irrigation Operations Support Project (Ln. 2948-PH).  The study was completed
within the time limit and the budget. The performance of the consultants was
good and their report provided a useful framework for transforming NIA into an
irrigation management, rather than a construction, agency.
5.30      Strengthening of the Malaria Control Unit in Palawan.   The project
included a provision of US$600,000 (including physical and price contingencies)
to strengthen the Malaria Control Unit in Palawan over five years. To achieve
this, the unit was to concentrate its operations in the municipalities of Narra
and Aborlan, where the two project irrigation systems are located.
5.31      The program started promptly in 1980 and proceeded well throughout the
implementation period (1980-1987). Staff were recruited on time, and materials,



-8-
equipment, vehicles and buildings were purchased or constructed as anticipated.
Major activities undertaken were:   residual spraying of houses, fortnightly
fogging (ULV Malathion) of villages and campsites, biological measures including
construction of bio-ponds, seeding of streams with larvivorous fish and clearing
of stream banks, intensified surveillance operations including taking of blood
smears, preventive treatment, radical treatment and follow-up of positive cases,
malariometric surveys and investigation of positive cases, and entomological
control and evaluation. As a result of the intensive malaria control program,
positive malaria cases dropped from 1,025 cases (or a slide positivity rate (SPR)
of 35.8%) in 1980 to 10 imported cases (or SPR - 0.6Z) and zero indigenous cases
in 1987. Regular activities have been carried out by MOH since 1988.
5.32      Farmer Irrigator Groups  (FIGs)  and Irrigator Associations  (IAs).
Although not originally included under the project, during its implementation
a total of 6,700 farmers were organized into 414 FIGs covering a total irrigable
area of about 19,160 ha, about 50 ha per irrigation unit.   These FIGs were
affiliated with 37 Irrigator Associations (IAs) with each IA covering about 400-
500 ha. Thirty-three IAs have been formally registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  However, a few farmers have not become members of IAs,
although they do participate in O&M organized by FIGs and lAs and paid for the
irrigation service fee (ISF) at the rate of 150 kg paddy per ha for the dry
season and 100 kg per ha for the wet season, to cover NIA's O&M costs.  As
already noted (para. 5.24), training was provided to about 1,440 members of the
Boards of Directors (BOD) of IAs and farmers.   However, because of frequent
changes in members of IAs' BODs, many newly elected members have never received
the above training. Generally, therefore, the performance of FIGs and IAs needs
to be improved through further follow-up training of new members of BODs and
farmers in water management in order to ensure effective use of irrigation water
at the field level. Other difficulties encountered by irrigators were lack of
credit and storage facilities.
5.33      Irrigation Service Fee (ISF).  Except for the Dulangan, Mongpong and
Batang-Batang systems, which suffered flood damage and/or water shortage, the
average annual collection rate of ISF for the three remaining systems has been
good at 75-90%, compared with the average of 50% for all national irrigation
systems. ISF has been collected mostly in kind in the form of paddy, which poses
storage and marketing problems for NIA.   There is an understanding that the
National Food Authority (NFA) would procure NIA's in-kind ISF collections, but
this does not always happen because NFA is often very short of funds.
5.34      Total cost of the project, including the costs for completion of the
remaining works for the above three irrigation systems, is estimated at about
US$58 million. This would be 104% of the cost as estimated after the project's
restructuring and 49% of the total project cost estimated at appraisal.
Proiect Results
5.35      Impact.  At full development in the year 2000, the project is expected
to generate a total service area of 19,160 ha, which would be 83Z of the area
estimated at project restructuring and 51% of the original appraisal estimate of
37,800 ha. The reasons for the service area being substantially lower than that



- 9 -
estimated at appraisal are the elimination of major irrigation facilities and
optimistic estimates made at appraisal. Based on the results of the monitoring
and evaluation surveys, irrigation intensity increased by 109%, from 26% in the
Without Project Situation (WOP) to 135% in the With Project Situation (WP), or
about 30% lower than the increase of 140% estimated at SAR. The SAR assumed that
all the rainfed area was to be fully irrigated in both seasons in WP, whereas the
PCR estimate is that 100% of the area in the wet season and only 35% in the dry
season can be irrigated due to limited water supply.  The cropping intensity
increased by 30%, from 116% in WOP to 146% in WP, compared to an increase of 50%
estimated at SAR. Overall yields of irrigated paddy increased by 1 t/ha from 3.1
t/ha in WOP to 4.1 t/ha in WP, or about 40% lower than the incremental yields of
1.7 t/ha estimated at SAR. This reduction is due to the under-estimated yields
in the WOP assumed at appraisal.   Total annual incremental production is
estimated at 54,200 tons, or about two-thirds lower than the appraisal estimate
of 166,000 tons.
5.36      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  Separate ERR estimates were calculated
for the overall project and for the individual irrigation systems.   The re-
estimated ERR for the overall project, calculated in 1991 constant values over
a 40-year project life, is 6% assuming import parity prices of paddy in
calculating the economic benefit, compared with 18% estimated at appraisal. The
latter was, however, based on export parity prices which are no longer relevant
as the Philippines has become essentially a net importer of rice and will likely
remain in that situation in future years.   For comparative purposes, using
current export parity price projections, the re-estimated ERR for the overall
project would be only 2.3%; if the export parity price of paddy projected in the
SAR (for 1990, expressed in 1991 constant value) were used, the re-estimated ERR
would be about 10%. The lower re-estimated ERRs are due to the significantly
reduced benefitted areas, lower incremental cropping intensities and yields and
price of paddy, delayed benefits and project cost over-run. In the case of the
Dulangan system, the benefitted area was reduced by 70% from 1,400 ha estimated
at appraisal to 400 ha at project completion.
5.37      Farm Incomes.  Farm incomes resulting from the impact of irrigation
development in the three provinces have been re-estimated. Two farm sizes of 2.5
ha in Mindoro and 5 ha in Palawan, accounting for two-thirds of owner-operators
and  one-third  of  leaseholders  have  been  analyzed.    Because  of  the  old
resettlement area, there are a few amortizing farmers and they have been excluded
from the analysis. Incomes from other off-farm activities were taken at about
one-third of the farm incomes.
5.38      At full development,  the annual per capita income has been re-
estimated to increase sixfold from the average of US$37 in the pre-project period
to US$216 in WP for the owner-operator farms, and fivefold from the average of
US$29 before the project to US$148 in WP for the leaseholder farms. The low farm
incomes are due to the reasons given in para. 5.35 and the high prices of
fertilizers resulting from removal of subsidies.   The incomes of the owner-
operator farms, accounting for two-thirds of the total 6,700 farmers, are
slightly above the absolute poverty income level of US$200, while the leaseholder
farms are about 25% below it.



- 10 -
6.        Project Sustainability
6.1       The Bank recognized the importance of regular maintenance of the
distribution systems to the project's sustainability by providing for a
consultant study to develop an action plan for the improvement of the O&M of all
national irrigation systems by NIA. The results of this study became the basis
of the IOSP (see para. 5.29). If the project is to be self-sustaining, the water
distribution system will need to be maintained in the "as new" condition so that
tail-end farmers can enjoy conditions comparable with those upstream and all may
be able to exploit the facility to the optimum. System O&M in the Philippines
has been inadequate due to NIA's difficult financial situation (insufficient
income from the collection of ISF and decrease of NIA's other earnings). As a
result, the systems have already deteriorated from the "as new" condition.
However, with the support of the Bank through the IOSP, NIA has set out to
increase its ISF recovery and to progressively transfer responsibility for
maintenance below the main canals to the beneficiaries.   In the case of the
smaller systems and similarly separable portions of larger systems, a longer term
goal is for the beneficiaries to assume part of the amortization of the capital
cost following the Communal Irrigation Systems model.  Early indications are
positive but progress is slow.
6.2       If NIA succeeds in reversing the present slow deterioration of the
distribution system through improved maintenance by the beneficiaries, the
prospects of the project being self-sustaining are good.  On the other hand,
without the cooperation of users, the result would be the familiar and costly one
of rehabilitation at regular intervals of 5-7 years.   This underlines the
importance of continuity of the IOSP program.
7.        Bank Performance
7.1       The Bank's performance was weak  in project  design,  but  it was
generally satisfactory during implementation.   The SAR proposed an overly
optimistic physical construction program and failed to identify the major risks
of the non-attainment of the proposed irrigated areas and cropping intensities,
given that no data on river flows existed for four of the six rivers concerned
(para. 4.3).   This lapse was highlighted in the Consultant's review of the
project hydrology (para. 5.12), published within six months of the start-up of
the project, but there is no record of any action having been taken.  On the
agricultural development aspects, though the needs for land development were
identified, financial support for this purpose was not included under the
project, which resulted in a slow rate of land development during the project
period (para. 4.5).
7.2       The Bank's performance was stronger during project implementation.
Of the 13 supervision missions over 11 years, 12 missions had at least one
irrigation engineer as a member.  However, the frequency of the missions was
inadequate considering the problematic nature of this project and the fact that
two or three projects were supervised per visit. Staff continuity was maintained
and the quality of advice was sound. When the financial constraints became very
critical, the Bank was flexible and helpful in re-structuring the scope of the



- 11 -
project and re-scheduling its implementation period, as well as in increasing the
share of the force account works.
7.3       The most important lessons of experience for the Bank are:
(a) In designing a project, the problems of executing construction
works in remote areas should be given due weight.
(b) To ensure timely and successful project completion, it is
essential to tailor the construction work to the practical
resources of the Government, with generous allowance for the time
required for the start-up and procurement procedures.
(c) If there is need for land clearing and land development, funds
or credit should be adequately provided in parallel with
irrigation development.
(d) The counterpart funding requirements, taking into account
concurrent projects, must be kept within Government's realistic
capacity.
(e) Collection and generation of reliable hydrological data is
essential for proper planning and implementation of irrigation
projects.
8.        Borrower Performance
8.1       The  Borrower's  chief  weakness  was  the  inability  to  fund  the
counterpart contributions when required. This was perhaps due to overoptimism
at appraisal, but mainly to the country's economic recession in the early and
mid-eighties, accompanied by the change of the Government, which could not
reasonably have been foreseen in 1979. Another demonstrated weakness was the
lack of a good data base, particularly river discharges and rainfall records, for
project design. It is regrettable to note that the river-flow readings, which
were started on the project rivers in 1980, have been allowed to lapse since 1986
and that there was a general lack of rainfall data within the catchments. Such
data are not expensive to collect and are a very worthwhile investment.
8.2       The Borrower substantially complied with the loan covenants.  There
were delays in respect of the submission of Audit Reports for some years.
However, this was attended to and all reports have been submitted.
8.3       In other aspects, the Borrower demonstrated considerable strength.
NIA, though with delay, is now adequately staffed with qualified and competent
professionals. Project management is generally satisfactory and good records are
being kept.
8.4       The main lessons to be learned from the Borrower's performance are:
(a) that government's ability to provide counterpart funding should be
realistically assessed at appraisal; (b) collection and generation of reliable
hydrological data is essential for proper planning and implementation of



- 12 -
irrigation projects; and (c) the problem of correcting watershed deterioration
should be addressed before embarking on irrigation projects.
9.        Prolect Relationship
9.1       The relationship between the Bank and Borrower was  satisfactory
throughout the project period. This was particularly important in successfully
maneuvering the project through times of severe budget constraints, in reducing
the scope of the project and in extending the implementation period by four years
in order to achieve important targets. In a wider sphere, cooperation between
NIA and other Government agencies (DA, Land Bank and NFA) could have been better
in relation to the provision of agricultural support services.
10.       Consulting Services and Procurement
10.1      The performance of the Design and O&M Consultants, already described
in paras. 5.11-5.29, was satisfactory. Procurement was in general satisfactory
as a result of NIA's familiarity with Bank procedures. However, some local civil
engineering contracts were late or had to be abandoned completely due to
financially unsound contractors being permitted under procurement procedures. A
future improvement would be to raise the award ceilings for provincial offices
and to adjust these for inflation.
11.       Proiect Documentation and Data
11.1      The SAR provided a satisfactory implementation framework for the Bank
and Borrower. However, because of the lack of detailed engineering design for
the proposed irrigation systems, coupled with unforeseen severe budget
constraints, the usefulness of the SAR as a yardstick to measure the achievement
of physical and financial targets was reduced.
11.2      The provisions of the loan agreement were generally observed.  The
project maintained proper accounting and generated a good data base for the
purposes of impact evaluation.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1       The  National  Irrigation  Administration  (NIA),  the  statutory
corporation that implemented the irrigation component (accounting for over 80%
of the total base cost at appraisal), agrees in general with the findings and
assessment of the PCR mission.
1.2       Implementing a project stretched/scattered over two islands comprising
three provinces is considerably more difficult than implementing a project which
is contiguous or at least located in just one province. In fact, a project which
is scattered over just one province could equally prove to be difficult if the
geography  is  similar  to that  of Mindoro  or Palawan.    But,  surely,  the
problems/risks inherent to this project situation must have been apparent to the
planners.   The ideal approach in implementing such a project would be to
establish fully equipped construction offices in each sub-project area. However,
due to funding constraints, this approach could not be effected as it would only
serve to stretch the limited resources too thinly, leading to overruns in
administrative costs.
1.3       NIA is now beginning to see the usual 5-year project implementation
period as an arbitrary figure not based on careful and conscientious planning.
This is especially so if we consider past experiences and the fact that detailed
engineering/design is undertaken within the first two years of the 5-year
implementation period. It is now, therefore, prudent to recommend that the Bank
considers extending project loans in two tranches. The first tranche would cover
the detailed engineering/design and the procurement of consultants, equipment and
major civil works packages. The second tranche would cover actual construction.
1.4       Ideally, if there is a need for land development, funds or credit
should be adequately provided in parallel with irrigation development. The issue
that must be properly addressed in this regard, however, is whether to include
the cost of land development in the determination of the total project cost,
since to include it may make the project less economically viable.
1.5       Since experience had already established the inability of the Borrower
to provide adequate counterpart funding on a timely basis during project
implementation, the Bank should consider providing within the Loan Agreement of
future projects a Working Fund facility and a higher financing rate.
1.6       It is rather difficult now to establish what had happened to the
Consultant's hydrologic study which confirmed the inadequacy of river flow on
some of the rivers at the early stage of project implementation. We can only
assume that project implementation was all geared up by then and that nobody was
ever really bothered by the results of the study. Nevertheless, the issue is
said to properly addressed under the World Bank-assisted CIDP II.
1.7       The Bank supervision missions were, in general, helpful and useful,
especially during project reformulation. However, we agree with the PCR Mission
that these supervision missions should have been more frequent when the project



- 14 -
started becoming problematic; and the supervision missions' workload should not
have been overcrowded with two or more projects within a very short duration.
1.8       Not  even  the presence  of  a dependable  hydrologic  data  (actual
measurement of river flows) could ensure a good calculation of the service area
if we take into account the rate of deterioration Philippine watersheds are
undergoing. Perhaps, we should try to address first the problem of watershed
deterioration before embarking on irrigation projects.
1.9       Dependable availability of irrigation water should ensure increase in
production.   However, water is but one of the basic inputs for increased
productivity. Proper application of fertilizers and pesticides and the use of
high yield varieties play a major role in increasing production. Credit could
also be considered a major input; for without credit, most the farmer-
beneficiaries could hardly afford to finance procurement and application of
appropriate  amount  of  fertilizers  and  pesticides.    Given  their  current
capacities, farmers would be inclined to use the traditional varieties, which are
cheaper to grow but hardly approach production performance of high yielding
varieties. The PCR Mission failed to provide an evaluation in this respect to
explain the shortfall in the yields per hectare.



- 15 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.         Project                  Year of Approval         Status
637-PH     Upper Pampanga River                1969         PPAR t 3063  6/1/80
984-PH     Aurora - Penaranda                  1974         IER # 8494  3/1/90
472-PH
1080-PH     Tarlac Irrigation
System Improvement                 1974         PPAR # 5969 12/1/85
1227-PH     Chico River Irrigation              1976         PPAR # 7923  6/1/89
1367-PH     Jalaur Irrigation                   1977         PPAR # 5969 12/1/85
1154-PH     Magat River - Stage I               1976         PPAR # 7923  6/1/89
1567-PH     Magat River - Stage II              1978         PPAR # 7923  6/1/89
1639-PH     Magat River - Stage III
Irrigation                         1978         PPAR # 7923  6/1/89
1414-PH     National Irrigation System
Improvement I                      1977         PPAR # 8390  2/1/90
1526-PH     National Irrigation System
Improvement II                     1978         PPAR $ 7820  6/1/89
2173-PH     Communal Irrigation Dev.            1982         PCR under preparation
2948-PH     Irrigation Operation
Support                            1988         Ongoing
3261-PH     Second Communal Irrigation
Development                        1990         Ongoing
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
Name:                         Irrigation Operations Support
Loan Number:                  2948-PH
Loan Amount:                  US$23.5 million (amended 8/18/89)
Date of Board Approval:       June 2, 1988
Comments: To strengthen the institutional and technical capacity of the
National Irrigation Administration and Irrigator Associations to enable them
to maintain the efficiency of existing National Irrigation Systems (NIS) and
to improve the performance of NIS through minor rehabilitation and through
increases in the annual funding to support improved levels of O&M services.



- 16 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Planned        Date Actual
Preparation                                   1978-1979
Pre-Appraisal                               May/June 1979
Appraisal                                  Sept./Oct. 1979
Negotiations                                February 1980
Board Approval                             March 13, 1980
Loan Signature                             March 28, 1980
Loan Effectiveness      June 25, 1980       June 25, 1980
Completion           December 31, 1985  December 31, 1990
Closing               December 31, 1986    April 2, 1991
3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (US$ KILLION)
FY81  5FY82   11Y83   FY84 1   FY85  2 FY86       2. FY87278 3.FY8821 Fi:0    Y  33. py0
Acua  as Z of
Appraisal           0.2   8.0   21.0   39.0   55.0  66.0  71.0
Estimate
Revised tO4/85)                                  19.0  24.0  31.0  35.0  37.0
Revised (01/89)                                                                      31.0    33.0
Actual                     5.2   11.1   15.9   18.3  20.4  21.5  23.5  27.8   30.2    33.0
Actual as X of
Appraisal
Estimates          0      65    53       41      33    31    30       33     39     43      47
Actual as x of
Revised
Estimates          -      -      -       -       96    85    69       67     75    97       100
Date of Final
Disbursement                                       April 2, 1991
Comments: Total amount cancelled was US$38 million (US$34 million, effective April 1, 1985
and US$4 million, effective January 24, 1989). From FY 1985 and thereafter, actual loan
disbursements have been compared with the revised estimates.



- 17 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
KEY INDICATORS AS OF DECEMBER 1991
Irrigation Systems             Appraisat       Revised V         Actual   -  Actual as   of
l               I                lI   -          I Revised Targets
Number of systems                           7               6                6             100
Service area (ha)                      37,800          22,950           19,160              83
Dan/weir (No.)                              6                2               2              100
Intake structures (No.)                                    13                9              69
Main canal (km)                           145             116               98              84
Lateral canal (km)                        415             177              140              79
Main structures (No.)                     417             310              288              93
Lateral structures (No.)                1,437             487              388              80
Lining (km)                                                58               55              95
R 0 A D S:
-Access (km)                              70              43               30              70
-Service (km)                            710             273              192              70
-Structures (No.)                                        109               98              90
D R A I N A G E:                          202
-Canals (km)                                              60               47              78
-Structures (No.)                        129             168              130              77
-Flood dike (km)                                          11.5             10.1            88
FARM LEVEL FACILITIES:
-Turnouts (No.)                                          568              493              87
-Main ditches (km)                       361             325              236              73
-Supplementary ditches (km)            1,967             379              379             100
-Drains (km)                             970              12.6             12.6           100
-Structures (No.)                                        559              473              85
F I E L D 0 F F I C E S:
-New                                       6               4                4             100
-Rehabilitated                             4               4                4             100
The project was restructured in April 1985.
Estimates at full development in Year 2000.



- 18 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
00;S  AtRfl:K    01 0            P    Cy000    S0C4 R.0004-i0-0004000000--f00
P million |0US$ 0Million R0 P0Mi01ion- 0I00|0 Utis9:Million.0;
Irrigation Systems            846.80       114.60        884.86 2X        56.53
Input-output monitoring        11.20         1.50          1.08            0.07
O&M study & training            13.30        1.80         15.17            0.96
Strength. of the Malaria        4.20        0.60           2.19            0.14
Control Unit in Palawan
TOTAL                         875.50       118.50        903.30           57.70 /
./  Including physical and price contingencies.
V   Higher development costs in Pesos reflected the increased costs of construction
material and labor; moreover, over 50% of canals were concrete-lined. Including P100
million for completion of remaining works (FY 1992-1994).
a   No local consultants were hired.
Y Lower project costs in US dollars reflected the devaluation of the Peso.
B. FINANCING (USS MILLION)
S AR                        PCRV
(US$ Million)  Percentage  (US$ Million)   Percentage
IBRD        71.0            60          33.0            57
GOP         47.5           40           24.7            43
TOTAL       118.5          100           57.7           100



- 19 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
Appraisal  I Actual/PCR
Estimate     Estimate
Incremental paddy production (tons/year)                     166,000       54,200
Beneficiaries (No.)                                           12,000        6,700
Annual incremental farm employment (man-day million)               3            1.5
Comments: Total service areas were reduced by about 50%, while numbers of farm
families were reduced by about 40%.
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal I ActualPCR
Estimate      Estimate
ERR (Percentage)                                       18               6
Assumptions
Project Life (years)                                  40               40
Full development (years)                            1990             2000
Standard Conversion Factor                             0.82             0.83
Farm Labor Conversion Factor                            0.52            0.60
Benefitted Area (ha)                              37,000           19,160
Incremental Cropping Intensity (%)                    50               30
Incremental Yield of Irrigated Paddy (tons/ha)   1.5-2.6                1.0



- 20 -
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
I;t tAppraisal Estimate :-          AdtOmC Estmat l1
Per CapitalIncome 1/ (US$)           PPW                      P       P
MINDORO ORIENTAL (2.5 ha)
Owner-operator                       60             295              38             275
Amortizing-owner                     35             270
Leaseholder                          40             195              14             173
MINDORO OCCIDENTAL (2.5 ha)
Owner-operator                       60             295              60             209
Amortizing-owner                     35             270
Leaseholder                          40             195              41             142
PALAWAN (5 ha)
Owner-operator                       80             510              13             164
Amortizing-owner                     40             295
Leaseholder                          35             475              31             130
V   Approximately 6 persons per family.
f  In 1980 constant prices and at the average official exchange rate of US$1 - P7.4.
1   In 1991 constant prices and at US$1 - P27.5.
PP - Pre-Project Situation.
WP - With the Project Situation.
D. STUDIES
*    S;STUDIES                                                TARPOSE. AS -e   AT APRI  S U  T   O  SI
Organization      To evaluate the present position of    Completed  NIA and the Bank
and Maintenance  Organization and Maintenance and                      used this study as a
(O&M)             develop a plan of action for the                     basis for
improvement of O&M of all national                   formulating and
irrigation systems                                  appraising the
ongoing Irrigation
Operations Support
Proj. (Ln. 2948-PH).



- 21 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Agreoment .     pr                                   Act ion 
Covenant:-  Pragraph |   -
3.01 (b)      3.28     Malaria eradication   Agreement between        12/80      Done 08/80.
component              NIA and MOH.
3.02 (a)      3.20     Design consultants    Appointment.               -      Started 1980.
Completed 1983.
3.02 (b)      3.25     O&M studies            Consultant's terms        -      Started 1980
of reference.                   and completed
1983.
3.05 (a)      3.16     Water rights           To be vested in           -      Done 1980.
NTIA.
4.03          3.36     Accounts and audit    Annual audited                    1989 reports
accounts and audit              received.
report to be
submitted within 6
months of FY end.
4.04 (b)      6.13     Water rates            NIA to levy and                  Complied.
collect water            -      Started 1981.
charges.



- 22 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
stage of Pr-otect Cyle~                                        Acul  Saff Weeks)
Pre-appraisal (LENP)                                                                           100.0
Appraisal through Board Approval (LENA + LENN)                                                  38.1
Supervision                                                                                     73.9
P C R                                                                                           10.0 '
TOTAL                                                                                          222.0
iJ Estimate
B. MISSIONS
Stage of           Month/    |   No. of    |   Days    I Specialization            I      P.rfor g     eTF n            I rtypes of
Project            Year      |   Persons   |       in   I                               Ratingr                           Probllms
Cycle                       I                   Field                            III
Preparation            7-8/79
Pre-AppraisaL          5-6/79            5              90             A,2B,2C
Appraisal             9-10/79            5              95             A,2B,2C                             1
Supervision:                                                                                               1
1                     9/80              1              7                 B                               2          1
II                    6/81              1              7                 B                                2         1              T
III                   6/82              2             14                A,B                               2         2             M,T
IV                    6/83              1              7                 B                               2          1             M,T
V                     1-2/84            2              10                28                               3         2              F
VI                  10-11/84            1             31                  B                                         2              F
VII                   10/85             1              8                  B            A    B    C        D         2              F
2    1    1       2
VIII                  11/86             2              16               B,C            2    1    2        2         2             F,M
IX                   9-10/87            1              8                 B             2    1    1       2          2             F,M
x                   11-12/88                           11                 B            2    1    1        2         2              F
Xi                    7-8/89            2             26                A,B            2    1    2        2         2              F
XII                    8/90             1              6                  A            3    1    3        3         2              F
XiII                  1-2/91            1              7                  B            2    1    2        2         2              F
P CR                 2-3/92             3             42                8,2C           2    2    2        2         2              F
TOTAL                                                383
J/   A z Agricutture; B = Engineers; and C = Economics.
/    Performance Rating:  1 = Problem-Free or Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; and 3 a Major Problems.
/    Trend:  1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; and 3 = Deteriorating.
J    Type of problems:  F - Financial; M = Management; and T = Technical.
SI    Revised Performance Rating:  A = AvailabiLity of Funds; B = Project Management; C z Development Impact; and D * Overall
Status.



23                                                     Figure 1
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organisation for Project Construction
NIA Board
Administrator
Assi stant
Administrator
Development and
Implementation
Project Manager
As:istant
Project Manager
Institutional
Engineering Division              Equipment Divion n                     Development Division            Administrative Division
7,ro  cidnt&L,                             idr   ratLP"w
[j~~ruct on   fficic                        consruction Office                           Construction Ofc
Eng insering           Equipment            Engineeorinig           Equipment             EngieeIngEupmn
Section               Section               Section                Section                Scto                  Seto
AgricuLturaL         Admini trative          AgricuLtura          Adm~i`nitrativ          Agricultural         Adoiniltrnativ
Development                                  DeveLopmentl              .to                Deve Mopmnt
Section         ~Section                          Section                           Section Sco~ nsci
Mongpong              Caguray                   CaLapan Field Office                          Nr    FedOffice
Field Offi ce       [Field Office I          (LDuLangan IL Mag-Asawan                   F     Tubig)9sta-a 8g



24
PHILIPPINES                                             Figure  2
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization for Operation and Maintenance
NIA Board
|     Adinistrator
I
Asl1stant
Ada inhtrator
Operations
"'Iz
|RegionaL
Irrigction  Manager
Region IV
InstitutionaL  Operations       Engineering             Mqupaat            Ad.inisttle             Aouin
iseLpn             Divisan                                     Dqenaiogeveni          Division             Division
MLindoro Orientat                         Mindoro Occidentat                                PaLwtan
District I                     oitit1                 ititIIDistrict IV
Catspan                      SablayNn San JosA                                          Marra
I                  Ic        r                     r 1 I                                   Im 
ZononenZone
|Superintendents |            |Superintendent         Superintendent                  Suporin endent
Divn DiviBsion                                        DiviSio                         Divi1ion
Supervisors                     Supervisor             Supervisor                     Supervisors
water                                           I       ter                            water
Man-gement                     ManageZent             Mangemen t                      hanage-ent
Technicians                    Technician             Technicins                       Technie ins
Ditch Tender                     Ditch Tenders      |Dith Tender |                     Ditch Tenderl



25
Attachment 1
Attachment 1
Potential Irrigable Area Estimated at SAR and PCR (ha)
;  Full Potetil Irrigable Area (ha)
1990/91 Irrigated Area
SAR               PCR                   (ha)
Ws   DS    WS    DS                   WS            DS
PALAWAN
Malatgao                   6,000   3,600    5,360    1,800       2,145         1,510
Batang-Batang              4,000   2,400      3,360     800      1,630          800
Sub-Total:               10,000   6,000     8,720    2,600      3,775        2,310
MINDORO ORMENTAL
Dulangan                    1,400    675       400      300        -             -
Bongabon                    6,000   2,880      -              -           -
Mag-Asawang-Tubig          14,600   7,020    5,040    3,150       1,160        1,280
Sub-Total:               22,000  10,575     5,440    3,450      1,160        1,280
MINDORO OCCIDENTAL
Caguray                     3,400   2,176     3,060     400       1,350         400
Mongpong                    2,400    1,536    1,940     500        820          350
Sub-Total:                5,800   3,700    5,000      900       2,170          750
TOTAL:                   37,800  20,275    19,160    6,950      7,105        4,340



- 26 -
Attachment 2
Page I of 4
Irrigation Systems
1.        Irritation Systems.   Brief descriptions  of the seven irrigation
systems proposed at appraisal and the actual implementation and achievements are
presented below:
2.        Design.  The SAR provided about 25 man-months of consultant services
to: (i) review hydrology and dam foundation data and advise on their locations;
(ii) assist NIA in major hydraulic designs; and (iii) prepare topographic maps
of irrigation areas from aerial photographs.
3.        These services were performed satisfactorily and within the budget
between 1980 and 1983.  Adequate documentation was left.  The six dams were
located and designed, but ultimately only two were built because of the 1985
project restructuring. The two which were built (Malatgao in Palawan and Caguray
in Mindoro Occidental) have both withstood post-typhoon floods successfully. One
criticism is that the very large sluice-gates on these dams are impracticably
heavy for manual operation, even through gearing, and in consequence are simply
left shut. Thus the investment in these gates, and indeed the dam itself, is not
being exploited and the main canal intake water-level not optimized.
4.        The review of hydrology completed in 1980 correctly identified the
over-estimate of dry-weather flow in three schemes, Caguray, Malatgao and Batang-
Batang in the 1979 appraisal.
5.        Malatgao.  This system was designed to have a 200 m long dam serving
canals on both banks of the Malatgao River to irrigate 6,000 ha.
6.        Construction of this system started in 1981 and was completed in 1990,
largely as planned at appraisal, with a diversion dam across the Malatgao River
and two intakes to serve each bank. A greater proportion of canals was lined
than anticipated at appraisal. On-farm development by farmers is in progress.
The total area served includes some 600 ha originally irrigated by the Taritien-
Malatgao communal irrigation system (CIS). The full potential irrigable area is
5,360 ha for wet season I/ and 1,800 ha for dry season 2/.  In 1990/91 crop
season, the system irrigated about 2,145 ha in wet season and 1,510 ha in dry
season.
1/  Area measured in field after construction of canals and after deducting
areas not irrigable because of unsuitability (high ground, residential, tree
crops) or for social reasons. See Attachment 1.
2/   Probable area 8 years out of every 10.



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
- 27 -
7.        Batang-Batang.  The Batang-Batang River system was to comprise a 115
m long dam to serve a single main left bank canal to irrigate 4,000 ha.
8.        The  design  of  this  system  was  modified  by  the  1985  project
restructuring. The dam was eliminated and replaced by a simple box-structure
intake with two gates to meter the canal discharge and two sluice-gates to scour
the approach channel. The approach channel has to be remodelled most years by
bulldozer after the floods, but otherwise the intake-only arrangement fulfills
its function adequately. The main canal of 15 km, serves 10 lateral canals, of
which 6 started in 1984, were constructed to bring the system to 75% completion
by February 1992.   About 10 km of canal is already concrete lined and the
intention is to continue this treatment. The full potential irrigable area is
3,360 ha in wet season and 800 ha in dry season. In 1990/91 crop season, the
system irrigated about 1,630 ha in wet season and 800 ha in dry season.
9.        Cagurav.  The Caguray River system was to consist of a 140 m long dam
to serve a single, left bank, canal and irrigate 3,400 ha.
10.       Construction of this system, started in 1980, was completed in 1990
generally in accordance with the appraisal proposal. There is a dam with a total
crest length including sluiceways of about 200 meters serving a single intake on
the left (south) bank which feeds water to the 15 km main canal. A small check
dam additional to the appraisal proposal was constructed on the Inanggihan River,
a tributary of the Caguray to augment the dry season flow. Because the sluice-
gates were not opened, this dam was overtopped by floods following the 1991
typhoon and the right bank training wall breached so that the dam is out of
action until it can be repaired. Modification of the sluice-gate operating gear
will be required.
11.       The main difference compared with the appraisal proposal is that the
Caguray dam flood sluice-gates were increased, apparently hurriedly in August
1981, to almost three times the original area to pass the same design flood.
This has made it virtually impossible to raise these gates manually and they
remained closed during the 1991 flood. Sedimentation upstream presently prevents
operation of the gates but the dam structure itself withstood the flood. The
full potential irrigable area is 3,060 ha in wet season and 400 ha in dry season.
In 1990/91 crop season, the system irrigated about 1,350 ha in wet season and
400 ha in dry season.
12.       Mongpong.  The Mongpong River System foresaw a dam of 175 m length
feeding a single intake on the right bank.  From the main canal an important
lateral was to cross under the river in a siphon to serve the left bank. Total
irrigable area was estimated at 2,400 ha.
13.       Construction of this system started in 1984 and has presently (March
1992) reached about 86% completion. The system was considerably modified by the
1985 project restructuring. The dam has been omitted and one simple intake was
constructed on the right bank at the dam location to serve 400 ha.  A second
simple intake was constructed 4 km downstream on the left bank to service some
900 ha on the left bank. A further 5 km downstream a third simple intake was
constructed on the left bank to irrigate an additional 300 ha. Finally a fourth



Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
- 28 -
check structure is presently being constructed on a right bank tributary which
drains the Tabtaban lake to the Mongpong River and this will add 400 ha of
service area to the right bank when it is completed later this year (1992). The
middle intake (i.e. the upstream, left bank, intake) was found to dry out
completely in the dry season because the river subsided below its permeable bed
for some 6 km of its length between the upstream and downstream intakes. No dry
season crop of paddy is therefore possible for the 900 ha of the left bank served
by this intake. The full potential irrigable area is 1,940 ha in wet season and
500 ha in dry season. In 1990/91 crop season, the system irrigated about 820 ha
in wet season and 350 ha in dry season.
14.       Dulanpan.   The intake arrangements for this system had been built
under MRDP up to Dulangan River right bank.   The project was to construct a
siphon under the Dulangan River and a canal on its left bank to irrigate
1,400 ha.
15.       Construction of this relatively small system started in 1980 and was
completed in 1990. It followed generally the appraisal proposal, except that the
potential irrigable area has in the event turned out to be less than half the
original proposal as a result of high ground and tree plantations. Diversion
works for the system were already constructed under MRDP up to the entrance to
siphon crossing of the Dulangan River.   Construction of the siphon and the
distribution systems were done under this project. The main canal was concrete
lined for all its length of 4 km.  Unfortunately parts of canals in the Baco
Bucayao River system, which supply the siphon have been washed out in flooding
and until they can be repaired water cannot be diverted to the Dulangan system.
The full potential irrigable area is 400 ha in wet season and 300 ha in dry
season. In 1991 crop season, the siphon was damaged by flood and the system was
not in operation.
16.       Ma,-Asawang-Tubig.   This  system was  to have  a 600 m  long  dam
incorporating a road bridge, situated about 10 km upstream of the existing
developments on the Mag-Asawang-Tubig River. It was to serve two long canals,
both falling 70 m over their first 11 km so requiring drop structures.   The
irrigable area was estimated at 14,600 ha.
17.       This system suffered the greatest change from its appraisal concept
as a consequence of the 1985 project restructuring. It dropped its service area
from over 14,600 ha to 5,040 ha as a result of abandoning the dam and long
canals. Presently the system diverts water from the Macatoc River to irrigate
an area north of the Municipality of Victoria of about 1,300 ha.  A separate
system irrigates a further 3,700 ha on both right and left banks of the
Mapalo/Pinagsbagan River by means of two main canals. Water is diverted from the
Mag-Asawang-Tubig River by an intake structure and by a short canal into the
Mapalo/Pinagsbagan system where a second check-dam serves the two canals. This
check-dam requires several details for completion but diversion is possible and
overall this system, which started in 1986, is presently 90% completed. The full
potential irrigable area is 5,040 ha in wet season and 3,150 ha in dry season.
In 1990/91 crop season, the system irrigated only 1,160 ha in wet season due to
drainage problems and 1,280 ha in dry season.



- 29 -                    Attachment 2
- 29 -              ~~~Page 4 of 4
PHILIPPINES
Medium Scale Irrigation Project
Ln. 1809-PH )
LOCATION OF IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
OULANGAN
O0.Ianga 0          TUDIG
A _  g000 me
Sablavan n    M I N D d R O   g)0             8      N
20001 He                X  
N~~~~~~~o 
5 n. I.,A O,U,AY
50 KM   000 m
-   ^               //   /  vtXJEf10 PT~~~~~~~~~~~~~incoss
5400 Ha~(tt /
MA rANGg A TAN
340 meg*IIRS
z   //                          v  \O   J^~~~~~~~~
g  yR                               u^~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
4 X                               'v'1'' t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
1/   -    aoaa              N                       AIIINDANAO~~~~~~~~~~~~M
ZDC3;;   * N 1 A otsc        l                        4      .~~MINOO






IBRD 14589
NOVEMMR 1979
120* 20                                           120'40'                                            2 1-00'                                           121-20'
5.
0 } u art~~~~ujro  Gaore                                                              r 
Abro do   I    log                                                                                               MIN 5odOo     ot ,
Pa lvan
P*LAWAN  (
~~400 H,          -8LkWA0AX1 ~         ~    t~  ~',5.
/.NDANAO
V 20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
srvccT,R   -                --  -
A                                                                                        5 MAM#4SAO (/t    4  $ "\ 'h(AX    \    ,   ,C I 
14,6000
rio~~~~~~~~Fi
Sto.Lboc -o O) I
1V40  PHILIPPINES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LZ
MSantaoSystems                                                                          IBLou GboAo B-
)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
13-00'                                                                  P~~~~~~~~t/ P ogo'.!5                                                            \>Qioio
A  Doisios, Of.  |s, Bonus (
* ~   ~         ~          ~         ~        3 Fil  Off ic ,es-
-  DinersLost Dams ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Bos
-       Main Canals                                                                                                       l 0
'2 '                 ~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                                      \                                                c!r.                               -
MEDIUM  SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT\as
Mindoro  Systems'                                                                                                                 rvAO         rS r-  
A     Dvision Olfficz                                           o    iulc                         i                                                    ^j W ^s
-     Div rsion Dams                                                   '     \J                             
Lt Laterol Canals                                                             Nf
Notional Highivoy Upgroding
-       Not,onoal H,ghkoy1
Pro,,nc,al Roads
I  Doms ond Rivers
Irrigation Areas
Area Subject To Flooding
---   Provincial Boundory                                                                        Si'20
1220~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
o            10           20            30 Kb.-r. -7
0       0o    '              X9.20 -                _                  0        it    '\               1  154M.I.s
o..,.ina..S...l p,m.,, h/t r rA lWada.* erfea. i--e c.e..ve                        (   .       -      _     .    I,AV,i'-
_r _ ra sea asz n. nr. _ r_v a..reAw en. am.... yee. th                  '                         -'
.,a.e  eeVA*ea -   tAe ei ea. e'r 0.*l - -v SiOflea,Ar-
12T20o                                            1240'                                             121-00'                                             12120'






IBRD 14590
I 1 1830           DECEMBER 1979
D IVERSION DAM
Tagpait
'.8 P-o.m
PR FOSDFELD
-     OFFICE
A- . of Mo,,   A                                               Totlo
Q- ~ ~~POPOSED Di VISON
OFFICE
TARITIENNMALA TOr0
Roook.CUMO,                          D~~~~~IV/ERSIOA 
Th, 1W h. b- WAP~. bY thI   W.ld 8.-^. tff .';,,.I, f rhS.
r1.8. C,o      .    to .8o b,. tr-        rrtcho . d.- ton-oo, nod *nd th.
hod.,.  hIN -o r,o r.po d00r ,piy on rsc p0 0f rh. Wo,Id 5o,,k IdI                                                        i        t
r  oo V/udm.Tonre 00 18 IgrI 90u0 oI onv teeomby or 0,71 ond nropo.o a,           /      \ 
BATANG - BATAP G                                                                                                              I.
BA TANG6 ATANG -Gonocan (Norro)
Di V RS~ON DAM
D,IFRSOVA   PHILIPPINES 91'
MEDIUM  SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Palawan Systems
-t    PROPOSED MAIN CANALS
--  PROPOSED LATERAL CANALS
*     PROPOSED DIVERSION DAMS
*     EXISTING DIVERSION DAMS
   PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREAS
-         _ EXISTING ROADS
RIVERS
o         1                   3 1
MILES
8     1      2     3            5
KILOMETERS
079939                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 l H03l



