Document of                   {sb   p
The World Bank f1Lr iu
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2714-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 25, 1980
%lhs ioeuomt ha a restrced dWtlbon and may be used by recipients only in the perfoanmce of
their official des. Its etents may not otherwise be disclosed withut World Dank aNgrztison.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Pesos (E )
P1     =  US$0.135
US$1   =  P 7.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I ha        =   2.47 acres
1 km        =   0.62 miles
1 sq km     =   0.386 sq mile
1 m         =   3.28 ft
1 sq m          10.76 sq ft
I cu m      =   35.31 cu ft
I M cu m    =   810.7 ac ft
1 mm            0.039 in
1 kg        =   2.2 lb
1 cavan     =   50 kg
20 cavans    =   1 m ton
ABBREVIATIONS
MAR    -  Ministry of Agrarian Reform
MOH    -  Ministry of Health
NEDA   -  National Economic and Development Authority
NIA    -  National Irrigation Administration
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:       National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
Amount:            $71 million
Terms:             The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, with interest at 8.25%.
Project            The proposed project seeks to increase yields and cropping
Description:    intensities on the islands of Mindoro and Palawan on about
37,800 ha which are currently rainfed or have only limited
irrigation. It provides for the construction of diversion
dams, irrigation and drainage facilities and related roads
and offices, provision of consulting services to assist
NIA in design engineering and training; procurement of
vehicles and equipment; and strengthening of the malaria
control unit in Palawan. Approximately 11,600 farm
families and 900 landless laborers' families, or a total
of 74,000 people, would benefit directly from increased
production and consequent employment. The project would
also create a demand for some 12,500 full-time farm-laborer
jobs. A total of about 12,000 people would be reached
under the malaria control component. No implementation
problems are anticipated, as NIA is a well managed, com-
petent organization, and has had considerable experience
in projects of similar scope.
Estimated Cost: /1
Local    Foreign    Total
…-- ($ million) ------
Irrigation systems                30.8      35.2        66.0
Input-output monitoring            0.6       0.4         1.0
O&M study and training             0.5       0.7         1.2
Strengthening of malaria unit
in Palawan                      0.2        0.2         0.4
Engineering, administration
and supervision                 7.0         -          7.0
Base cost estimate            39.1       36.5        75.6
Physical contingencies             4.9       4.9         9.8
Expected price increase           19.2      13.9        33.1
Total project cost            63.2       55.3       118.5
/1  Excludes customs duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
Bank                              15.7      55.3        71.0
Government                        47.5        -         47.5
Total                         63.2       55.3       118.5
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY        FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
--------------- ($ million) ----------
Annual          0.2    7.8   13.0   18.0   16.0   11.0    5.0
Cumulative      0.2    8.0   21.0   39.0   55.0   66.0   71.0
Rate of Return:   18%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2811-PH dated February 25, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $71 million
to help finance a Medium-Scale Irrigation Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines -
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under Sec M79-822 dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Fishery Training Project, distributed under
R79-290 and approved by the Board on December 18, 1979.



- 2 -
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio
of public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of international
inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine commodity exports.
As a result, real national income has been growing more slowly than real
national product, and, with the higher level of investment, the dependence
of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although the terms of
trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is still about
5.5% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manu-
facturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates.
In due course, it should, however, be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to
do so, and the efficiency of investment also needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of



-3-
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continueA rice
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process establishing their claim to the
land), but only about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin
amortization payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating
rice and corn land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100
million in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.



- 4 -
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Owing to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by about
2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor
live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have not
improved substantially. Although accurate statistics are not available, the
share of family income received by the poorest 40% of families appears to
have increased somewhat; the income share of the top 20% has remained about
the same; and that of the middle-income families has declined correspondingly.
Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains high, at 40-45%, in both rural
and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only



12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.
15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percent-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporations,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates were realigned in 1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow
of financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending
rates. Further reforms are required to increase the availability of
long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs have been
adopted to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural
areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries. A
deterioration of loan recovery rates was initially experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government has
taken a number of steps to improve collections; continued efforts in this
direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the
public finances.



-6-
External Trade and Capital Flows
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative
importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.6 billion (5.7% of GNP) in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 5.8% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 22% in 1979 to an
average level of 23% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D. C. in December 1979. This
amount is likely to be available. In view of the tight budget situation and
the fact that many of the projects planned for financing from external
sources have low foreign exchange requirements, some local cost financing,
either through increased cost-sharing arrangements or, alternatively,
through non-project lending, is necessary to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



-7-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS L1
22.       As of December 31, 1979, the Philippines had rer  ived 63 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,977.9
million and six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC
investments totalled $93.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is about 13% and its share in total debt
service is about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%,
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic
infrastructure, which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank
Group lending. In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the
irrigation system to increase food production and to credit programs to
support foodgrain production and processing and livestock, fisheries and
tree farming production. Support has also been provided for integrated
rural development projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also
provided large amounts of assistance in developing power and transportation
to provide the basis for future growth of the productive sectors.
Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure has been needed to
compensate for many years of past neglect due to low levels of public
expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main thrust has been on
strengthening the capacity of public and private development finance
institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of small
and medium industries.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project com-
pletion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are
likely to be in line with appraisal estimates.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Fishery Training Project (R79-290) which was
approved by the Board on December 18, 1979.



-8-
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides
for several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (December 1978)
and an upcoming first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed
areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance will
also be provided for integrated rural development projects which will support
the Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income.
Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry with con-
siderable attention given to policy reform and to expanding the development of
labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan
Manila area. A program loan to support major adjustments in industrial and
trade policies is currently being appraised. The share of lending for social
sector projects is expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of
greater emphasis on construction of urban water supply and sewerage systems
and further assistance for slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services
projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide support for improving the
quality of education and for expanding the Government's population program in
rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to provide support for
transportation and power infrastructure needed to support the Philippine
development effort, the share of Bank lending for these sectors will decline
somewhat in the years ahead primarily because alternative sources of financing
are available to finance a large part of the power generation program.
26.       This is the third loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for rainfed agriculture, urban and sewerage projects
are in preparation, and are scheduled for Board presentation in the coming
weeks. Loans for livestock/fisheries credit, watershed management, rural
roads and ports projects have been appraised and are expected to be presented
to the Executive Directors in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
27.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one-third of net domestic product, over one-half of
total employment, and more than half of export earnings. Over 70% of
the 9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of
cereals, of which rice and corn are the most important. About 1.2 million
ha are irrigated. The remaining land is taken up by the major export crops:
sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples, and tobacco.
28.       The performance of the agricultural sector is crucial in deter-
mining whether the Philippines can increase incomes both rapidly and
equitably. At present, the domestic market for industrial products is
limited by relatively low rural incomes. Although in recent years there
has been a substantial change in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture,
the problems of poverty and income distribution continue to be acute in
rural areas; of the 15 million people in the lowest 40% of the income scale,
12 million live in rural areas. To deal with this problem, the Government
has initiated a number of programs designed to assist the rural poor.



-9-
Government Obiectives and Strategy
29.       A major government objective has been to increase rice and corn
productior as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and of
attaining national self-sufficiency in food grains. After experiencing
substantial deficits in the early 1970s, rice production grew by 5% p.a.
during crop years 1974-77 and the Philippines was able to provide for
consumption solely from domestic production during the crop years 1975-77.
In 1978, the Government exported 270,000 tons and built up about a four-month
supply. The major factors contributing to the recent sharp rise in produc-
tion appear to be the continued expansion of irrigated area and high yield-
ing varieties on both irrigated and rainfed land and, more significantly, a
run of particularly favorable weather. With the continued growth in popula-
tion and incomes, the demand for rice is expected to rise by about 3.0%
annually over the period 1978-90. Based on a projected annual growth of
3.7% in production under average weather conditions, the Philippines is
expected, by 1985, to be in a position to export between 100,000 and 125,000
tons annually. By 1990, the Philippines could export from 350,000 to 375,000
tons. Exports of this magnitude (about 3% of projected world rice trade in
1990) could be accommodated without adversely affecting prices. This would
require an increase in irrigated harvested area of about 425,000 ha between
1977 and 1985 and an increase of about 200,000 ha between 1985 and 1990.
World Bank-assisted projects for which financing has been arranged or is
contemplated would provide about 240,000 ha of irrigated harvested area.
30.       The Government recognizes that in order to increase production in
both irrigated and nonirrigated areas further improvements in the quality of
supporting services will be necessary beyond those initiated in recent
years. In 1973, the Government instituted a national program for supervised
credit for rice production - Masagana 99 - which greatly increased the pro-
vision of production credit and technical assistance, mainly to smaller
farmers. However, the levels of arrears under the program have been very
high in the last several years and, as a result, the credit coverage of the
program has declined sharply. The Government is aware of this problem and
is presently reviewing a study of the causes of the high arrears, undertaken
by the Technical Board for Agricultural Credit under the provisions of Loan
1399-PH (Fourth Rural Credit Project). In the meantime, efforts are contin-
uing to enable farmers to make the most effective use of the lower level of
inputs they are able to afford using their own cash and noninstitutional
credit sources.
31.       The Government is also considering the steps necessary to bring
about needed improvements in the national extension service. A Bank
technical assistance mission visited the Philippines in April 1977, and a
report was given to the Government suggesting a number of organizational
improvements and better logistical support in the form of training, vehicles
and other facilities. The report provided the framework for the recently
initiated National Extension Project to which the Bank is providing assist-
ance (Loan 1626-PH). The Bank is presently helping the Government to



- 10 -
prepare a project to provide assistance to the agencies dealing with
agricultural research, crop protection, soils and agricultural economics.
Experience with Past Lending
32.       Since 1969, the Bank Group has financed 11 irrigation projects
designed to increase rice production in the country. These projects - three
in Central Luzon, four in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, one on
Mindoro Island, one in the Visayas and two for smaller systems throughout
Northern Luzon, the Visayas and Mindanao /1 - have set the pattern for the
type of irrigation rehabilitation, new construction, and operations needed
for increasing rice production. The projects are providing improved irriga-
tion and drainage facilities, better road systems for efficiency of operations
and maintenance and for the marketing of farm products, stronger supporting
services to assist farmers in adopting the new irrigation techniques needed to
increase production, and technical assistance and training to help the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA) expand and improve its irrigation
program. These projects would bring about substantial increases in rice pro-
duction on about 400,000 ha and would benefit over 200,000 farm families,
most of whom are smallholders.
33.       Work on the first Bank-assisted project, the Upper Pampanga River
Project (Loan 637-PH), is completed. Results to date have been favorable:
of a targeted yield of 3.8 ton/ha/crop, estimated to be achieved 13 years
after completion of construction, 90% was in fact achieved in the first year
after completion of construction. Progress on all the irrigation projects
has been generally satisfactory, and NIA has proved itself to be a well-
managed and technically competent organization. The total cost of the first
two projects was about 70% over appraisal estimates in the case of the
Pampanga Project (Loan 637-PH) and 55% in the case of the Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH/Credit 472-PH) largely because of rapid
inflation following the oil price increase in 1973. However, as a result of
considerable increases in the projected world market price of rice and
earlier than anticipated irrigation benefits, the estimated rates of return
on both projects have not changed significantly. After initial delays due
to contracting and mobilization problems, the irrigation component of the
Mindoro Rural Development Project (Loan 1102-PH) is progressing satisfactorily
and implementation is about 60% of the appraisal schedule.
/1 The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-
Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH, Credit 472-PH), Tarlac Irri-
gation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), Mindoro Rural Devel-
opment Project (Loan 1102-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project Stage I
(Loan 1154-PH), Chico River Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 1227-PH),
Jalaur Irrigation Project (Loan 1367-PH), National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project I (Loan 1414-PH), National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project II (Loan 1526-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project
Stage II (Loan 1567-PH) and Magat River Multipurpose Project, Stage II
Irrigation (Loan 1639-PH).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
BackRround
34.       The development of Mindoro and Palawan has lagged behind that of
the more populous and larger Luzon island. Mindoro is well endowed with
land and water resources and both islands have favorable climates being
largely free from typhoons. They are also relatively underpopulated and
are areas of active immigration from Central Luzon and the neighboring
Visayas where population pressures on land are intense. 'While NIA has had
plans for the development of the irrigation potential in Mindoro and
Palawan for many years, implementation has been delayed because of the need
to give priority to the traditional rice bowls in Central Luzon, Cagayan
Valley and Mindanao. Irrigation development in Mindoro and Palawan has
been limited in the past to private and/or communal schemes of 50 to 300 ha
located on small streams. The Mindoro Rural Development Project, initiated
in 1975 with Bank assistance (Loan 1102-PH), included provisions for the
improvement and expansion of two national irrigation systems of about 12,000
ha in Mindoro Oriental and helped to focus attention on the island's
irrigation potential. By 1978, the Mindoro Project Office had identified an
irrigable potential of about 70,000 ha spread over the two island provinces.
At the same time the Region IV Office of the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) proposed a project for the development of infrastructure in
Palawan, including irrigation development. As both islands are in the same
administrative region, NIA decided to combine the two sets of proposals into
a Medium-Scale Irrigation Project.
35.       The proposed project was appraised in September 1979.  Negotiations
were held in February 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Philippines -
Medium-Scale Irrigation Project" (No. 2811-PH, dated February 25, 1980), is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
The Project Area
36.       The project is located in the islands of Mindoro and Palawan,
which are southwest of the main Philippine island of Luzon. Mindoro is
separated from Luzon by a sea crossing of about 45 km, and Palawan is some
300 km southwest of Mindoro. Mindoro is divided administratively into two
provinces - Mindoro Oriental and Mindoro Occidental. The population lives
mainly in the rural areas, but there are a number of small towns around the
periphery of both islands. In Mindoro the most important town is Calapan in
Mindoro Oriental, where there is an important port and where banking,
storage and processing facilities as well as supplies of agricultural
inputs are to be found. In Mindoro Occidental similar facilities are
available in the town of San Jose. In Palawan the towns are generally
smaller and the services are less developed. Puerto Princesa is the most
important urban center. An existing gravel road along the eastern coast is



- 12 -
being improved and transformed into an asphalt-surfaced national highway in
Mindoro Oriental. The coastal gravel road along the western coast in
Mindoro Occidental is in a poor state and impassable during the rainy
season. There are plans for improvement of this road under a proposed
Bank-financed rural roads project. A network of provincial roads in Mindoro
connects various towns and villages to the main coastal roads. The situation
in Palawan is similar to that in Mindoro, with a coastal road on the eastern
side passing through the project area and connecting it to the provincial
capital of Puerto Princesa.
37.       The climate in the project area is tropical and monsoonal.  The
rainfall, together with river flows in the wet season, is generally adequate
for a single rice crop. Dry-season cropping, however, entails considerably
more risk, and irrigation is essential for a second crop. The soils of the
project area are well suited to rice which has been grown on them for many
years without problems.
38.       Some 11,600 farm families live in the project area.  While the
average farm unit is 3.3 ha, there are substantial differences between
subproject areas. In Palawan, the average farm size is 5.2 ha, in Oriental
Mindoro, 2.8 ha, and in Occidental Mindoro, 3.1 ha. More than half the farms
with 55% of the area are between 4 and 7 ha, and 15% of the farms with 34%
of the area are bigger than 7 ha. However, nowhere in the project area does
the average size of the farms bigger than 7 ha surpass 12 ha.
39.       Since 1972, the Government has pursued a program of agrarian reform
aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and corn
lands. Presidential Decree No. 27 (PD 27), the basic legislation of the new
program, provides for the transfer to the tenant, whether sharecropper or
leaseholder, of up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed area.
According to PD 27, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he cultivates the
land himself. Since there are some 2 million rice and corn farmers on about
4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are irrigated, there is little
prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha irrigated family farms
nationwide. The Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR) completed the issue of
land transfer certificates to tenants for all land in holdings 6ver 24 ha
in 1975. In November 1974, the Government decided to proceed with the
transfer of land in holdings between 24 and 7 ha. In October 1976, the
Government extended the provision of PD 27 to holdings of less than 7 ha,
belonging to landowners with more than 7 ha of other agricultural land, or
belonging to landowners with residential, commercial or urban land from
which they derive adequate incomes to support themselves.
40.       Some 9,500 people own the 37,800 ha in the project area.  At
present, almost 45% of the farmers own the land they are farming and account
for 55% of the area; the rest are tenant farmers. After completion of land
reform, expected to occur by the end of project construction in 1985, some
23,600 ha, or 63% of the project area, will be cultivated by 6,100
owner-operators equivalent to 53% of the farmers. The remaining 5,500 would
operate under a written lease agreement.



- 13 -
Principal Prolect Features
41.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) construction of six diversion dams;
(b) construction of irrigation and drainage facilities and
service roads on a total area of about 38,000 ha of
currently rainfed lands;
(c) construction of three new division offices and three new field
offices and extension of two existing division offices and two
field offices;
(d) provision of consulting services to assist NIA in
design of the diversion dams and major structures and
in the training of personnel for detailed topographic
maps based on up-to-date aerial photography;
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment for project implementation
and operation and maintenance; and
(f) strengthening of the malaria control unit of the Ministry of
Health in Palawan.
The project would also make provision for strengthening the existing NIA
input-ouput monitoring organization and for its expansion to cover the
project area, and consulting services to evaluate the operation and
maintenance aspects of all national irrigation systems and to develop a plan
for their improvement.
42.       Diversion Structures.  New diversion structures would be
constructed for six of the seven irrigation systems, which would be ungated
concrete weirs of ogee type, 140-600 m long, 1-2 m high with intake
structures and sluice-ways. An operations bridge would be provided across
the diversion dam of the Mag-asawang Tubig system in the Mindoro Oriental
subproject. Existing diversion works of communal systems within the project
area would be improved and integrated with the project works.
43.       Irrigation and Drainage Works.  The main irrigation networks
within the seven systems would consist of about 145 km of main canals and
415 km of laterals. Because of steep topography, 3 or 4 drops of 15 to 20 m
high would be built on the right main canal of the Mag-asawang Tubig system
in Mindoro Oriental and a drop 21 m high on the main canal of Batang
Batang system in Palawan. These drops may be used in the future to produce
hydro-electricity. Canals and laterals would be unlined except for short
lengths where the soils are erosive. Gravel-surfaced operation and
maintenance roads would be constructed on the canal banks. About 70 km of
3.5 m wide access roads would also be provided as links between the existing
major roads of the area and the canal operation and maintenance roads.



- 14 -
These roads would also serve as farm-to-market roads. Gravel surfacing
would be provided on some of the major existing farm-to-market roads. The
design of on-farm distribution and drainage works would be similar to that
in other Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines. The land in the project
area is reasonably level and well laid out, with little fragmentation of
land holdings; no land leveling or boundary realignment would therefore be
provided, except for brush clearing and some land leveling on about 3,200 ha
in Palawan.
44.       Input-Output Monitoring.  A program of input-output monitoring was
established under the Chico River Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH) and
extended under the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project II
(Loan 1526-PH) to cover all other Bank-assisted irrigation projects. The
objectives of the program are to monitor the flow and build-up of farm
inputs in each project area before and during each crop season and monitor
the size and the recipients of benefit flows. The program would be extended
to the systems of the Mindoro Rural Development Project (Loan 1102-PH) and
the proposed project.
45.       Operation and Maintenance Study and Training.  NIA is currently
building and rehabilitating about 320,000 ha with Bank Group assistance and
another 96,000 ha with assistance from the Asian Development Bank. It is
expected that by 1985, NIA will have about 800,000 ha of upgraded national
irrigation systems under operation. With the completion of major irrigation
development, the emphasis in NIA will change from construction to operation
and maintenance. The proposed study would evaluate the present situation
and develop a plan of action for the operation and maintenance aspects of
all national irrigation systems. Assurances were obtained that NIA would
prepare terms of reference and an outline of the study to be financed under
the present loan and, after review by the Bank, that it would carry out the
study with the assistance of consultants, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Provision
would be made for fellowships and study tours for NIA staff working on
design, construction, operation and maintenance, input-output monitoring and
the agricultural aspects of irrigation projects.
46.       Strengthening of Malaria Control Unit in Palawan.  Malaria is the
leading disease in Palawan and is a major factor in reducing farm labor
productivity. The ongoing Ministry of Health (MOH) program suffers because
of lack of financial resources and trained personnel. Provision would be
made for a concentrated effort by the malaria unit in Palawan in the two
project municipalities of Narra and Aborlan. The major emphasis of control
would be on residual house spraying, weekly larvicide applications in
selected breeding places, expansion of biological control measures and
reinforcement of surveillance operations through information campaigns. The
project would provide field laboratories, equipment, vehicles and increased
personnel. Assurances were obtained that NIA and MOH would enter an agree-
ment acceptable to the Bank before December 31, 1980 for the implementation
of this component (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Organization and Management
47.       NIA would be responsible for all components of the project, except
for the public health aspects in Palawan, which would be executed by the
Ministry of Health (MOH) through the Malaria Eradication Service.
48.       NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the
Philippines. The agency is governed by a board of directors and managed by
an Administrator appointed by the President of the Philippines. NIA has
recently been reorganized in order to improve its capacity to deal with the
requirements of the Government's policy of irrigation development. The
major foreign-assisted projects were previously administered under a Special
Projects Organization headed by an Assistant Administrator who handled all
project aspects such as implementation, operation and maintenance and
finances. These aspects are now handled by four Assistant Administrators.
The most crucial aspects of project implementation - design, procurement and
construction - would be handled by the Assistant Administrator for
Development and Implementation. NIA is currently responsible for 20 major
foreign-assisted projects and has built up a structure of staff which, with
specialist consultant input where necessary, is competent to implement
large-scale projects.
49.       NIA intends to use the Director of the Mindoro Rural Development
Project (Loan 1102-PH) as Project Manager of the proposed project. The
Director is a senior NIA employee who was closely involved in the
formulation and preparation of the proposed project. The Rural Development
Project is approaching completion and will therefore make fewer demands on
his time. The project area would be divided into five construction
divisions; each division would be headed by a project engineer who would
assist the Project Manager in day-to-day activities.
50.       The project provides for consulting services to assist in the
preparation of topographic maps and to train NIA survey personnel in new and
advanced survey procedures and photogrammetry. A provision of 25 man-months
for such services would be made at an overall rate of $8,000 per man-month.
consisting of a billing rate of $6,000 per man-month, international travel
expenses of $800 per man-month, and local expenses of $1,200 per man-month.
The project would also provide for consulting services to assist NIA in the
design of all diversion dams and other major structures estimated at 45 man-
months at an overall rate of $10,000 per man-month, consisting of a billing
rate of $8,000 per man-month (including home-office overhead), international
travel expenses of $800 per man-month, and local expenses of $1,200 per
man-month. Consulting services would also be required for the operation
and maintenance study, for which a provision of 45 man-months at an overall
rate of $10,000 per man-month has been made. The project would also provide
for 30 man-months of local consultants at an average cost of $3,000 per
man-month to assist NIA in setting up the input-output monitoring system.



- 16 -
51.       For operation and maintenance purposes, the entire project area of
37,800 ha would be administered by a single Project Manager. There would be
six support divisions dealing with administration, accounting, equipment,
engineering, operations and agricultural aspects. The project area would be
divided into five Irrigation Districts; each district would be divided into
50 ha irrigation units. A ditchtender would supervise two such units (100
ha), while a Water Management Technician would control five ditchtenders
(500 ha). A supervisor would be responsible for a water management
division, which includes five Water Management Technicians (2,500 ha).
52.       There are several Ministry of Agriculture research substations in
the project area engaged mainly in rice variety and fertilizer trials and
seed multiplication. The Ministry is currently in the process of
reorganizing the extension service and improving its efficiency throughout
the Philippines with Bank Group assistance (Loan 1626-PH). In addition, the
project would provide for the recruitment of 76 Water Management Technicians
who would be incremental to the existing support personnel provided by the
various Government agencies. All subproject areas are served by a good
network of dealers of fertilizer and agrochemicals which would have the
capacity to handle the additional demand generated by the project without
difficulty.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at $118.5 million, of which
$55.3 million or 47% is foreign exchange. Since NIA does not pay taxes or
duties on imported equipment, materials and supplies, all these costs
exclude such taxes. Costs include a physical contingency factor of 15% for
ci-vil works. Expected price increases over the implementation period amount
to about 39% of the base cost plus physical contingencies. The following
annual inflation rates were assumed for the equipment and civil works: local
costs 16% in 1980, 10% in 1981 and 7% in 1982-86; foreign exchange costs
10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% in 1983-85. The proposed Bank
loan of $71.0 million would finance the full foreign exchange costs and
$15.7 million of the local project costs.  Justification for local cost
financing is contained in para. 21 of this report. The Government would
provide the remaining $47.5 million to NIA and MOH through annual budget
appropriations.
Procurement
54.       Equipment, vehicles, spare parts and supplies for force account
construction, operation and maintenance for the project area, strengthening
of the malaria unit in Palawan, input-output monitoring and the operation
and maintenance study, costing about $10.0 million, would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local



- 1 7 -
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less
than $20,000 each would be procured through normal government procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank; the total cost for such items would not
exceed $400 000.
55.       Construction of the diversion dams, intake works and main canals
for the two irrigation systems in Mindoro Oriental ($15.0 million) would be
let on contracts and awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The remaining civil works in the
project service area ($45 million) would be scattered over seven separate
locations in three different provinces and two islands. These works would
be split into a number of contracts and would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. In the past, NIA has experienced considerable
difficulty in attracting bids for the works of the Mindoro Rural Development
Project (Loan lluo-PH). About 70% of the total works in that project are
being implemented by force account. It is doubtful that all civil works
could be done by contract and some of them would therefore be carried out by
force account. In previous Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the amount of
civil works to be done by force account was limited to 40% of the total cost,
as lower limits were found to be unrealistic. An assurance was obtained
that the amount of civil works carried out by force account would not exceed
40% of the total cost of civil works excluding those subject to international
competitive bidding (Schedule 4.C.2 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
balance of civil works would be carried out on the basis of competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures which have been reviewed by Bank
staff and found to be acceptable. There is adequate competition and foreign
firms would be eligible to participate.
Disbursements
56.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment
procured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be 55% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. Disbursement for force account
works would be made against certificates of expenditure; the documentation
for works would show the quantities of major items of works accomplished and
the expenditure would be based on agreed unit rates. NIA would submit a
detailed unit rate analysis with supporting documents for Bank review before
December 31, 1980 and whenever any change in the unit rates is desired.
Disbursement for minor contracts (less than P 1 million) would also be
made against certificates of expenditure based on actual payments made to
contractors. The borrower would make available all documents related to the
force account and minor contract expenditures for inspection by the Bank's
supervision mission. The project offices of NIA have the staffing and
institutional capability to provide such documentation in a satisfactory
manner. For civil works contractors' mobilization and equipment, disburse-
ment would be at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditure. For consulting
services and technical assistance, disbursements would be at the rate of
100% of total costs. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1986, approximately one year after the end of construction.



- 18 -
Environmental Effects
57.       The proposed drainage works for the Mag-asawang Tubig system in
the Mindoro Oriental subproject would have a beneficial effect on the
schistosomiasis-infected areas of the system. The area is also covered by
the schistosomiasis control program under the Mindoro Rural Development
Project (Loan 1102-PH). Malaria is prevalent in Palawan and parts of
Mindoro. The government program of house spraying with residual insecti-
cides is effective in Mindoro, and in Palawan the proposed provision to
strengthen the malaria control unit would have a beneficial effect. The
other main health problems in all three areas are protein deficiencies in
small children, enteric diseases and tuberculosis. The proposed project
would have little impact on these.
Farm Incomes
58.       For 2.5 ha farms, the average farm size in the Mindoro subproject,
the present per capita incomes range from $35 for an amortizing owner L1 on a
rice farm to $80 for an owner-operator on a coconut farm. These incomes are
well below the per capita absolute poverty level of $200 and vary from 6% to
13% of the estimated 1980 per capita GNP of $600 for the Philippines. With
the project, the per capita incomes of these farms would range from about
$195 for a leaseholder to $295 for an owner-operator. These leaseholders
would almost reach the absolute poverty level while owner-operators would
surpass it by almost 50%. These incomes would still range from 20% to 30%
of the 1990 projected per capita GNP of $975.
59.       In Palawan, where the average farm size is 5 ha, present per
capita incomes vary between $35 for an amortizing owner to $80 for an
owner-operator, also substantially below the absolute poverty level. With
the project, per capita incomes would increase to $295 for leaseholders and
$510 for owner-operators. Incomes of these farmers would, therefore, rise
above the 1980 absolute poverty level and range between 30% and 50% of the
projected 1990 per capita GNP.
60.       These comparisons indicate that the project would increase incomes
of about 11,600 farm families as well as 900 landless families in the
project area and would help narrow the income gap between the project area
and other parts of the country, and between urban and rural areas.
Cost and Rent Recovery
61.       NIA has the authority to collect fees from users of irrigation
systems to finance operations and to reimburse construction costs.
Irrigation charges on national systems other than those which are assisted
by the Bank are 2.0 cavans (100 kg) of paddy/ha in the wet season and
/1 Ex-tenant farmer in the process of purchasing holding under Agrarian
Reform provisions.



- 19 -
3.0 cavans/ha (150 kg) in the dry season. On Bank-assisted projects, the
charge of 3.5 cavans (175 kg) of paddy/ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans
(220 kg) in the dry season, is to be achieved gradually over five years from
completion of construction. Assurances were obtained that the same rates
would apply to the irrigation facilities financed under the proposed project
(Section 4.04(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Based on the above water charges, the rent recovery index was
examined for different farm tenures, types and locations. Indices have been
presented for owner-operated and leaseholder-operated 2.5 ha farms in
Mindoro currently under rainfed rice or coconuts and for 5 ha rainfed rice
farms in Palawan. The incremental rent recovery index for the project
beneficiaries ranges from 15% for an owner-operator on a Mindoro rice farm
to 40% for a leaseholder on a Palawan farm. The high index in Palawan would
be due to the lower level of yields expected at full development. The
average incremental rent recovery index is 20%. While these indices show
that there would be scope for further cost recovery, even at full development,
more than half the farmers in the project area would be below the absolute
poverty level, which in the Philippines is a reasonable approximate value of
the critical consumption level. Taking the present value of the incremental
water charges, project costs, and annual operation and maintenance costs,
the cost recovery index is 16%. The index is smaller than those in other
Bank-assisted projects in the Philippines. This is due to the fact that the
proposed project consists primarily of construction of new irrigation faci-
lities while previous projects have had large components aimed at rehabili-
tation of existing facilities. Under the provisions of Loan 1367-PH, NIA is
preparing for Bank review by June 30, 1980, a plan of action to improve the
rates and methods of fee collection on the national irrigation systems, the
effectiveness of which has varied widely in the past. Assurances were
obtained that the Government would take all necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collection of the irrigation fees, and that the Government and
the Bank would consult annually on the adequacy of the charges and the
collection thereof (Section 4.04(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Justification
63.       The proposed project would increase yields and cropping intensities
on about 37,800 ha which are currently rainfed or have only limited irriga-
tion. The incremental annual production due to the project would be 175,000
tons of paddy. Approximately 11,600 farm families and 900 landless laborers'
families, a total of 74,000 people, would benefit directly from the process
of increased production and consequent employment. The project would create
a demand for an additional 3 million man-days of farm labor per year, equiva-
lent to some 12,500 full-time jobs. About 98% of the project beneficiaries
live in the target group. The project's cost per ha of $2,185, excluding
costs due to expected price inceases, is in line with the costs of previous
Bank-assisted irrigation projects. The project would meet the Government's
objectives of increased food production and more balanced regional distribu-
tion of development at a capital cost of about $7,170 per benefited farm



- 20 -
family. The malaria component would benefit approximately 12,000 people,
at a cost of about $200 per family in the endemic area. At full
agricultural development the project would result in an incremental rice
production with an export value of about $61 million per year at forecast
world market prices. After deducting the incremental cost of imported
fertilizer, chemicals, and fuel, the net export value would amount to about
$50 million.
64.       Discounting incremental project costs including operation and
maintenance costs after the fifth year and benefits expressed in border
prices over a 40-year evaluation period, the economic rate of return for the
project is 18%. At a discount rate of 10%, the economic net present value
of the project in mid-1980 is $58 million. The economic rates of return
for the different subprojects are 17% for Mindoro Oriental, 20% for Mindoro
Occidental and 19% for Palawan.
65.       Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which variables would
be most crucial to the success of the project. These variables include full
development yields, world market price of rice, cropping intensity,
construction costs, yield development period, and the economic wage rate.
The success of the project is mildly sensitive to future yields of paddy and
to cropping intensity. Failure to reach the anticipated yield levels or to
realize the projected cropping intensity at full development would pose the
highest potential risk to the project. Since progressive farmers in the
area are already reaching the projected yields, the likelihood of a
shortfall in expected yield levels is small. Cropping intensities, on the
other hand, are presently at the crossover value in the existing, mostly
rainfed, rice lands. Therefore it is unlikely that they would drop below
this level.
Risks
66.       No major problems of implementation are anticipated since this
would be the twelfth Bank-assisted irrigation project in the Philippines and
NIA has developed considerable experience over the period of association.
However, a six-year implementation period has been adopted to allow for the
geographic dispersion of the project over three provinces.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 21 -
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 25, 1980



- 22  -                                            ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 5
flLL EINB - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MLIPPIN&S           UYUNCE GROUPS (ADJIUSTED 3AuGP
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. Di.)                                                -OLIPPINS  -RNCT RECENT AST DAITE)  E
TOTAL            300.0                                                    5         SMI      hrICT HIC
ACRICULTURAl      86. 7                               If D3T RECENT   GEOGRAPHIC    nICOlE      INCOME
1960  lb    1970 A  ESTIATE /b       REGION LI   GOUP M    GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 140.0       230.0    510.0            528.9      467.5       1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KLOGRAMS O  COAL EQUIVALENT)     147.0       301.0     329.0           371.1      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. HI-YEAR  (MILLIONS)     27.4        36.9      44.5
UlAN POPULATION (PERCENT 0 TOTAL) 30.1         31.8      34.0            27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (bMLLIONS)                      76.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       128.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS ZACGUD                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. kt.                       91.0       123.0    148.0            154.8       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. 1I. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0       472.0     513.0           566.7      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-L4 TRS.                         44.7        45.5      46.0            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        53.6       51.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 Ys. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9       3.0             3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PEDCDNT)
TOTAL                              2.7         3.0       2.7             2.4        2.7         2.4
UIUAN                              4.0         3. 8      3.5             4.3        4.3         4.5
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (PER TS3USAND)     45.0        43.0      35.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     15.0        11.0       9.0             8.3       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5sf       3.3       2.4             2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSADS)       ..        191.7    643.0
USERS (PElCENT OP MJRRIED WOEN)   ..           2.0      22.0            34.1        3.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-LOO)         100.1       101.0     111.0           106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0        86.0      87.0           104.1       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAKS PER DAY)          44.0        45.0      50.0            57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0L      22.0      19.2            16.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0        10.0       7.0             4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALT3
LIFE EXPEC-ANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0         57.0      60.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PEU
T8OUSAND)                           98.0        80.0      65.0            46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       39.0            21.9       34.4        60.5
URBAN                               ..         ..       51.0            46.2       57.9        75.7,
RURAL                               ..         ..       33.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      56.0            28.4       40.8        46.0
URBAN                               ..         ..       76.0            65.0       71.3        46.0
RU'RAL                              ..         ..       44.0            14.7       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN              *-          *-   3150.0           3790.3     6799.4      2262.4
POPt'LATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3840.0    4990.0          1107.4     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1180.0       850.0     880.0           613.3      726.5       453.4
URAN                                ..         ..        ..            203.6      272.7       253.1
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..          1110.3     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            23.9       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              i.8         5.9       ..              5.2        5.4         5.3
URBAN                               ..         6.'       ..               ..        5.1         5.2
RURAL                               ..         5.8       ..               ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TDTAL                                          2.3                                              1.9
ERBAN                               ..         2.1        ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                               ..         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS :0 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELL:NGS)
TOTAL                             16.5        22.9/h    31.0              ..       28.1        50.0
LUBAN                               ..        62.8jh      ..              ..       45.         71. 7
REURAL                              ..         5.8jh    10.0              ..        9.9        17.3



-23-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABULE3
P8L!W!W8- socw. INDICATORS DATA Sun
p    i                   REFERENCE OUPS (ADJUSUD AJ S
- MOST RCN   SIAE
1D08  flOT        OSAPRIC   INGN        INCOME
1960 lb    1970 Lb UTIATZE L       REGION L   SOUP d         UP j
DOUCATION
FRIM"Tt    TOTAL                95.0       114.0    105.0            97.9       82.7       102.5
MALE                98.0       115.0    102.0            98.7       87.3      108.6
rmua               9n.0        113.0    109.0            97.4      75.8        97.1
SODSEU :  TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0           42.2       21.4        33.5
MAZ                 28.0        59.0     65.0            46.7      33.0        38.4
FMW.Z               25.0       42.0      47.0            40.9      15.5        30.7
VOCIONAL EOWL. (Z OF SE )NDARY) 15.0           6.0       ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PIWIL-TEACHER SATTO
PRMARY                          36.0        29.0      29.0           32.5       34.1        35.8
ECONDARY                        27.0        33.0      31.0           25.8       23.4        22.9
ADULT IJY RACY RATE (PEY:SNT)     71.9        82.6      87.0           84.1       54.0        64.0
CoNSUMlPIoN
PASSENOk CARS PER DWSAND
POPULATION                       3.0         8.0       8.9            6.1        9.3       13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TBUSAND
POPULATION                      22.0        39.0      44.0           84.4       76.9      122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                       1.4        10.0      17.0           22.4       13.5       38.3
INSPAPER ("DAJUU GZEZRAL
DTEREST") CICULATION PER
TIOUSAND POPULATION               17.0        14.0      18.0           24.2       18.3       40.0
CIIMA ANNUAL ATTDANUCE PER CAPITA  0.6          ..       7.6            3.6  -    2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TaIUSADS)   10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                34.4        33.1      35.3           36.7       29.2       25.0
AiRICULTu  (PERCENT)            61.0        55.0      50.9           54.6       62.7       43.5
INDUSTsr (PERCENT)              15.2        15.8      14.8           16.3       11.9       21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             39.8        36.6     35.3            40.7       37.1       33.5
MALE                              52.1-       48.6      47.1           49.9       48.8       48.0
FEMALE                            27.4        24.4     23.3            31.0       20.4       11.8
ECOMOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.3         1.4       1.3            1.1        1.1        1.4
INCO1fE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHESr 5 PERaT OF HOUSEOWS   28.8            ..        ..           14.9       15.2       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSE8OLDS 56.2       53.9      53.3           46.8       48.2       52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   4.2        3.7       5.5            6.2        6.3        3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLDS   11.9       11.9      14.7           16.8       16.3       12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..    250.0           193.1      241.3      270.0
RURAL                             ..          ..    190.0           128.7      136.6      183.3
ESTIXATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LA                                ..          .      132.0          136.8      179.7      282.5
RURAL                             ..          ..      87.0           96.8      103.7      248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOWTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             ..          ..      39.0           32.C       24.8       20.5
RURAL                             ..          ..      44.0           52.5       37.5       35.3
.    t    .ILI.
*Ac -atubl .
/u           ed9ad semp averages for each isiaLAtor are papulatioce lght*d geamtric means, *zeluding the extrme
vlesee of the Idicator an the met pepuJated coutry in each Sroup. Cowrage of countries among the
indiCatrs depend an evaliabity of data nd le not unifom.
/b   Ukess otherwie noted, data for 19f0 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
nd 1971; and for %ost ecent&tit. betwen 1974 and 1977.
/c   East hAle A Pacific;  /d  Lor Middle Ircom  ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /I  IntermadiaL. Middle Income
(5551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /f  1950-55;  L.  Av. 1960-62; /b  1967, hou;eholds.
Most Recent EstLae of OW per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 24 -                                                                                ANNEX I
WINIT=   Of   _______CAT                                                                        Page    3   of   5
otes:iAlthoghthe data ar  dram  tri  scone  gaIIrelly Judged the meat anthoritative and ralisble, it shnald, a1n be ants that they onme hatb  intern.-
tioaal    om .ral  bota-z  of the Lack of standrdised deflaitio  ms d esmeeta 'ad by dirffrme  countri.s it collecting the data. Th  data ars, toamtheia,,
oseful to deacribe ord-r  of  aguitude, indiate areeda *ad charmntrie  mcata,L  maJor differsrs   bsteaa  countrie..
ma ajoied goutavrgesf-r each indicator an popl.tion-esibtad gastric  mat, eme-Ind    the extra   -I..e. of the indicator an  the meat popaatad
coutryin  achgrop.   ton   to   c  of data, grop avrage  of ti]. jadicator  far Capit.i harpis  Oil  aportar  and of indicator  of Acce-  to Watr an  E-reta
Disposal, anoaLag, 1oost Distribution and Poverty for other coutry poape ar  pfislatiho-aehtad gsatrc means vithout excluniw  of the extra   vas.ad
the   at poalatd coutry.  Since thcveag  of  "ontIs    ntte                        iatr        meds,naaiaiit    fdaaed is not uniform. eation  -t bo eaerised
iniaoraI tin  sng the coutry sod referean  grops.
LAND  EAM  (thousad sqh.C                                                                       cest   lreaDsoa   pevo    fpoltin      oa    rbn   n   ua
Total - Total surac   ara1opito   ad are  and inland  -tters.                                   Mase  of peol   ttl  urban, an  ruralMaervd by enrta dis-poaaa
Agricultural -  Mtat recet vitiate of agiculturs. ta   used t.vr*-ily                          p-rcetages of their  -epetive ppalation. dacrtt  disposal may  -lor .d
or permsetly for crops, pstursa, sakat and kithm   garde  or to                             the  -o1etian and disposal1, vith or citheut treatmet, *f laes s-rrte
lie  fallo.                                                                                  and nate-eater by at-horse  eysti   or the  -s  of pit prvesad soaiso
lI   P   CPn S.a   -   rprcaiaetansa   uretmre                         prcs             P.Eet4ap= .ey~ Icd             - Poplatiom  dividad by cambe  of practicing  phyaioisn
samedbd,    conversio   method as World hank Atlas (1976-78 basis);                    qCifitid'?   iti6a   ahi a.           t univerity I.vaI.
ipo   97,ad1978 dta.                                                                         PpoLatiat on  m-iais Person - Popaltia divided by este   of praticing male
2EF!ITY c         0ttasi  PEP CAPITA - Ocoa-i ocasomtion of ovarviaL enrg                        ad teals. grad,ate oas.,pr-tie-I  -use, and  ssiatuntorss
(col ad igoir,  etelso    oaurl ga  sd lyd--, malaur sad ge-                        Peulnpe   o1ti  e      oa. carhn  and rura  - Ppulation   total, urban,
therma.-l ericity)j in  lograsa=  of co.al eqai-aet per capita; 190,6                         an   a )dvddb   hi   epective ase 'f bsca   esaalbe
1970  and i976 data.                                                                           pablic and private genral and aadalte    htpita1 and  -eaiiitatioo center.
toepitala ar  eatablilestoi  peraetly staffed by at Isast one phyacist-.
PORUOATION Alit VTTAL STATISTICS                                                                 Establishments providing  prioipaly  custodial car  ar  ot i-cldad  R- Hr
TotaPootitMdtr .ei.oon) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                                        hospitals, howve   lonlde health  n  nadical centers vot permnetiy stafed
1977data,by_. pyian(but by a medical asistnt, ore, m1idefe, etc.) ehiob offer
Urbam Ppation  (ervet of -totl) - Ratic  of urban to total poclatic                            is-pattent acoedation  and proide a Iiitdec  rage of medical  acilitie..
dfeotdefItoitiov   of urba  areo may affect coep-bility of data                     Admiasiooe0pr Hospital Sd- Total cobar of  dia sto or discharges fac
usin  coocarcs;  960. 1970, and 197  data.                                             hospita1  divided by the cater of hod..
byp~94onc5ypac~M   - torret  popuitio   pr ciooa ac  tuned on                      U0I0G
195toa =ppltion bYC`age and  e  aod'their-etality and fertility                   Average Si.e of H-ooshlid (persova per bouehod) - total, urban   .adrua -
vote-  Projectior parantera for mertaity rates comrise of thre                            A hoa-hbod -onists of a grop of iodiidaal.s to  star  li~iog q-tr-r  sod
level    --uen   lifo  oPeotanry no bitoh Iahoae -iog cbh coutoy,                         thire man meaI..  A boud.r or lodger may or  wt tot be isoloded co tie
per capita icco   level  sad f.-Ie life expectany oteilinig at                            loose. hold for statistical porposes.
77.5 fenra.  The paotetrs for f-rtulity rate ala  have thre  le-el                      OeAge camberfpErson  per reo                 - toal rbn  and rural - OeA...ge contra
osusogdclcec  fertility   ccrdIng to  Incmela                     and past                of      .. -ee   e   oo   naluban  andtrurl occpied  dcvotu -lIeliogo
family  -loing pefrmne.-          -hcutry inthnaagsed one oftibea                         repectively.  DPecuiAgs ealde ca-permnet otrutore  and    -ovpied part..
cOoscatnetins  f  Mertlity and fertility trends for p-j,ttiot                     Access to Electricity (peroet of dtel1iing) -  totl, urban  and rura  -  lo-
porpov.-otiona  ivItga coth  livenricity in li-ct   qcartvrs Ia percetag   f!
Statoay  ootiico                 - a  tti-onr  population there is no g-oth                 total  urban   n   ualdeoorepciey
bcetieiit    raei  eo t  the death rate, and also the age
strucur   ven     osat. This ic ahieved onl  after fertility  mica                 EDLXATION1
decline to tic replacnet  eei of unit .ev reproduction rats, o.n                        AdJunted Eorolimet Ration
each geertinofcae  relcsctefe tly.  The stationr  poe-rmayoh7                                              - tota.   l  sod femle-drs  total-, -ale td resal    -11ol-
Istoeieoo ftmted  ontbe luc,iaff the projected oharaterttics                                seto llae   t the primay  ecl aspecetae   of r-protiv- pr:nsry
of the popootiocitthe year 2000, too the rote of decline of fvrtility                       ochsoi-ge popo"isoc ..m. .i  includes childre   aged 6-11 year  but
rateto replocemet I-r'.                                                                     adjusted for diffe-et leogtbe of prinacy edoatioc; for o-ctrirs  ith
tear stati-cr  poclatioo is reactd - The year che  otatto...y popuatiot                       unvrsat bctc   onoletmy ecceod 100 pert e                       i-oov  oc   copil
Per so. yin. -KOd-y-a  population  per  qtar  kilomter (100 heetare) of                        edac.atio requ-ro  at  rat four year  of  pyr-od prcecoy i.totroto ,.
total araproide. genera  coctio...l, or teacher traitiog iatroti-c  for pcpcio
Per ,oi0.  sgioluri ed - Cmpeted - above for  WgicuIt-rl land                                 usully of 1  to 17 year  of age; cr-epondenecure-r  oer-oly
otly.                                                                                       e-olded.
bP4pl.tpq Ag2 tChtr   oroc)-lild-e   0-li year),  -ortig-ag                                   Vocaticol  orlset(perceot of  -voodsr) - Voostioal lostituti-c   eld
(7130164y-t,tdretire    i              -er  sodovr  napeovtag- of mid-year                     teohoical,  odustrial, o r other progrem   ouch operte  iodepeoentlyort
pouaio l970. 1970, sod 1977 data.                                                       deyn -teet  of  -eond_ry  iaeloto
PooninGoth. Rat  peroen) -total - Actualgrowh rates of totn1 mid-                       Popii-te-h-rr tdc   P-   aY. sd, eodary   . Tta1lstodeoto  -er11d iv
year  opultiov   fcr  950-C, 170-7, and 1910 77.                                     primay and  -ecodr  Ie.-Ia dIvided by tooer  of teaher  bo the z.rr--
PoptoltnCtt G:      stet  'e teot   -uban -  ocAl1 growth rate    f urban                       opodi   leel.
populations  or 1950-cd,1970-70, an  1970-.                                       Adalt literar   ae(eco;-lieaeaot    Oetorn   n   ri a
Rate   orihousand  -A-.u.l lice births Per thocad of mid-                                 I p-rtetge of total adult popolatlt aged It year  nod rr
fear pop.iatiot             9,-ad 1977 data.
Crude Death Rtat   per thoonand) - A.-sa  Omatha per thousad  i mid-yea                   TiESUOPTIOM
pouaio;170   9,ad1-977 dat.                                                       Pasenge  Core (per thcanad pptlatiooC  - Passeoger tor   cm.priae  utor or
Irosa Peorodootit   O97t  -Ire-.     cate   of da.hbteren. ota  cill hea                      cetlo  IrsI tia  right person; ecld.n ambl              .ce,  .ea .e and  ilitnoy
in-rtomlrpr-oo-i- period if  h od"cPreoc Pra         .. prot  age-                  vehicle..
opetific  fertility rates;  -ooaly fiv-yea  uerages endiog to 1960,                       tadloRcevr.(ertooad p,c±tion) - All type  of receivr  for 17  radio
i970  sod 1975.                                                                             "raoat  t   oorl  uli   e  thouan   of PpopInto;  rldva ulivoe
Family 'looing -A-optorc, cccA-.  'th-uradaC  -    oA-I ota- of                                recivrs  i, coutries sod it Year  obe  regitrati   of radio cot  00  Io
occeptoro of birth-cotro  de-i-e  uder ...pices of caticoal  family                         effect; data for recent years coy  ct be  -op-loble clov   -.t v-coirte
P"Itor   proam                                                                              abolished licenig.
Pomily Pnoc - doer   vervet of  -oied  Ptr) - Per.etge of maried                            TV R-ovlvrs (cry thoutnt  ouplati-o    - TV reciver  for  or-do-t tc geie-l
coe   f child-teain lge (1-4o Y.ao  ob        bcirth-v-ttri devices                     public per th-u-n  popcIntit; eclodr- oni-vensed  TV rev              .. elr     -ootr-r
too   mriedoe  ics           g  grop,                                                   and it year  abet rgittrtivn  of TI' orts on  i ffect.
FOOD An NUTRITILY                                                                                                                   p-   dib.1 p-miaerCiiua-toCcr hosndpouitio)- boati  oergrcivooto
I.d7 f15 5170112                                                                                of itailyO~t,~dI697-1X    -L1-  generlpittrest edi p per', dete aprldia    olvto
toecoffod  roovtc  oyCnlt  (by-7-0    -ioeofprcpindevoted primaily to  eodn   geea-ee. I  ovnid-rd to be  daily'
covual poductio   of all  ood oceitiv.  Poototorovese   o                         if it  pRpnr. oc leant four times o-v.-
Tee  so,)onclndryar             hca       -aits ~ocu  prar   od                         Cioema Aoo-i Atte-d-o  cer Cac- ae  ber - nd oc the  -cber of tivie-
(.. ognro-  iv-t-d of soga)oibredbl                       ..d ctttio btativots          told   ucgteya,iocignmcot   odteiot                                  ssdtt
e..vffe  sod ten ar 1ecided).  Aggregnte predotico of each ocutry                       ocid.d-gt~y
Pe  aiaopvlIfoiois(e te   of veouren-ts; - Compted from                         LABOR FORCE
enegy equivalent of -et food supplies ovilable In country per capOtt                    Total Labor For-  ~ttboostdt  - EOv.ccaivaLly active ver -ce         -ov.co   errd
per day.   vAlnile.  co pplie- coprise domestic production, imports I.oo                  forte  sod uneployed lot coolodig tosio-, otodents, etc. lvficit--
Moprto, und olsohges in otoot.  Oct coRplies ettod   slnl feed, croO,                     iv vaIus -otrio  ar  t-t oceprble.
qatities oed cvfood proooiog, tod losoe  ic distribotico. Require-                         4sernt -fmleabrotenprvvgofvalaoroc.
aet  ueeetimae  by FObI tasdot plbyoiol.ioccIl  -eds for .o.,-Icptr~jvet    Lbor frte  ic f-rd, for-ty, looti    end
sotLouty sd beatV cottidring  ..ovirotmetl teapertor, body -eighta,                       flohiog Ic pere..tage of total Labor forte.
age and  -v  ditriboti-oo   of population, sod c1.ioig It pe-tet for                   1eduatgiy (peovt) - oner forc   - mining, ontr-cclor, entfactuie   sod
osute so totneholo level,                                                                 elcrcty, eater sod gao o  percetage of total laborfote
Per -pitn cpply of Rrteco  '--  per day) - P'rcteic  -ot-t of per                         Participtaio  .tat  (pr-et) -total, male, sod fe-1  - Prtcoip.tiot or
.sPitace.t opply of food per day  let coppip  f food is oefioed as                        ectoity rates ar  c-mtd us total, mae,od f-a   itlbor fort  -s per-
sbo.-  Reqoireneots ftr all ootri.o  -atatliohed bp USDA proide for a                     ceciges of total, asic sod femal  poa.iaLtiot of nil  gos repectively,
micini  ai1cso-   of 60 gram   of total protein per day and it gram   of                  1960. 1977, and 1975 data.  Thes  ar  li, partocipatio   t.ris  reflecting
animal and pulse protei, of obich 10 gr-o  ohoald be animal protit.                         -c-I atrutore of the population, and long time treod,  A fes estimat-n
Thes  standards  r oe  than te- of 75grmso  total protein  and                            are fro      tionl  oroa
23 gram   of sl.  prtel  as notrrge for the strd, proposed by fAt                       EcnoicPOsOd"cy Santo  -  Rntic  f  popoti- under it and 65 sod ovr t.
it to tTir .Wrld PodSv ,the labor fore  On agge rop cf 1q61 peara.
Pe-cpita cp    i  coppId, from   na  sod roa-  - Protein  supply of fond              nCO        DSRV C
Thl   ae   -)lrniyit   Rvtrond       cna   tssprtosn                                      P-retag  cf  Prvteicm  (both in cah sod bind) - Raceired by richest
icaegoP   iyar,t  cIde   it this soc grop; for mst devl-                              5  ecn,rcbs   tpret, pooveet P   etc,adpoet1   eco
otin  cotrire  data dorived fro  life  toilet                                               of households.
dEALTo                                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
life  oettc          ccBirth (year) - hocrge  omeof y-r  of life                            Eotlated Aslt  phverty Iboon  Lavel (U$ per capits ~ -  ra  and rural-
reeaicing   i -bith190197sd177dta                                                           Absolute poverty ltme leve Is thatI-on  lvlbeo                        h a oioiea.
loat s rtalit  RaeAe tosn) - IAra  d-tho of ofata  under ..e                         otritionally Ide-Ite dIet pl   ene....tial coo-fund roquti-.ts  i5 oct
yea  o  ae pr bosad lcetiti.                                                        afodale
coes  t  Ofeenervecet  f ov"aIo)-ttlubnsorua -                                     ttmneOlaieovryIomlve.ttoecpt)-ubnadrrl-
HotrofpoL   'oa,o-     o   o  nvlCsltrusdbeacest                                   Rrlrlaiepvet-ooslcbi0cetbr    favrg    ercpt
oafena.t-r-pyl   C olue d                  retdsrae sescr untreted bot                      p-orso1 income of the counry. trbnn leve  is do-l-d from  the rura  Ir-e
utoimvtd otterocon   bthi Iron protected hbrbov,  pind ec   o.atet for higher cotoflmn inubnaes
sod c-nttryesilo) so pe--etages  f their repective populations. Is                        Estimated Ppltion Se.n Absolute Povetylboo   Level (werovettl.-guba  and
ano naraspbli  fountol  cv stadpcat loted not mor  tiat                            rua       otn   f population  turba  and rurl)  ho r.               bou pe"
aces  o    accos.   n  aalara  rasnbleacos 1sad  Imply
clot the  osaf  or mmtrv  of the hoo-etld do not have to spend                                                                       E-ionet  sod Sbuial Data   os
dlpo toaepnrt of the day Ic fetching the fnllys  cater needs                                                          Economic Aoa.le  and Prtjeti..s iepartmet
Aagmat 1979



- 25  -P.g*4    of 5
eco011Ic DEVYnoSp9w Diu 81125
Amnl average             1979
Actual                     got.              Proced                         arovtb rat.  (I)          share
1972    1975    1976    1977    1978        1979       1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-40  1980-85    of CDP
National Accouats (U5d  . 
of U8$ at 1975 erices and
exchatne ratee)
GDP                            12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29.392               6.5       6.1       6.6      100.0
Terms of trade adjustmnt           168       0    -456    -613       -70        -70      -387       -685       -262        -         -                     -
CD!                            13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20.910    22,129    29,129               6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - conitant prices       3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489         5,865    6,068       6,484      8,271        8.8       5.2      6.4        29.2
Exportm - constant prices       3.020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592         4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022        7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for tars
of trade           3,189   3,000   3.327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464       4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2      11.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133       768   1,129      1,510    1.604       1,586        511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                    10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861    15,646   16,393    17,262    21,421               5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investmnt (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963         5,822    6,176      6,552      8,524        12.2       1.8       6.6       29.0
National savings                3.016   3,983   4.098   4.435   4,743         4.718    4.948       5,360      8.410        7.9       2.1     11.2         23.5
Dometic savings                 2.876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833         4,537    4,807       5,227      7,328        9.0     -0.3        8.8       22.6
Sector Output (millions of
-5U at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                     3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385         5,417    5,688       5.972      7,259        5.1       2.7      5.0        27.0
Industry /a                     4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,690         7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061         8.6      6.2       8.0        35.1
Servicee                        4,849   5.920   6,089   6,440   6,853         7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0       8.5      6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 - 100)
Export price index               47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2         117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3       13.1      11.4       7.9
Import price index               44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5         119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4       15.1      13.2      6.8         -
Terms of trade index            105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9          98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6       1.0        -
Selected Indicators
ICOR jt                           4.5      3.4      3.4     3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Import elasticlty                0.93    0.59    1.24    1.22    2.32          1.13      1.12       1.12      2.08
Average savings rate             19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3          23.1      22.9       23.4       26.8
Imports/GDP                      25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0          29.2      28.5       28.7      28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5            29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                  0.9      7.1      6.7     4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5        7.0        1.7
Public Finance                     1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)             -   (Z of CDP in current prices) -                 Labor Force in 1978 Ic            lIflions     ()
Current revenue                  12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                 Agriculture                          7.4     44.4
Tax revenue                       9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  tudustry                            2.7     16.2
Current expenditure              13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                 Services                             5.6     33.0
Current surplus                   0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6     2.7              Unemployed                           1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures              1.9      3.0      3.5     3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force             16.8    100.0
/a  Includes sining. manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The  C08. is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c etisate based on second qurter, 1978.
Fest Asia   d Pacific  Ueion
November 1979



-26 -                                                  ARI
8A1A1Cl OF PATOWTO  A"1  OXErr AL ASSISTANCE1
(US$ tOllion)
AotgeI                              Oct.              Prol.cted
1972       1975        1976        1977      1970       1979      1980       1981        1985
SoeMry of Beloaoe of Peboents
teport. (08FS)                                1.432       3.000       3,330      4,021      4.555    5.230       6.040     7.030      14.475
OsPoeg. (0875)                                1.484       4,116      4,383       4.788      3,735     6,960      80.60     9,245      15.820
11.0-roc   Watt0.                               -52      -1,116     -1,053        -767   -1,180    -1.730    -2,020    -2.215         -1,345
Nat factor --I.. fe-1,00 .                     -125        -126        -323       -320       -406      -190       -280      -365        -655
t,o.re.t Is.:)                    ~~~~~-93    -65        -105       -240       -261      -515       -405      -475        -723
Dir et  I- let _t ',0..   _et)                -32         -61       -138         -00       -145       125        105        110         70
"Iet..o   - goedo & --rvc.,                    -177    -1,242       -1,376      -1,087    .1.586   ..1,920   -2.300   -2.580          -2,000
Sreeef... (set)                                  188        318         269         260       312        340       370        400        600
C.rre.t A .... t Bel5.                         11        -924     -1.107        -827   -1.274    -1.580   -1.930    -2.180          -1.400
Dbr..t 1--t-Oc  (.at)                           -22        125         144         216       163        130       150        170         250
Pebilo KIIT 1-.  dl.bo..r--te                    233        349         869        903      1.035     1.175      1,549     1.782       2,224
Rep*ys C.t                                    -78        -118       -145        -163       -419      -465       -53L      -507      -1.'30
set dlsboree..st*                             157         231         704        740        016       710      1,018     1.275       1,094
Other M61. It.c  dl.bor-ecats                    137        331         538         326       740        349       685        778      1.156
lt:pOyScta                                   -154        -205       -202        -381       -522      -295      -333       -363        -870
8ct di.boo..--t.                              -17         126         536        -55        210        54        352       415         286
Total M1T 10.0 dlsb.receet.                      372        480       1,407      1.229      1,775     1.524    2,234       2.560       3,380
le.7.eote.                                   -232        -323       -369        -544      -941       -760      -864       -870     -2,000
Net disb.r--t.et                              140         357      1.040         685        834       764    1.370       1,690       1,380
Nct  troleoe IMF Lb                                7        110         214          79        24         98         -          -           -
Short-t.r. copit.1 (ocr)                          56        102         -96        312        146        100       110        120        170
C.$it.I tra-ti..to., .e.1..i                    -99         292         -33       -300         53        -32          -         -           -
Ch.oge it ocr re    (ve    - - Ioc r.....)       -94        321         160       -164         54        500       300        200       -400
ltot-retoei..I roger,.. (..d-y..rl  L           551       1.358      1,640       1.505      1,903     1.383      1.083        883      2,153
Gr.et. sod L,.- C.-it.ot.
Offlefl.i Srot.t                                 5.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total poblilc I....                           422.0       769.4    1,577.4    1,372.7    2,417.0
0082R                                        29.5      114.0       226.0       317.5      532.0
ID"                                          10.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        18.0
O.-e  -1ti0.r*1e                             43.2       106.0       64.2       207.3       199.2
G_*er   t.ct                                275.5       182.3      391.6       122.3       370.4
of  hiloh OPE                               0.0        13.2        5.9         0.0         0.0
SePppiere         2. .0                                  52.5       32.0       194.2        76.7
- TOoctall loetl(4tloee                       61.7      314.6       476.4       341.7    2,006.5
Ued.                                          0.0         00       367.2       129.5       219.2
Otherd01.7 1....                              130.0       283.:0      603.6      134.8       914.0
Orget eLmcor of romft.e.te                     28.0        16.4         8.8        14.7       16.8
A-erage fst.reet (25                             5-.8       7.4         8.3         7.9,       7.4
A-eree  -t.rity (yeere)                         17.0       16.7        13.1        15.3       15.9
Kedl.a 4 t4ne-Tee Debt (dleb-reed  -I,)l
Total debt oset.tadleg (cod of
partod)                                   1.8166.0   2,965.0    4,383.0    5,554.0    6,839.0
tsel1.Sie  eWd0gbcocd             ,         2,638.0   4.520.0   6,817.0    8,155.0  10,856.0
-Poblio debt servItce                         -1491.6     -215.3 --239.2~    -44) 4          -468.1
of elbci.  lot.r...t                        -51.6      -73.0       -97.9    -213.2    -187.1
Other 161. debt c-erv.                       -167.6    -232.7    -203.5         -337.1      -441.9
T.t.1 debt cer-l..                           -317.2    -458.0    -522.7         -799.0    -910.0
Debt Bord..
D.bt --le. rati.                                                                                Ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sot.0004 lg
Debt cerolce retlo                  0~~~2.1    14.0        13.7        18.0       20.0                          Dercmb.r 31. 1978
Debt cerlc. ratio   d22.7                                  15.6        16.4        19.5       20.6                            Aeount  P.-rett
Debt eer,,Lo-l0P                                 3.8        3.0         2.9         3.7        4.0    Et .e.. 1 Debt         (111  alt)
Poblic debt e.vc/oeser(dlebora.d so1y)
r- - -e                                      17.0         5.1        9.9        12.0        20.1      10R0                    546     13.0
T.~~~~~~~~~                                                                     31-k~~~~~~~~~~~00   Grop  576   13.8
leterectOs totelDOD/tota   00             .1        5.4         4.1        6,4         4.0       ovr_- eot.           1,039     24.8
7,t.1 debt                   DODtette    0      17.7       16.9        10.5        13.8       13.3       Suppller-              271      6.3
Deo".ddmo   atitlo                                                                                           1oetitOt1Ooa       1.254     09.9
Gro"                                                                        ~~~~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Betod  771  18.4
get trcfr1p .(08F0)                             12.7        7.7         6.1         3.4        5.4        561. debt           6.180    100.0
Net trao.ftr/Oreec di.bur--t.et                41.9        36.2        16.2        18.9       23.2      Other 661T debt       2,651     63.3
Up                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other 50.7 debt
ID&D dlsb./gm.s                                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dimbor.ed)  3,293  78.6
1080  lcb.froeetot.1 di.b.                  4.7        9.8         5.5         7.4        8.3      Tot.1 publio
0.ek Iro5p dleb./gro.-  tot.1 dleb.             4.8        10.7         6.2         7.         8.:3        debt lIed.
188t0 DO2/t.1. IDOD                              7.         8.0         7.2         7.3        80          -sdi b.rod)        7.563    100.6
Bank G-pw 00D/total DOD                          7.8        8.6         7.0         7.0        8.4      Tot.1 MfLT debt
1880 debt --rl../tot.1 debt ee--1e.             4.4         5.5         6.6        5.6         6.9         (10-1. 00-
3eek Group debt .-rv/t.t.1 debt. eerv.    4.4               3.6         6.7         5.6        7.0         dOe.orced)        10,856    259.2
LA  teett.o-.  of PSllp-o  c.pl.ycd ebroed ore ioloded  for 1970-78 is  Trsf.e sd 1979-85 i0  Stiret  Osveeteet I-abo.'.
/b  For projectioo  purpo.ec 'lOt drevl.ge 0o 087" cod 'C.pItalteeet1..001                          r0 ......ed to cOnel 000 each othe.,
OroG-   r- -re   of the C.stro1 0.06  1"I.t.tral ...1 rI         e    "  I1S.
Id  Isciodee ne  direct lovect-et jocos.
toot A.1. 00d Paclfjc lk.gl.
N-veeb.r 1979



- 27 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of December 31, 1979
Loan or
Credit                                                                       Amounts  ($ million)
Number    FY       Borrower                Purpose                         Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                            271.0   19.5
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage            14.3                1.4
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                22.0                0.9
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education II                                 12.7        0.3
939-PH   1973           "                 Ports                             6.1                0.1
950-PH   1973                             Second Highways                  68.0                1.7
984-PH   1974           "                 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.7
998-PH   1974           "                 DFC-DBP I                        50.0                4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0                3.9
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Population                       25.0               12.9
1048-PH   1974           "                 Shipping                         20.0               10.1
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  DFC                                  30.0                5.4
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.0                6.9
1102-PH   1975           "                 Rural Development                25.0               13.7
1120-PH   1975           "                 Small & Medium Industries        30.0                1.3
1154-PH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                 42.0               21.4
1190-PH   1976                             DFC-DPB II                       75.0               11.5
1224-T-PH 1976           "                 Education III                    25.0               14.5
1225-PH   1976                             Livestock II                     20.5                7.2
1227-PH   1976           "                 Chico Irrigation                 50.0               37.7
1272-T-PH 1976           "                 Manila Urban                     10.0                6.3
1282-PH   1976           "                 Manila Urban                     22.0               14.0
1269-PH   1976                             Second Grain Processing          11.5               10.1
1270-PH   1976           "                 Second Fisheries                 12.0                6.1
1353-PH   1977           "                 Third Highways                   95.0               74.6
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                15.0                9.7
1374-PH   1977                             Fourth Education                 25.0               16.8
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.5               22.6
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  40.8
1415-PH   1977           "                 Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                  18.2
1421-PH   1977           "                 2nd Rural Dev. Land Stlmt.       15.0               13.6
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0               56.5
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming          8.0                7.9
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   DFC (PDCP)                           30.0               25.0
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  55.4
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.7
S.8-PH   1978           "                 Education                         2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.0               48.1
1555-PH   1978 Philip- National Bank   DFC-PISO                             15.0                5.4
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat II                        150.0              103.7
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III        80.0               62.6
1615-PH   1978                             Manila Water Supply II           88.0               87.9
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension               35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979           "                 Magat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.9
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                  15.8
1647-PH   1979           "                 Second Urban Development         32.0               30.5
1661-PH   1979                             Highways IV                     100.0               99.8
1710-PH   1979                             Water Supply II                  16.0               16.0
920-PH   1979           "                 Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH   1979           "                 Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH   1979                             Population II                            40.0       40.0
Total                                                                1.977.9  122.2   1,195.2
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            152.2
Total now outstanding                                                1,825.7  122.2
Amount sold                                               24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        15.2            9.1     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              1,816.6  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                  1j087.5   90.0   1,177.5



- 28 -                  ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1979
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5       -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1      8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7      2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2      2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1      5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                        -        0.1      0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              33.0    12.1    45.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             44.1      4.6    48.7
Undisbursed                                     7.6     1.1      8.7



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
The original project concept of constructing integrated large
capacity rice mills was amended in 1972 and the emphasis shifted to rehabili-
tation of existing rice milling facilities. A further amendment in 1974
included corn in addition to rice, authorized local gorernments and the
National Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and streamlined
procurement procedures. The project is now progressing satisfactorily and
most mills are working to near capacity. Arrears are still a cause for
concern, and DBP has been asked to step up its supervision and technical and
management assistance to help deal with this problem. Bank funds have been
fully committed; however, because of the long construction period for some
of the larger subprojects, the Closing Date has been postponed to September
30, 1980.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels has been completed. Diversion from one
of the two dams started in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule.
There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the service area
improvement works and, following award, some additional delays were
experienced due to an extended period for irrigation water delivery in 1977.
These setbacks have caused a two-year delay in project completion which is
now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 M4illion Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 60% of project
works completed against the appraisal target of 75%. Due to initial delays
and recent shortages of fuel and cement, the project is likely to be com-
pleted in June 1981. The total project area is likely to be reduced by
about 3,500 ha due to flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Project cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $36.5
million, with the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced
from 15% at appraisal to about 12%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development: $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
As of March 1979, physical implementation of the irrigation and
drainage components was about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays
in contract award and recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies,
construction has slowed down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation
system contract has been awarded, progress is expected to improve. The
road subproject is about 66% complete. Disbursements are slow, with only
25% of the loan amount allocated for road works so far disbursed. Physical
progress has been slow, and shortages in fuel and cement have prevented any
improvement in the construction rate.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management
training is continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for
improvements to the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in
the completion of the project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Peed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge. As
of June 30, 1979, principal and interest arrears under this project had
reached about 12.7% of the portfolio. The Bank has assisted DBP with the
development of an intensive action-oriented collection program which will be
further reinforced under the proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit
Project. Thanks to government approval of increased salary scales, DBP has
significantly improved its staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's
organizational structure have been instituted and other organizational
developments are under consideration.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19. 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Since the contracts were awarded,
however, progress has improved and work is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the invest-
ment climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to
the smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand
for subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by
prospective applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has,



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
in consultation with DBP, developed a list of detailed recommendations on
actions to be taken.  In the meantime, DBP has forwarded to the Bank
various suggestions concerning the broadening of the project to promote
better and faster utilization of the funds. The proposals are curently
being examined.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Prolect; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34% as of August 1979. Force account work is proceeding satis-
factorily. Nine of the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has
taken over eight of them for completion by force account. With the equipment
now on hand, NIA is capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Investments under the project are generally performing well,
although the commitment rate is slow and will decline even further with the
recent termination of large tractor financing. To help accelerate commit-
ments, recommendations made by the Central Bank, supported by the Bank, are
being implemented, including:  the expansion of lending categories to include
additional agricultural investments; assignment of authority to the Central
Bank to evaluate and finance agricultural projects not specifically identified
in the Rules and Regulations; the addition of private development banks to the
eligible financial intermediaries; expansion of training provisions to include
funds for domestic and foreign training of Central Bank staff; more flexible
reporting procedures; improved collection procedures; delegation of responsi-
bility for lending for power tillers to the rural banks; and revised methods
for calculating equity contributions. Repayment performance continues to be
unsatisfactory; however, causes are of a long-term sectoral nature and will be
addressed in that context. Vehicles for Central Bank field staff have been
procured, and contracts awarded for the construction of the Agricultural
Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center and for the Farm Mechanization Study.
Completion of the project is now expected to be delayed by about 18 months.



- 33-                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31- 1981
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 19813
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP has recently eased the collateral terms and
application procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government
funds has delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the
Abra pine plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been
acquired. A gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although
funding could continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at
a moderate rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15. 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Design of about 70 km
of village roads has been completed, and the balance is expected to be
completed by April 1980. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations.
Diversion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 will
be ready for diversion at the end of March 1980. Excavation on the main
contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the
batching plant and in the trial embankment.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will be applied first in four pilot areas which have
already been designated, to be followed by a further 12 areas by April 1980.
MOA Regional Directors have not yet been appointed; however, the names of
proposed candidates are with the President of the Philippines and a decision
is expected in early 1980. Additional staff appointments are being made but
vehicle purchases are delayed because of the current concern at the highest
level with the energy crisis. All purchases of gasoline-consuming equipment
and vehicles (except for motorcycles) are at present held in abeyance.
However, it is anticipated that the vehicles will be purchased within the
next 2 to 3 months. Funds for this purpose have been allocated in the 1980
budget and vehicle suppliers have been pre-qualified.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The design for the Baligatan diversion dam and main canals has
been completed, and NIA expects to start construction work soon. Overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 35-                         ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures. The trend in imple-
mentation is improving, although progress will be slower than expected in the
foreseeable future.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Proiect; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been largely overcome. Further major
problems are not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by
March 1980, except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for
completion around August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years,



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
with a new Closing Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated
at about '189 million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal
astimate, due primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have
been experienced throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed and a further 25%
committed. Loan applications covering the balance of uncommitted funds
are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 27% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors.  Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvement of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of
them before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road
maintenance and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress.
All 28 workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of
them, awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisers to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisers to MPH will complete their work by M4arch 1980.
Overall project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates,
but project completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24
months later than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late
start of some critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution
of some of the road construction contracts.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Pro-ject; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Prequalification of contractors for the road construction works is
underway, utilizing new procedures agreed during loan negotiations.
Proposals for the technical assistance to MPH and MLGCD have been received
from the short-listed consulting firms and evaluation is in process. A
short-list of prospective consulting firms for the design and construction
supervision of workshops is being prepared. Preparatory work for the
continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs begun
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) is scheduled to begin within
three months. Selection of technical assistance and consultants to MPWTC
for the continuation of the transport planning advisory services, begun
under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in process. Land acqui-
sition for road construction and workshops is under way. Prequalification
for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224      Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to
manage book development, production, and distribution for public elementary
and secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with only minimal (four month) delays, and 15 million
textbooks have been produced and distributed. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 66% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about nine months behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures are being taken by the Govern-
ment. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that the
project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates, but disbursements are about
41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the implementation delays.



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is function-
ing smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs
and printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio
Assisted Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education
for Teachers (CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas
on schedule (Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET will most likely begin
another experimental utilization in Mindanao in early 1980. In order to
provide information on the desirability of nationwide project implementa-
tion, the pilot project includes a substantial evaluation component which is
proceeding smoothly.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
May 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on May 1, 1980.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T   M4anila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure
and 1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services com-
ponent are complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have been
designed and contracts tendered with Package I amended and Package II await-
ing Presidential approval. The project is generally progressing satisfac-
torily with many initial difficulties overcome and lessons learned which
should hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Well drilling activities are in progress in five Water Districts,
and bids are being evaluated for distribution networks, pumping stations and
reservoirs. The scope of subprojects was revised by LWUA and approved by



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
communities in public hearings. Difficulties in contracting local firms for
drilling have resulted in delays in the preparation of feasibility studies
in remote areas. LWUA has been requested to present a plan for assistance
to Water Districts in institution-building, and proposing solutions to the
scarcity of local well drilling contractors, including the possibility of
international bidding.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met. A
tariff increase of 60% was implemented in October, 1978, and MWSS met the 2%
rate of return required for 1979. However, it apepars that they will not be
able to meet the 5% rate of return covenanted for 1980 since the
implementation of an additional tariff increase of 25 centavos, scheduled
for October 1979, has been postponed (because of the overall impact of
inflationary pressures resulting from recent oil price increases) and the
completion of the treatment plant is behind schedule.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired.  A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power: $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3. 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power: $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15. 1974;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consul-
tants' services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than
two years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at
$114.1 million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate
($92 million). The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is
$5.2 million (9%). The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion
of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project: $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement has been slow, with the result that disbursements have
been behind schedule. Although the Bank waived the 8% rate of return
requirement for 1978, NPC achieved a rate of return of 7% and expected to
achieve 8% in 1979 after taking over plant previously owned and operated by
Meralco. It is unlikely that NPC achieved an 8% rate of return in 1979
since costs, especially of fuel, were higher than forecast. Plans for
establishing a training center, which was to be financed by the Bank, have
been deferred.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978: Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
tender document preparation and delays in procurement. However, following
reorganization of NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank
project materials were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late
1979 following receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are
expected before June 1980. NEA's financial performance and position in 1977
and 1978 was good, and steps are being taken by NEA to strengthen its
monitoring of the financial performance of the cooperatives, especially
their compliance with the Government's financial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been used by
DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development: $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975: Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The original DBP ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan
have been fully disbursed. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Disbursements on this component have been slow and,
therefore, $1.7 million out of the original allocation of $2.3 million has
been reallocated to DBP, who can utilize this amount quickly. The Small
Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry
has been implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.



-42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
In February, 1977, the Executive Directors approved a proposal to
allocate $25 million of the funds from this loan for small and medium
industries, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed
on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower
than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a
whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since been fully committed
by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23,1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of January 31, 1980 commitments
under the loan amounted to $12.6 million. The project progress is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of January 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.2 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572     Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Commitments for subprojects under the large industry component
amounted to $45.8 million as of January 31, 1980. In addition, as of the
same date the small and medium industry component had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 43 -                          ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29. 1979: Date of Effectiveness:
November 9. 1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose
$24.5 million was provided under the loan. Loan utilization is expected to
begin soon. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population: $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30. 1980
As of October 1979, 186 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 28 were under construction and 5 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 90% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart
funds. While this problem was partially solved by internal transfer and
reallocation of funds it is likely that there will be a six-to twelve-
month delay in project completion.  Following the disbanding on December 31,
1979, of the administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was
appointed for both this and the second project.  This action is expected to
speed up significantly the completion of this first project. In January
1979 the project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and
equipment for service delivery; training; information, education and
communication campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second
population project. The amended total project cost is $40 million. The
total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly
to price increases not materializing as forecast. The management situation
in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional
analysis of the Ministry of Health is under way. The recommendations of
this study, if implemented, should considerably strengthen the health care
delivery system.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project: $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 . 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
tation started on January 1, 1980 when funds were made available from MOH and
POPCOM. Preparatory arrangements for training components of the project are
proceeding satisfactorily, and information, education and communications
activities are being developed successfully at POPCOM and MOH. The 1980
work plan has been reviewed and found satisfactory. Generally, overall
progress is satisfactory.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 20 months
(b) The agency which prepared the project: National Irrigation
Administration
(c) First presentation to the Bank, and first
Bank mission to consider the project: August 1978 and May 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1979
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed that:
(a)  NIA would prepare terms of reference and an outline of an operation
and maintenance study to be financed under the project, and, after
review by the Bank, carry out the study with the assistance of
consultants (para. 45);
(b) NIA and MOH would enter into an agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
before December 31, 1980, for the implementation of the malaria
control component (para. 46).
(c) NIA would gradually increase irrigation fees over a period of five
years from completion of construction to a level equivalent to
about 3.5 cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans
in the dry season (para. 61);
(d) NIA would take all necessary action to ensure full and prompt col-
lection of irrigation fees, and consult with the Bank annually on
the adequacy of the charges and the collection thereof (para. 62);



IBRD 14589
NOVEMBER 1979
120- 20-                                           120940'                                             121900'                                             121-20'
- -   L2ab  Gierc                                                                     * Ver;,a em
Abra de  Nlog 
t   o-~~~pialusn                             /~/ K              ~4 '                                9                    8 tACO-BUC    /.5                sL A, p
11 '>r ~ X ~ < 0 << 4Z.,, ,ZlNDANAN
P3'20' | / q qczbc,trn, / X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dular$7 
K                    M~~~~~~IAM8VRAO C/P
Sontc i Cruz                                                                                           (Leuteb.r.C_ 
MAMBUArCh,n  \,                              \                                      0                                        0 _     ,    I            30
C A  0 t7 0                                                                                                                                         Rat   PFomalayan
5399~~~~
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Upper Bcnsor/ 
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ or
S    tb.Lyan                                                                                       CoL`an "C I? I '  o  (
12'40'                          PHILIPPINES
MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROECT                                                                                ¢
Mindoro Systems                                                                                                               ' ,
A     Division Offices                                           San Magoe-
*     Field Offices                                     -\  G t.d
-     Diversion Dams                                                 MO
Main Canals
2       Irrigation Araos
Loterol Corals
--      Nationol Highway Upgrading
EXISTINGCoaln 
Notional HKglwoyso
Provincial Roads
---    Daoms and Rivers
Irrigot,or Areas
Area Subject To Flooding                                                                     !2290
-    Provincial Boundary
0            to          20              30 KAr.s
.o oo n, SoO eno. 505    f9* saOnviavJ OwS  VOanaSv                                                               A/OA 
.voona.oa. hbv    so Mii.
. 120-20-                                           120'40'                                            127i007                                              / 21020






IBRD 14590
118llB 30'          IDECEMBER 1979
El Nilt,  2     
0lN$0~ ;YtMAiNAILI
7IVERSIOIV DAM
S.uth ChnOa Sea                               TB  gp  i t
"O A   A,    A,                                                                               Togpoit
/ 014/ .'.SE FIEL                                                                         Ne\2  
Arnacl  a.       Abrlas                                    ,>AALAY' . X                \1i).                                   _       
OFF IOP/CE                        -920'              - 
W9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   (9---   '-1.                                                                       0/                   .            X  
____ ~          ~          92 --  e                  s      ,            .       
T-AR/TIEN MAL,A TGAD                                                                           njno
Stesket Poirn                    I      ~~~~DIVERSION D
118S25''
Th's sap has been prepared by the World Bank's staff exclusively far the convence .-..
of/the readers of/the report to which it is attavbad The deossmiatioss vsed end the   l                        
houndarien shown on t0i5somap do nor imply. oa the parr of/the WorQd Bash and its|                   I    .          /  
affiliates, a-yludg-ent on the legal stats af any terrtory or any as   went or
-cceptas-e f s-ch bocndanes.
BATANG- BATA-                                                                                                                             I
(4, 00>3 ha),X                              %                                  
A TIIAIW<G                             n)   On  b                                        'o,cn(Narra)
WVR ISON DAM
-s9s'15                                                           .        Sk'                                                            PHILIPPINES                                         o,.
MEDIUM  SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Palawan Systems
PROPOSED MAJN CANALS
- g     X XPROPOSED LATERAL CANALS
PROPOSED DIVERSION DAMS
*     EXIST/NG DIVERSION D.NMS
PSOPOSED IRRIGATION AREAS
,   0Y   $-   EXISTING RO,DS
SalU   Sea                                                       R'VERS
MILES
V      t      2      3      r      q
KI/LOMETERS
I tt°23'                                                                                          r t



