Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17869 LA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.7 MILLION (US$27.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
August 31, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
Southeast Asia and Mongolia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: February 1, 1998)
Currency Unit    =      Kip Nationale (KN)
Kip 1     =       US$0.00047
US$1              Kip 2,100
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         =     Country Assistance Strategy
CCL               Comite' de Cooperation avec le Laos
CIU         =     Component Implementation Unit
DCTPC             (Provincial) Department of Communication,
Transport, Post and Construction
DOF               (Provincial) Department of Finance
DPC         =     (Provincial) Department of Planning and Cooperation
LWU         =     Lao Women's Union
MCTPC             Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post
and Construction
MOF         =     Ministry of Finance
Namsaat    =      Institute of Clean Water (under Ministry of Public Health)
NPL         =     Nampapa Lao (Water Supply Enterprise of Lao)
PDR               Peoples Democratic Republic
RCMS        =     Road Construction and Maintenance Specialist
RWSS              Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (component)
SOE         =     Statement of Expenditures
SPC         =     State Planning Committee
SSGNF             Sector Strategy and Guideline National Framework
TWSCS             Township Water Supply Construction Specialist
UNDP        =     United Nation Development Program
WHO         =     World Health Organization
WTP         =     Water Treatment Plant
Vice President:                 Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Jeffrey Gutman
Task Team Leader:               Supee Teravaninthorn



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Provincial Infrastructure Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives .............................................................2
B. Strategic Context ............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal supported by the project .....2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................2
3. Sector issues addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................3
C. Project Description  Summary ...........................................................4
1. Project components .......................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ........................5
3. Benefits and target population .......................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............................................8
D. Project Rationale ...........................................................                                            10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................. 10
2. Related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.. I 1
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ....................................... 11
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .................................... 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................. 13
E. Summary Project Analyses ...........................................................                                     13
1. Economic ......................................................                                               13
2. Financial ......................................................                                              14
3. Technical ......................................................                                              14
4. Institutional ......................................................                                          14
5. Social ......................................................                                                 15
6. Environmental assessment ......................................................                               15
7. Participatory approach ......................................................                                 16
F. Sustainability  and  Risks ...........................................................                                   16
1. Sustainability ......................................................                                         16
2. Critical risks ......................................................                                         16
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................                         17



G. Main Loan Conditions                       ........................ 17
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..................                  17
2. Other ..................                                     17
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................              18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................             is
Annexes
Annex 1.          Project Design Summary
Annex 1.1      Provincial Profile of Oudomxay Province
Annex 1.2      Provincial Profile of Phongsaly Province
Annex 2.          Detailed Project Description
Annex 2.1       Outline Terms of Reference for Road Construction
and Maintenance Specialist
Annex 2.2       Outline Terms of Reference for Township Water Supply Construction
Specialist
Annex 3.          Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.          Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.          Financial Summary
Annex 6.          Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.       Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table B.1       Summary of Project Procurement Schedule
Table C.        Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.          Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.          Documents in Project File
Annex 9.          Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.         Country at a Glance
Map No. IBRD 29417



Lao People's Democratic Republic
Provincial Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific
Southeast Asia & Mongolia Country Departnent
Date: August31, 1998                                Task Team Leader: Supee Teravaninthom
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala       Sector Manager/Director: Jeffrey Gutman
Project ID: LA-PA-42237  Sector: Infrastructure     Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lending Instrument: IDA Specific Investment Loan    Program of Targeted
Intervention:                   [x] Yes  [] No
Project Financing Data                 [  Loan    [x] Credit   [3 Guarantee    [] Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm):   US$ 27.8 million equivalent / SDR 20.7 million
Proposed terms:                       [      Multicurrency    [] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   10            [      Standard Variable [] Fixed        [I    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      40
Commitment fee:        standard
Service charge:         0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                            Local            Foreign          Total
Government                                          1.20             1.50              2.60
IDA                                                 9.00            18.80             27.80
Beneficiary contribution                            0.65             0.00              0.65
Total       10.80            20.30             31.10
Borrower:               Lao People's Democratic Republic
Guarantor:              N/A
Responsible agencies:   The provinces of Phongsaly and Oudomxay
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999   2000    2001   2002  2003   2004   2005   2006
Annual                    0.5     2.9     5.9    6.9   5.3    3.7    1.5   1.1
Cumulative                 0.5      3.4     9.3   16.2  21.5   25.2   26.7   27.8
Project implementation period: 1998-2006
Expected effectiveness date: December 1998             Expected closing date: November 30, 2006



Project Appraisal Document              Page 2                 Title: Provindal Infrastructure Project
County: Lao PDR
A: Project Development Objective
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to strengthen the local institutional capacity,
and rehabilitate and upgrade critical basic infrastructure of its remote northern Provinces of Oudomxay
and Phongsaly, so as to reduce the poverty conditions and improve the standard of living and socio-
economic potential of the poor inhabitants of these provinces and gradually integrate them into the
Borrower's national economy (see Annex 1).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15284-LA   Date of latest CAS discussion: February 1996
The project is consistent with the principal elements of the Bank's CAS for Lao PDR, as
discussed by the Board in February 1996. The CAS guiding principle includes: (a) strengthening the
Government's capacity to plan and implement its development program through TA and an adjustment
operation; (b) undertaking economic and sector work that will provide the analytical underpinning to
operations along with intellectual leadership and policy advice in key sectors; and (c) expanding public
services to the poor while maintaining a strong framework for economic growth. On the lending
program, the CAS advocated more focus on rural infrastructure and development, since they will have the
most impact on reducing poverty.
The link between rural infrastructure and poverty is straightforward: People cannot benefit from
services and employment opportunities if they have limited access to roads. In addition, their health
problems cannot be resolved if they have no access to clean water and improved sanitation. Thus, the
Bank's strategy is to help the Government design a plan to develop rural infrastructure--one that ensures
that quality is achieved at the lowest cost. The project follows the Agriculture Sector Memorandum
(1995), Poverty Assessment (1996) and study on Priorities for Rural Infrastructure Development (1997).
It is also consistent with the country's resolution to invest in well-focused rural development projects and
draw maximum participation from local authorities and communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Main Sector Issues include: (a) the lack of responsiveness to the very basic need for provincial
and rural infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) the piecemeal investment packages that lack
coherence in their design; and (c) the poor quality and lack of proper supervision in their work execution.
The Government recognizes the need to urgently address the issue related to the lack of year-
round road access to certain rural areas and the absence of other basic infrastructure needed to stimulate
production and market integration along with broader development. The Lao Expenditure and
Consumption Survey (LECS) and Lao Social Indicator Survey (LSIS) of 1994-1995 found a strong
relationship between the availability of rural infrastructure and off-farn employment opportunities,
farmers' integration into the market economy and increased agricultural productivity. In turn, these
conditions are key to raising rural incomes and alleviating poverty: the surveys show a clear correlation
between the availability of rural infrastructure and per capita expenditures. Also, they document that the
rural population in the lowest two quintiles is less well served by roads, public transport, electricity,
markets and safe water than those in the top quintiles. Similarly, those in the lowest quintiles have less
access to support services, such as visits from extension officers. LECS/LSIS also demonstrates that rural
areas generally experience severe infrastructure constraints: More than 30% of all villages and 22% of



Project Appraisal Document               Page 3                  Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
the population are in areas that are even not accessible by four-wheel-drive vehicles, only 11% of the
population live in villages with electricity and only 7% are in villages with a permanent market.
The immediate problem is the rudimentary state of basic infrastructure and its negative effect on
agricultural productivity. However, given the country's underlying comparative advantage in agriculture
sector, there is great potential to improve productivity in rice production, so long as demand and supply
factors are appropriate. However, farmers would have no incentive to increase production beyond that
required for domestic consumption if the surplus cannot be marketed. Thus, basic infrastructure must be
installed to ensure easier and more cost effective market access as well as to improve the livelihood of the
rural population.
Government strategy. Since early 1994, the Government has committed itself to addressing
issues of rural development. It emphasized more investment in basic provincial infrastructure, especially
transport infrastructure that is crucial to successfully developing the isolated mountainous provinces that
cannot be reached for at least six months a year. Following the Fifth Plenum of the Party Central
Committee in March 1994, the Politburo issued a Resolution on Rural Development which presented the
policy for up to 2000. Its main strategy was to extend economic reforms to rural areas, particularly to
those inhabited by ethnic minorities. The investment plan involves integrated rural development with
more participation from local governments and communities; it would provide social and economic
infrastructure and support services in well-defined areas, to allow rural residents to move from
subsistence to commercialized production. It would also decentralize administrative power to local
governments.
3. Sector issuies addressed by the project and strategic choices
In order to address the main sector issues mentioned in Section B.2 above the project will:
(a) rehabilitate basic provincial and rural infrastructure-especially road access-which was identified as
one of the major bottlenecks hindering market integration and the expansion of commercial agriculture;
(b) improve the quality of the Government investment package that, until now, has lacked a coherent
design; (c) strengthen the supervision of construction; and (d) support the Government's decentralization
policy by strengthening local governments.
The strategy to achieve these aims includes: (a) focusing Bank intervention in geographically and
sectorally defined areas rather than spreading it all over the country; this way, the investment will have a
greater effect and supervision can be more concentrated; (b) gaining experience from a similar, ongoing
project, the Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project (Credit 2579-LA) in the north of the country,
where ethnic, social and physical conditions are similar to those in the project's two provinces; and (c)
speeding up development in the northern region and taking steps to participate in the Economic
Quadrangle Cooperation agreement that includes China, Thailand, Myanmar and the northern region of
Lao.
The choice of the two northern provinces was based on a preliminary analysis of road network
density, a revenue and capital investment plan, and income and poverty indicators disaggregated at the
provincial level. Originally, a short list of four provinces (excluding Luang Prabang) was submitted to
the Government, which ultimately decided to direct the Bank's investment to Phongsaly and Oudomxay
provinces. The analysis showed that the five northern provinces of Oudomxay, Phongsaly, Huaphanh,
Xayabury ancl Luang Prabang are among the poorest in terms of per capita GDP, and receive net transfers
from the Government for the provincial administrative budget.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 4                 Title: Provindal Infrastructue Project
County: Lao PDR
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for details and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown).
Cost Incl.    % of    IDA-      % of
Component             Category   Contingencies  Total  financing    IDA-
(US$M)             (US$M)   financing
(1) Transport Access: Improving   Physical,   23.31     75.0      21.36      91.6
physical access including   project
rehabilitating and maintaining  manage-
roads and constructing an   ment
airfield and river crossing. It
also includes developing local
private contractors.
(2) Township Water Supply:     Physical,       3.96      12.7      3.62      91.5
Providing sufficient township  project
water supplies of reliable  manage-
quality. This will reduce the   ment
time residents spend seeking
water and provide them with
an amount and quality that
will meet their basic health
and hygiene needs.
(3) Rural Water Supply and     Physical,       2.92 *    9.4       2.14      73.4
Sanitation: Providing water   policy, and
and sanitation to rural areas    project
and promoting hygiene       manage-
awareness; also, forming    ment.
community user groups to
manage and maintain the
facilities provided under the
project.
(4) Institutional Strengthening:    Institution  0.90    2.9       0.67      74.9
Capacity Building/          building,
strengthening of local     project
governments. This will      manage-
improve the planning and    ment
operational ability of the
technical and administrative
organs of local governments
to execute and monitor
provincial investment projects.
Total                             31.1      100.0    27.8        89.4
Note: * includes community contributions



Project Appraisal Document                Page 5                   Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project supports reforms involving decentralization and reduction of regional disparities.
(a) Decentralization will be supported through the investment in basic infrastructure and capacity
building at the provincial level. Decentralization can only be effective if local governments can improve
their human resources and take charge of their investment planning. As the project was prepared and will
be executed by local governments, it is providing hands-on training for local government staff who will
learn to handle new tasks such as planning and managing the budget, deciding on capital investment
priorities, and executing/monitoring their investment decisions with physical and financial controls.
Indeed, the project's greatest challenge will be to expand the local capacity to accomplish these
administrative tasks.
(b) The Government is focusing on reducing regional disparities in order to ensure that many
socioeconomic groups will benefit from the growth process. Until now, the relatively favorable economic
growth of recent years has been concentrated in the central and southern regions, while in the
impoverished north, the primary source of family income is low-yielding rice that grows under rainfed
conditions. Here, physical infrastructure is the least adequate, agricultural and social support services are
weak, and opportunities for non-farm employment are the least promising. Phongsaly province is
particularly disadvantaged, since the lack of year-round access and other basic infrastructure is
compounded by the mountainous topography. Thus, the persistent poverty is generating political tension
and out-migration to the larger cities, especially Vientiane. Oudomnxay province is strategically located at
the center of the northern region. Therefore its improvement in transport access would directly facilitate
convenient connection and better market integration among provinces. By providing basic infrastructure
to Phongsaly and Oudomxay provinces, in addition to IDA's current activities in Luang Namtha (another
poor northern province), IDA would have a consolidated program to help the Government to reduce
regional disparities over time.
3. Benefits and target population
The project will help raise living standards in Phongsaly and Oudomxay. In particular it will:
(a)    Provide year-round access to rural communities. A socio-economic survey carried out
during project preparation showed that about 52,000 people in the 125 villages and
district communities in the two provinces will be affected. Moreover, investment in
roads is expected to stimulate resources from other donors who were interested in the
region but found activities to be too costly, given the problem of access. Benefits from
year-round road access will be substantial, especially for Phongsaly, which historically
has been isolated from the rest of the country (see Box 1).



Project Appraisal Document                Page 6                   Tile: Provincal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Box 1: Access conditions in Phongsaly and Oudomxay
Phongsaly. Until last year, materials and supplies could only be transported to the province on a few routes.
One was by way of the Nam Ou River, which connects to Luang Prabang; however, it is not navigable year-round and
certain sections are dangerous during the rainy season. Another option is to go north from Luang Namtha into China
and west to Phongsaly, which was the most convenient route until the relationship with China deteriorated in the late
1970s and the border was closed. Eventually, it reopened in 1992 and the connection has been reinstalled. However, it
is not the most favorable situation for Lao to have to access its own province through other country. An airfield was
constructed for military purposes during the liberation war, but as it was not maintained for a long period, it is now
inoperable.
To provide year-round access to the province, the Government allocated US$5.7 million equivalent to open up
109 km of road from Pak Nam Noy to connect with the road from China to Phongasly at Ban Yor. However, because
the road crosses mountainous terrain, construction required a large volunie of cut and fill, which has caused landslides
during the rainy season that often block the road. This problem will persist until the mountain slope stabilizes over the
next 8-10 years.
Because of the problems with access, many donors have been unwilling to initiate programs. Although the
Government has urged them since 1990 to diffuse their activities instead of concentrating them in the central and
southern regions, only recently has it succeeded in attracting them to Oudomxay and Luang Namtha provinces.
According to Phongsaly officials, many donors visited Phongsaly but decided it was not cost effective to launch
projects there, since it would be extremely difficult to supervise them.
The proposed investment for transport infrastructure for Phongsaly was designed to ensure year-round access,
and at the lowest cost. The package includes rehabilitating an air field and two road sections: (a) one road extends from
Oudomxay to the Nam Ou River crossing at Muang Khoua (52 km from Muang Xay to the Phongsaly border and
another 48 km from the provincial border to Muang Khoua), which, combining land and river transport, will open up
access during the rainy season; and (b) another extends from Ban Pakha at the Chinese border to Ban Yor (39 km),
where it connects to the north with the Boun Neua road to Muang Phongsaly, the capital of the province, and to the
south with the new road to Pak Nam Noy. The air field investment will ensure year-round and prompt passenger
access. The Bank investment will complement a recent effort by the Comite de Cooperation avec le Laos (CCL), an
NGO financed by Caisse Francaise de Developpement: CCL agreed in 1997 to rehabilitate 20 km of road from Ban
Hat Xa, at the river port on Nam Ou River, to Muang Phongsaly, and another 40 km from Muang Phongsaly to Boun
Neua north of Ban Yor.
Oudomxay. The provincial road from Muang Xay, capital of Oudomxay, to Pak Beng, a river port town on
the Mekong River, is the most important route for the province, as it connects five of the seven districts. Moreover, in
the future, this road could be one of the important sub-regional routes connecting Thailand to Vietnam via Sayaboury,
Oudomxay and Phongsaly provinces. The 239 km of road from Pak Beng to Muang Khoua to be rehabilitated under
the project will contribute to about 75% of the sub-regional connections inside the Lao border. The missing links will
be about 30 km of road from the other side of the Mekong River in Sayaboury province to the Thai border, and about
50 km of road from Muang Khoua to Taichang at the Vietnamese border.
Although the provincial road has a rural function, it was recently re-classified as National Road # 2W from
Muang Xay to Pak Bang and Road # 2E from Muang Xay into the southeastern part of Phongsaly province, where it
ends at Taichang, which borders Vietnam. The road continues in Vietnam, to Dien Bienphu. China built the road (to a
bituminous sealed standard) in the early 1 970s as part of an 800 km network in three northern provinces of Lao. The
horizontal and vertical alignments are reasonable and need not be changed. The bridges and culverts were built to
withstand heavy loads and were well engineered, requiring only basic maintenance. During the past 20 years when
traffic loads were light, the lack of maintenance was not a problem. However, since traffic has steadily increased, the
bituminous seal is rapidly disintegrating, which allows water to saturate the sub-grade layers. Thus, the roads can no
longer be patched or periodically repaired. Moreover, the roadside drainage in many areas is heavily silted and not
functioning, which adds to the saturation problem. Under the project, damaged sections will be rehabilitated to normal
service standards at the least cost.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 7                  Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(b)   Provide treated water to major towns. The investment in water supply and sanitation
will provide sufficient good quality water, reduce the time people spend to obtain it, and
significantly improve basic health and hygiene (see Box 2 for a description of the water
supply at Muang Xay and Muang Khoua ). The population in the proposed reticulation
area of the Muang Xay pipe scheme is 19,158; at the estimated growth rate of 2.8%,
22,000 will benefit by 2002, the year it will begin operating. The number will rise to 34,000
by 2017, assuming a 15-year service life for the system. In Muang Khoua, the second
largest town in Phongsaly, the water investment will benefit about 7,000 population
initially and 11,000 after 15 years.
Box 2: Current water supply in Muang Xay, Oudomxay and Muang Khoua, Phongsaly
Muang Xay, Oudomxay. The system, commissioned in 1986, has many defects. First, coverage is
inadequate, due to the town's rapid growth; second, the plant only treats water from one of the town's three
sources and water from the other two enters the reticulation system untreated.
The proposed upgrade would disconnect the untreated spring water from the reticulated supply and a
new dedicated main would carry it to a new water treatment plant (WTP) to be built at the storage reservoir site.
The spring sources will be augmented with water pumped in from the Ko River, to ensure a year-round supply.
Muang Khoua, Phongsaly. The system, built in 1978, consisted of two or three tap stands. Due to
maintenance problems, it was taken over in 1994 and developed by a semi-private organization. The average
volume of water sold each month is 1,250 m,3 which represents only 32 % of the amount produced--indicating
that a large portion is unaccounted for. This system also has many defects. The quantity produced does not
meet current demand: In dry months, water is allocated on a rotating basis, with some parts of town receiving it
only every other day. In addition, most of the PVC pipe system was installed above ground; while this makes it
easy to detect leaks, the pipes are vulnerable to tampering and exposed to sunlight damage. Also, because water
meters are mounted above ground, mold forms on the inside and causes them to malfunction, which explains
why less water is sold than produced. Further, the intake area is exposed to flooding, and the banks of the source
are steep and badly eroded in some areas; the risk of further erosion means that sections of the upper intake
transmission line are always threatened by landslides.
The proposed upgrade would abandon the existing scheme except for the upper intake, which would be
redirected to augment the raw water supply to the proposed new WTP. The scheme would pump raw water
from Phak River to a WTP site above the areas to be reticulated (see Volume 5 of the project feasibility report
in the project files for more details).
(c)    Provide low-cost water and sanitation to rural communities. This component will
benefit about 165 rural and remote communities with a combined population of
approximately 42,000, which includes ethnic minorities, 116 village schools and 36 village
dispensaries and sub-district health centers (see Box 3).



Project Appraisal Document                Page 8                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Box 3: Strategy, preparation and design of the rural water supply
Strategy. Under the direction of Institute of Clean Water (Namsaat), a Sector Strategy and Guideline
National Framework (SSGNF) was issued in 1997; it emphasizes water and sanitation use, sustainability and impact
(on health, economic cost recovery and the environment) rather than merely coverage. It also stresses decentralized
planning and implementation, community-based management and financing, and cost recovery. New emphasis has
been placed on gender, behavioral change through participatory hygiene education, access to services for the poor,
equity, service to ethnic minorities, and process--particularly tailoring external support to strengthen local capacity.
Further, it proposes to rehabilitate failed schemes (technically and institutionally), improve the control of diarrheal
disease (particularly cholera), and expand the capacity to respond to emergencies and disasters. Most important,
there is new guidance to build the local capacity and human resources, and convert the plans into actions.
Preparation. The process has aimed to ensure that the project is financially and technically feasible,
appropriate to the socio-economic conditions and, in particular, sustainable. To meet these objectives, the preparation
was designed in two stages: The first, completed by the end of August 1997, investigated various partnerships,
obtained information about capacity building needs, trained the field preparation team and performed desk studies.
The second involved in-depth field team training, which was followed by sample community-based dialogues and
field studies. A workshop was held in early September 1997 in Oudomxay to discuss with local officials the new
national rural water supply strategy and its pilot implementation through the proposed project.
Design and implementation plan. With a focus on process, the component will be implemented in two
connected phases. By definition, a community-based process cannot be completed in just a few months, and this
effort is the guarantee that phase two investments in water and sanitation will be appropriate, truly desired, lead to
health and other positive impacts, and can be sustained and supported with local resources. Phase one (12-24
months) will concentrate on building capacity at all levels, promoting awareness of hygiene, introducing learning
mechanisms, and preparing subsequent components. It will build on and extend much of the work that was piloted in
the preparation phase. Phase two (36-48 months) will focus on community-based water and sanitation investments,
on further supporting communities so they can obtain maximum benefit from the facilities, and on disseminating the
findings from the new community-based approach to all stakeholders (details available in Project Files).
(d)   Build local government capacity. Besides providing basic infrastructure, the project will
strengthen the provincial administration's capacity to support growing economic
opportunities in the northern region. Consultant services and equipment will be provided to
various provincial agencies, such as the Department of Communication, Transport, Post
and Construction (DCTPC), Department of Planning and Cooperation (DPC), Department
of Finance (DOF), Namsaat, and the Water Supply Enterprise of Lao (Nampapa Lao
(NPL). These efforts have been designed to ultimately strengthen their ability to plan,
budget, implement, supervise and monitor development initiatives so the agencies will
gradually need less input from central units. The ultimate beneficiaries will be the
provincial governments and population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
(a)   Implementation period. December 1998 to May 2006.
(b)   Executing agencies. The provincial governments will be responsible for executing the
project, with assistance, especially on technical issues, from the central line ministries,
including Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and
Construction (MCTPC), Nampapa Lao and Namsaat. Whenever possible, emphasis will be
given to community-based management for water supply and sanitation, e.g. by beneficiary



Project Appraisal Document               Page 9                  Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
groups. The institutional arrangements for implementation would closely follow local
procedures, since these are generally sound, although administered weakly due to the lack
of qualified staff. Through the project, the provincial executing agencies, which lack the
capacity or exposure to manage large, complex undertakings, would be strengthened for
project implementation and future development purposes. This will be accomplished by
transferring qualified staff from the national ministries and providing support and training
from consultants. In order to sustain the activities, the investment should be seen as an
integral part of the provincial investment program and the day-to-day operations of each
line department. Indeed, the project will be the training ground that will provide the
executing agencies with the skills they need to eventually plan, implement and monitor
future investments.
The provincial DCTPCs, with some technical support from MCTPC, will execute the transport
access component. The provincial Nampapa, which reports to the provincial DCTPC, will be responsible
for the township water supply component. The provincial Namsaat, with significant support from the
central agency, will be responsible for the rural water and sanitation component. Under each line
department, a Component Implementation Unit (CIU) will be established with direct responsibility to
implement its investment activities. The provincial DPC will be involved indirectly as the investment
planner and advisor to the provincial governor: It will coordinate the project's various aspects, which cut
across different sectors, to ensure that counterpart funds are available, and to consolidate project progress
reports and technical and financial audits (see Box 4).
Box 4: Executing agencies
(Governor)
DPC                            C DDO                           D         c.
Constructio            ne        P     Noavsacatl
(CIU-Roads)        Na(CI-WS)a         (CIU-RWS)
Overall       Funding &                              Sp               Rural Water&
Coordinaton                         Access             sp                  Sanitation
Component         Component            Component
Contractors 



Project Appraisal Document              Page 10               Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(c)   Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The provinces and MOF
will maintain separate accounts covering all financial transactions for project activities.
These will be audited annually by a qualified independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
according to the Guidelines for Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(The World Bank, January 1995). IDA funds will be used to pay for annual auditing work.
These audits will cover (i) project accounts, (ii) the special account, and (iii) statement of
expenditures (SOE). SOE audits will contain a separate opinion as to whether the
disbursements were used for the purposes intended.
Although the provincial accounting systems are properly maintained according to MOF
guidelines, they could still be improved. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
systems will be introduced to improve the financial reporting for project-related
transactions and provide enough information to manage and monitor project activities.
IDA funds will be used to hire a qualified accounting firm to assess the DOF's financial
management and develop an action plan for improvements. This work is expected to be
completed in the early stages of project implementation.
(d)   Monitoring and supervision arrangements. Through the provincial executive office,
DCTPC and Namsaat will submit timely, semi-annual progress reports on project
implementation to MOF, MCTPC and IDA. They will also submit part two of an
implementation completion report to IDA within six months of the credit closing date.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that project implementation will be monitored
on the basis of the agreed commitments and performance indicators summarized in Annex
1.
Semi-annual IDA supervision missions will review performance indicators and address
issues related to project management and implementation including road works contract
execution, procurement, budget, the schedule and training. A tri-party mid-term review of
the project to be chaired by provincial governments and involve central agencies and IDA
will be held in early 2001 to make a detailed assessment of progress. IDA supervision
missions will require approximately 30 staff weeks per year during the early years, but can
be reduced to about 20 staff weeks per year after the mid-term review, until project
completion. Supervision will be carried out mainly by road and water supply engineers,
assisted occasionally by a public administration planner, economist and training specialist,
social science expertise.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Two alternatives to investment in basic provincial infrastructure were considered: (a) a sectoral
investment focusing on a single infrastructure sub-sector, such as roads, irrigation, or water supply, along
with a national investment program to address related issues; or (b) an area development investment
focusing on a particular geographical location--which could involve multisectoral interventions.
The second approach was chosen because: (a) given the serious lack of qualified staff at the central
Government and, more critically, provincial levels, the intervention can target the local level and gradually
build capacity to manage the investment; (b) it can promote the sense of local ownership that ultimately
leads to long-term sustainability after the works are completed. Indeed, rural development projects rely
more on strong community commitment than on external financing and centralized initiatives; (c) it is



Project Appraisal Document               Page 11                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
more cost effective as it does not diffuse the supervision. Since few provinces have convenient access to
Vientiane, travel to dispersed project sites (the provinces with the least access are the poorest and most in
need of IDA assistance) could take up half the supervision time; and (d) experiences from earlier IDA
efforts--in the Upland Agriculture Development Project (sectoral approach) and the Luang Namtha
Provincial Development Project (area development approach)--demonstrate that the geographical approach
is more tailored to the needs of local beneficiaries and thus more successful (see Section D-3, below).
2. Related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                 Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress      Objective
(IP)          (DO)
Bank-financed
*  Upland crop cultivation and    Upland Agriculture         S              S
rural access to markets     Development Project
*  Cultivation practices and   Forestry Conservation         S              S
forestry conservation       Project
*  Area development, with a    Luang Nawtha Provincial       S              S
focus on basic infrastructure    Development Project
*  Land management             Land Titling Project          S              S
Other development agencies
*  Non-agricultural income     EU's Integrated Rural         S              S
generating activities       Development Project in
Luang Namtha Province
IP/DO Ratings: HS (highly satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (unsatisfactory), HU (highly unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The conclusion in the May 1995 CPPR indicated that projects focusing on a few key objectives and
whose interventions were limited to a few geographic areas had the best chance of succeeding; also, that
not all implementation problems can be blamed on lack of capacity: In a few cases, expectations (by both
the Government and the Bank) in the original design with regard to objectives and time frames needed to
achieve them were unrealistic.
Experiences from two ongoing rural infrastructure projects, the Upland Agriculture Development
(UADP) and Luang Namtha Provincial Development (LNPDP) projects, confirm some of the CPPR's
conclusions:
(a)   Investment should be carefully defined, prioritized and focused. In the UADP, which
has been less successful, the original design included over 800 km of access road, 5
schemes of small scale irrigation, agriculture research and extension, rural credit, village
water supply, studies and TA, spread over four provinces in the central and southern
regions. The project showed signs of distress after four years into implementation and only
20% of the allocated IDA funds were disbursed. In the fifth year, the project was greatly



Project Appraisal Document              Page 12                Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
scaled down to only three key activities. Also, the method was changed from centrally-
controlled implementation to provincial execution, with the central Government playing a
coordinating role. This occurred partly because Government policy changed in 1995 to
encourage greater local participation for project execution, which was consistent with Bank
policy. In the LNPDP, the design was much simpler, with the investment focused in one
relatively poor northern province. Activities were limited to constructing roads, water
supply system, and included a major TA component which has helped strengthen the
provincial government's administrative functioning.
(b)   Capacity building should be an integral part of investment. Although the Government
seems committed to reforms and new development concepts, the lack of local capacity to
plan, coordinate and implement the fruits of those ideas is the greatest bottleneck. Also
problematic are the highly fragmented service delivery systems, and a heavy donor
presence but weak absorptive capacity for external funds. As it takes decades for countries
at the development level of Lao PDR to acquire a cadre of qualified staff, building capacity
and training will be integral parts of all IDA ongoing and planned operations.
(c)    Design of the TA component should be broadened to focus on strengthening provincial
administrative organs so the project would be part of daily operations and not a special unit
created solely to supervise the investment. The TA component for LNPDP was designed to
cover broader objectives to strengthen provincial government capacity to plan, manage,
execute and monitor investments, apart from supervising construction-as is usually the
case with TA. The financing of TA also affects the level of control over TA activities and
direction. The TA component under UADP was originally funded by a bilateral donor,
with no IDA input (which could create problems, if the aims differ). Conversely, the
LNPDP was designed to have IDA fully fund the TA, as this will give the Government and
Bank more control over the use of TA to serve the project objectives.
(d)   Consultation with provincial work units and beneficiary groups should be done early
for project planning, implementation and O&M to ensure continuity and sustainability after
the project is completed. As local consultation and participation during project preparation
will be critical to the project's success, it will be best to involve the different groups early
in the preparation process. For example, the LNPDP was conceived as a provincially-
based project in which authorities and the local chapter of Lao Women's Union would help
select the location and design of the stand pipes and wash facilities. With the UADP's
irrigation component, it would have been better if the beneficiaries responsible for
operating and maintaining (O&M) the schemes would have been involved early in the
process.
(e)    Close coordination with the provincial and national State Planning Committee (SPC)
and MOF during project preparation is important to ensure it is included in the national
investment plan; this way, recurrent expenditures and counterpart funds would be available
when the project becomes effective. Availability of local counterpart funds is a generic
issue for project implementation in Lao so far, and the first couple of years of the LNPDP
revealed how difficult it is for provincial governments to ensure adequate budgets.
However, both projects share similar problems with respect to the extreme shortage of qualified
staff at the provincial level and therefore will have to rely heavily on consultants, mainly foreign, to run
the TA component. Unfortunately, it is very difficult for Lao PDR to attract good quality foreign
consultants. Partly this is because of the language problem and partly because its neighbor, Vietnam, is
more attractive to the better-qualified consultants.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 13                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Based on these lessons, the project was designed to: (a) concentrate investments in only two
provinces; (b) carefully define, prioritize and select only two basic infrastructure activities to be funded;
(c) focus the TA on strengthening provincial administrative organs so the project would be part of daily
operations and not a special unit created solely to supervise the investment; (d) consult with provincial
work units and beneficiary groups early in the project preparation stage; and (e) periodically inform SPC
and MOF regarding the progress of project preparation to ensure that the project is included in the national
investment plan and that recurrent expenditures and counterpart funds would be available when the project
becomes effective.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Various Government agencies have been committed to the project since the Government-Bank
Country Program discussions occurred in mid- 1995. Examples include: (a) the President of the SPC and
Vice Minister of the Prime Minister's Office discussed the locational choice and scope of the project with
the Bank identification mission; (b) the MCTPC and provincial governments promptly assigned staff to
work with the Bank mission; (c) the governors and deputy governors of the two provinces personally
worked with Bank staff throughout project preparation; (d) the central and provincial Namsaat spent
substantial time and resources on preparation workshops for the rural water component, field
reconnaissance and analysis; (e) local chapters of the Lao Women's Union and local
communities/beneficiaries participated actively in designing and preparing the project, both for the town
and rural water and sanitation components; and (f) the provinces submitted the project implementation
plan (PIP) on time, although it will need to be improved.
5. Bank value added
The dilemma and vicious cycle experienced by the poor provinces are that, as they are isolated and
in a remote area, the costs of carrying out and supervising projects are relatively high; therefore, it has
been difficult to attract donor investment and other forms of support. Yet, without it, they have little
opportunity to realize their economic potential and they will always lag behind other provinces. This, in
turn, will make them less attractive and more costly for donor investments, as pioneering operations under
such conditions are risky. For this reason, the value added of Bank support is its ability to invest in what
others see as necessary but are unable to address.
The Bank's comparative advantage in supporting the proposed provincial infrastructure investment
is that: (a) it has experience and expertise in infrastructure investments; (b) with relatively small funds--
although considered large by many donors--it can attract investment after basic infrastructure is in place;
and (c) although the Government has made preliminary decisions and sketched out the broad priorities for
provincial infrastructure investments, it needs assistance to implement them and the Bank is well equipped
to provide it.
E: Summary Project Analysis (see detailed assessments in the project file, Annex 8)
1. Economic
More detailed economic analyses, including cost-benefit analysis, net present value, and economic
rate of return calculations are presented in Annex 4 and also in the five-volume feasibility report in the
project files. A summary of the analysis for the roads, air field and township water supply, totaling about
80% of the project investment, is as follows:



Project Appraisal Document             Page 14                Title: Provindal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
a) The investments in township water supply in Muang Xay and Muang Khoua show ERRs of
11.52% and 10.28% and NPVs of US$193,000 and US$15,000, respectively;
b) ERRs for the road investments vary based on the road section but were between 14%-60%.
c) ERRs for the air field vary from under 10% to up to 40%, depending on the traffic growth
assumption and the monetization of the time-saving benefit.
2. Financial
The project will have significant impact on provincial budgets and capital investment programs in
the two provinces during its implementation period (see financial summary in Annex 5). For example, a
US$3.5 million and US$2 million investment in Oudomxay and Phongsaly in their peak year of project
implementation would be equal to 124% and 74%, respectively, of their total capital investment in
1996/1997. However, considering the rudimentary existing infrastructure, any minimum effort to bring it
to the basic level of service deemed necessary to affect the productive sectors would require at least that
much financial input. The counterpart fund issue was fully discussed with provincial and national
governments who ensured that necessary funds will be made available for the implementation of the
project since it is one of the Government's high priority projects.
3. Technical
The technical choice for each investment was the most cost effective method and judged
appropriate for the type of activities and level of development. The average cost to rehabilitate the roads is
estimated to be less than US$50,000 per km, which is considered modest for this kind of provincial trunk
road and for the level of service the investment will ensure. The rehabilitation method proposed, sealing
with DBST, is commonly used in Lao PDR and the region, and is the most cost effective method for this
type of road. The contracting industry is accustomed to bidding for and carrying out this kind of work.
Procurement of the civil works contracts would be packaged with due consideration to the local
contracting capacity; in order to develop the local contracting industry, the packages would be kept
relatively small (no larger than US$500,000 equivalent per contract). As the implementing agency's
capacity is weak, the road component will be assisted by a Road Construction and Maintenance Specialist
(RCMS) who has at least 10 years of international experience on similar projects.
With respect to the township water supply component, a few methods (such as slow filtration,
conventional filtration, ferro-cement technology and intake technology) were considered before a final
recommendation was made. The least cost solution was selected and is considered appropriate for the
country; Nampapa Lao was fully consulted and approves of the choice. The full O&M cost recovery
principle will be imposed after implementation is completed and good quality water is supplied year-
round.
As to the rural water and sanitation component, the idea was to use appropriate and affordable
technologies, emphasizing sustainability and community-based management. Features include raising
awareness of hygiene, responding to economic demand, and promoting dialogue-based informed choice
by the communities. These will ensure the technology will be appropriate for the community and
sustainable. The rural water component is designed to recover on average 65% of the capital investment
cost, the sanitation component, 75%. Operation and maintenance costs will be 100% community sourced.
Government and credit-sourced funds will be utilized to support hygiene awareness, community dialogue
and linked activities.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 15                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
4. Institutional
Executing agencies. The project was designed with full cognizance of the weak human resource
and institutional capacity. Thus, capacity building and training are critical parts of every component and
significant effort is being made to ensure the project will not only deliver physical infrastructure but will
raise the skill level of local engineers and planners.
Project management. Experience from the UADP and Luang Namtha projects shows that
provincial DCTPC and Nampapa can handle simple investment activities, with some technical supervision
from colleagues in the line ministries. However, for larger and more complex activities, where
engineering is not the only facet, it is known that management lacks the necessary skills. Moreover, there
is no simple solution to this problem as it takes decades for countries at this development level to build and
train qualified staff and retain them. During the transitional period, authorities have no choice but to rely
heavily on on-the-job and short-term training with foreign consultants, and at the same time invest in long-
term training and educational programs to build expertise for the future. The project, therefore, includes a
considerable amount of TA, and short- and long-term training: About 14% of total project costs are for TA
and on-the-job training, and another 4% are for other short- and long-term training and educational
programs.
5. Social
Community participation, information sharing and consultation were carried out during project
preparation (see Volume 2, the Socio-Economic Overview of the Feasibility Report, available in the
project file). For the rural water and sanitation component, Namsaat will provide a socio-economic
assessment based on community surveys as part of training and capacity building. Also, community
dialogues will be conducted during phase one (see Box 3 above) of the rural water and sanitation
implementation plan.
6. Environmental assessment       Environmental Category     []A   [x] B   []C
The engineering and design work done during project preparation offers an assessment of the
project's environmental impacts, confirming that it will not affect ecologically sensitive areas and that
impacts will be minor. IDA will review bidding documents to ensure the works will be executed in an
environmentally acceptable manner. Since the roads will be rehabilitated within the existing alignment, no
resettlement and land acquisition are anticipated. The airfield and related access road in Phongsaly will
affect 21 families resulting in loss of 5.18 ha of paddy field but will not require physical relocation. The
township water supply component in Muang Xai in Oudomxay and Muang Khoua in Phongsaly will affect
two families, one of which will have to physically relocate. In the design of the project it has been the Lao
Government's policy to try to avoid loss of assets. When selecting the location for the airfield and related
access road, and the water treatment plants and river intakes, consideration was given to avoiding gardens,
dense forest, houses, etc. as much as possible. The design of the project was conducted in such a way that
impacts on lives and incomes of affected people were brought to a minimum. A Plan for Land Acquisition,
Compensation and Resettlement (PLACR) in this regard has been agreed by Government and is in line
with the Bank's OD 4.30 June 1990 on Involuntary Resettlement.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 16                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
7. Participatory approach
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation     Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups     IS/CON          IS/CON/COL          IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                  IS/CON          IS/CON/COL          IS/CON/COL
Academic institutions
Local government                   IS/CON              COL                COL
Other donors                       IS/CON            IS/CON              IS/COL
Other - central agencies/       IS/CON/COL         IS/CON/COL          IS/CON/COL
ministries
(IS) Information sharing; (CON) consultation; and (COL) collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Sustainability of this kind of basic rural infrastructure project is related to local ownership and the
technical/financial ability to maintain the asset after the investment is completed. To achieve
sustainability, the project was designed as follows: (a) it is geographically concentrated to facilitate
supervision of the local implementing agencies; (b) it will train local government officials, contractors
and community groups so that the capacity to maintain the infrastructure at the local level can be
enhanced; (c) it will strengthen the institutional and human resources of the local governments so the basic
infrastructure can be properly planned and financed; and (d) preparation involved a series of participatory
and interactive workshops with national, provincial, and district stakeholders, to foster local ownership.
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                 Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Overall macroeconomic instability    M    Modest risk but well beyond the scope of the
disturbs public spending on capital        project. It will be monitored through
investment.                                macroeconomic dialogue with the country.
Government and private contractors   M    This is a significant risk and will be addressed
lack the experience to implement an        through the training component and more frequent
externally financed project; elements      supervision during the early years of project
such as competitive bidding could delay    implementation.
works execution.
Lack of counterpart funds could delay  M    This is also a significant risk, given the fiscal
works execution.                           status of the two provinces. Thus, project design
emphasizes least cost technical solutions and
modest investment. Moreover, implementing
agencies, such as the DCTPCs, NPL, Namsaat, are
urged to communicate closely with the provincial
DPC and DOF during their budget preparation
period each May, to inform them about the amount
of counterpart funding required for the next fiscal



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 17                  Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao POR
year and to ensure its availability in a timely
manner. Moreover, annual budget review with
IDA will be carried out during its normal course of
project supervision to ensure sufficient attention be
paid to the issue.
Poor monitoring and accountability     M     The project will include funds for independent
with respect to the use of the fund.         (non-governmental) auditing of project accounts.
Overall risk rating             m
Risk rating - H (high risk), S (substantial risk), M (modest risk), N (negligible or low risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects: None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness
Duly qualified consultancy firms have been recruited for the provision of technical assistance services
for the following components: road rehabilitation and spot improvement, and township water supply.
2. Other
1. Oudomxay and Phongsaly and Ministry of Finance will maintain separate accounts for all financial
transactions for Project activities. From fiscal year 1999 onward, these accounts will be audited
annually by a qualified independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The audit report should be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of its fiscal year and will cover (i) project accounts,
(ii) the special account and (iii) statements of expenditures (SOE).
2. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall maintain Project Implementation Units to undertake day-to-day
supervision and coordination of their respective Project components.
3. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the Plan for Land Acquisition, Compensation
and Resettlement with due diligence and efficiency including (but without limitation) the
acquisition of land and resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons.
4. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the training activities under their respective
parts of the Project in accordance with an annual training program to be furnished to the
Association for prior approval not later than April 30 in each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal
Year 1999.
5. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall:
(a) Maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with the
Project Perforrnance Indicators set forth in the Project Agreement, the progress achieved in carrying
out the Project.
(b) Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the
Association: (i) an annual report, not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning Fiscal



Project Appraisal Document                Page 1s                   ThU: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
paragraph (a) above in respect of the preceding Fiscal year, and setting forth proposed measures, as
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project; and (ii)
a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 2001, setting forth any proposed measures, as indicated by
said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Project.
(c) Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)
above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto as shall have been agreed between the
Association and each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, respectively.
6. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the Financial Management Plan with due diligence
and efficiency. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Financial Management Plan.
7. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall take all action necessary to ensure that the construction, rehabilitation,
improvement and installation works , to be carried out under the Project shall be carried out in a manner
which at all times ensures that any adverse environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely
manner which is acceptable to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L, Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:   Supee Teravanmthom
Sector Manager:   '  delrey Gutman



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 19                            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
County: Lao PDR
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Objective Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:  * improved allocation to       * CAS reports;             (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Devise solutions for the   poverty-focused operations   * biennial CPPR; strong  *  Government strong
appropriate delivery of   in current and capital       follow-up;                   commitment to improve
rural social and economic    budget;                 * progress report on poverty   living standard of rural
infrastructure;         * successful design of poverty-    assessment.              poor, assisting them to
*  improve local             focused decentralized                                      realize their economic
Government capacity in    project to take services close                            potential and better
planning, monitoring and    to the user                                             integrated them into the
implementing capital                                                                national economy
investment program
Project Development         * increase in number of staff    * quantitatively and   *  trained staff will remain
Objectives:                   who were trained in the     qualitatively assess:         working in the
a) build/strengthen planning,    field/subject concerning   0 training courses          provincial Governments
budgeting, management,     planning, budgeting,            provided through the
and technical capacity of  management, and specific        project;
local governments.         technical subject.             0 performance of staff
* increase in frequency and      who works in the
number of training courses     project and/or attended
and subjects attended by       the training;
provincial staff              0 course evaluation by
course participants;
b) develop human resource   * number of provincial staff    * monitor and quantitatively   * trained staff will remain
base for longer term       who are trained and has      and qualitatively assess   working in the provincial
sustainability of the project.   experiences in budgeting and    how, which and whether  government;
project management;         the province has          * supports and appropriate
* increase in use of appropriate   incorporate appropriate  action taken by the higher
and modern technologies in    technologies in their    level authority in the
their every day works;      everyday works to          provincial government to
* number of provincial staff  modernize and improve      adopt modern technologies
who have experience in      efficiency;                in their every day works;
executing maintenance                                 * economic condition in the
contract particularly road;                            area or region are robust
and qualified local
contractors remain in the
area/region.
c) provide basic infrastructure  * reduction of time spent for    * collect household level data  * other economic
in support of social and   traveling and transporting   and employ quantitative    development conditions are
economic development of    goods and services           and qualitative analysis to  present;
the two poor provinces     (Currently, using a 4 WD     determine association or    * economic condition in the
through the provision of   vehicle it takes 10 hours to  relationship or causal    area/region remain robust;
physical access, and water    travel from M. Xay to M.  relation between provision   * adequate agricultural
supply to meet their needs.    Pakbeng, 5 hours to travel  of infrastructure and key  output;
from M. Xay to M Khoua, 2    measurable variables that   * off-farm job opportunity
hours to travel from M. Boun   are usually used to gauge  are available.
Neua to B. Pakha;           economic development.
* reduction of time spent for
fetching water;
* increase in availability of
time spent for productive    I



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 20                            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Objective Summary           Key Performance             Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
purposes;
* reduction of transportation
costs.
Output:                     * by the end of fiscal year  * monitor and evaluate the    * support from central
(a) Capacity strengthening   2005, six persons from      implementation and         Government to the
through investment in basic  Oudomxay and Phongsaly      incorporation of the       provinces is timely, both in
rural infrastructure         will have received bachelor  accounting action plan for    terms of technical and
degree and returned to work    project accounting;     financial resources;
in the province in responsible  . monitor and evaluate  * there is tight monitoring
position;                   performance of staff in    and accountability of the
* at least 9 road engineers and    each CIU and staff who is    use of internal and external
technicians, 6 water        directly involved in the   resources
engineers and technicians   project from DPC, Nam
from DCTPC and Nam Papa    Papa, and DOF;
of each provinces have    * Quantitatively monitor
received on-the-job training  persons having worked and
and other relevant          working on/in Oudomxay
experiences to independently   and Phongsaly
handle subsequent project    0 DCTPC
activities;                  0 DPC
* Health and hygiene           0 DOF
specialists, and community   0 Nam Papa M. Xay and
organizer at the district and   M. Khoua
provincial level will be able
to carry on the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation
(RWSS) program after the
completion of project;
* Planning and coordination
capacity of DPC staff will be
upgraded to handle
provincial planning needs;
* project accounting,
budgeting with built-in
auditing and/or cross
checking system as
recommended in the project
accounting action plan will
be implemented with at least
3 accountant trained;   L
(b) Physical access         * completion of at least 110  * monitor and evaluate the    * counterpart funding could
improvement to:              km of road within the first 4  length and quality of   be a cause for
* develop a local capacity to  years from the project    rehabilitated road;        implementation delay;
improve much needed         effective;                * monitor and evaluate the    * NCB bidding procedure
transport access and to be  * increase in the size of   existing local contractors;  will cause some
able to subsequently        contract undertaken by small  * develop base line      implementation delay in
maintain them on a          contractors from a minimum    information regarding    the beginning but portfolio
sustainable basis;          contractual value of        travel time and monitor and   management capability of
encourage the development of   US$10,000/contract to      evaluate travel time in the  provincial staff will
local private contractor to  US$30,000/contract;         project road.              improve over time.
effectively undertake small
scale infrastructure civil
works.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 21                            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Objective Summary           Key Performance             Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
(c) Water supply and        * by the end of year 2004 at    * monitoring the number of   * counterpart funding could
sanitation improvement to:   least 15,000 people in M.  households/people who are    be a cause for
* improve the water supply   Xay and 4,500 people in M.    served with treated piped  implementation delay;
system of the provincial   Khoua are served with       water supply;             * NCB bidding procedure
and district centers       sufficiently piped and treated  * regularly monitor and  will cause some
* provide community latrine  water;                       evaluate quality and       implementation delay in
and washing facilities; and   * treated water available  quantity of water supply  the beginning but portfolio
* develop community water    through the project meet     service                    management capability of
system (well, boreholes and    World Health Organization    * monitor and evaluate - on  provincial staff will
gravity fed systems) for   (WHO) guidelines;           a regular basis - regarding  improve over time;
rural populations         * more than 90% of the       the quality of water supply   * participatory approach is
targeted communities and at    provided by Nam Papa M.    most effective in
least 70% of the population  Xay and M. Khoua;         encouraging the public
exhibit at least 3 positive  * develop baseline        sharing of public goods
changes in hygiene-related  information and monitor
behavior within a period of 2    and evaluate changes in
years;                      hygiene related behavior in
* in over 70% of the         the targeted communities
communities, the larger part    and make changes;
of the investment costs (and   * develop baseline
all the recurrent costs) will    information monitor and
be paid by the beneficiaries.    evaluate changes in water
* within 3 years, at least 70%  management practice and
of woman and children in the   amount of time spent;
targeted communities will
save at least 20% of the time
necessary for fetching and
treating water;
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each                                  (Components to
components: (see Annex 2   component, see detailed                                 Outputs)
for project description)    cost estimates in Annex 3)
*Inputs are generally     * counterpart funding could
I.  Transport access              US$23.31 million        monitored and evaluated   be a cause for
II. Township water supply         US$ 3.96 million        via progress reports and  implementation delay;
III. Rural water supply and                               disbursement reports and    * support from central
sanitation                    US$ 2.92 million        will be routinely review   Government to the
IV. Institution Strengthening     US$ 0.90 million        bi-annually during        provinces is timely, both in
supervision mission.      terms of technical and
* Project entity will be    financial resources;
Total                    US$ 31.1 million       responsible to arrange for
(including contingencies)    the preparation of quarterly
progress report for review
of the Bank.
* A mid-term review of the
project is planned in the
third year after the project
becomes effective. This
will be a tri-parties review
chair by provincial
Government and
participated by
representative from the
central government and the
Bank.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 22                Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Countwy Lao PDR
Annex 1.1: Provincial Profile of Oudomxay Province
1.    LoCATION. Oudomxay is located in the north western part of the Lao People's Democratic
Republic. It is bordered by China, the provinces of Phongsaly, Luang Prabang, Sayaboury, Bokeo
and Luang Namtha. The total area of the province is about 15,370 square kilometers, of which 85%
is mountainous. Agricultural land comprises about 43,450 ha of which 17%, 57.5% and 25.5% are
wet paddy fields, upland fields and cropping area, respectively. There is some undeveloped land
estimated at about 12,000 ha, which could be developed for paddy fields and other cash crops to
supply local markets, nearby provinces and neighboring countries. The total forest area of the
province is 4,150 km2 with an allowable cut of 3,000 m3 for the current year. There are 803 villages
located in the 7 districts of Xay, La, Namo, Nga, Beng, Houn and Pak Beng.
2.    DEMOGRAPHY. The 1995 population census shows that Oudomxay has a population of
210,820, of which 106,200 are women. The main ethnic group is Khmu (57.7%/O), while the Hmong,
Lao Lue and Lao Lum are about 13.1%, 12.2% and 9.1%, respectively. The population density is
about 14 persons per square kilometer. The annual growth rate was estimated at 2.9%. With a large
number of immigrants, in the last three years, from other northern provinces, especially Phongsaly,
the urban centers of Xay, Houn and Pak Beng districts have grown rapidly. The population
distribution in the districts of Oudomxay is shown in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: Population Distribution in Oudomxay Province-1996
Districts     Villages          Population          Household
Total        % F         Number
Xay             174         48,191       50.2          7,577
La               69         14,835       50.6          2,407
NA Mo           105         25,468       50.0          3,881
Nga             101         24,352       51.2          3,747
Beng             99         26,974       50.2          4,217
Houn            174         48,261       50.2          7,785
Pak Beng        81          22,739       51.5          3,476
TOTAL          803        210,820       50.4         33,090
Sources: Lao Census 95; IRAP 96; United Nations Development Program (UNDP)-RDF
3.    ECONoMic ACTIVITIES. Oudomxay is considered the central northern province linking all
six northern provinces and is accessible to Thailand and Vietnam. An overall economic growth of
68% was recorded between 1990 and 1995, or a compounded average growth of about 11% per year.
Among various sectors, agriculture and forestry increased by 27%, industry and handicraft increased
six folds and services increased two folds. Total provincial income increased from 23.1 billion Kip
in 1990 to 38.8 billion Kip in 1995. Average provincial GDP per capita increased from US$ 121 in
1990 to US$ 192.3 in 1995. However, even with this large increase, it is still only about 65% of
national average. In 1995, the value of aid projects accounted for 4.06% of the total provincial
income (ESCAP/UNDP June 1996).
(i) Domesfic and Foreign Investment. After the introduction of the free market economy,
rapid expansion took place in the province. The number of companies registered reached 910 in 1996,
an increase of 63.5% compared to 1991. The value of domestic investment was US$ 2.9 million



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 23                    Title: Provincial lnfrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
between 1994 and 1996. The major investment was in trade and construction with 65% and 30%
respectively. Investment in logging activities was about 3% and the other minor investment was in
manufacturing, and transport. According to the Foreign Investment Management Committee, the
value of direct and foreign joint venture investment for the last five years was about US$ 1.53
million. About 55% of the total investment was in hotel services owned by Chinese companies. A
joint venture in the construction and transport sector represents 29% of investment and a Vietnamese
investment in import-export sector represents 13% of the investment.
(ii) Trade. In 1996, the value of exports increased to Kip 1,267 million, almost 5 times the
figure for 1993. The main exports were forest products with 83.3 % of the total export value, of
which non-timber forest products were about 33.2 %. Agricultural products represented 15.3 % of
the total exports. The value of imports and exports of Oudomxay province for the past five years are
given in Table 1.2, and the principal imports and exports in 1996 by categories are in Table 1.3. This
does not include some border trade with China and Thailand done by population at its border towns
which went unrecorded. Although there is no official record, provincial authorities acknowledge that
border trade is another important sources of income for its population.
Table 1.2: Imports and Exports of Oudomxay Province (Unit: million Kip)
Country           1993               1994               1995               1996
Import   Export  Import  Export  Import  Export  Import  Export
Thailand       186        19      320       38      372        44        84      809
China          244      227       503      490      539       540       738      454
Vietnam         71       24        49       25       61         6         0        4
Total        501      270      872       553      972      590        822    1,267
Source: Department of Trade, Oudomxay Province
Table 1.3: Principal Imports and Exports of Oudomxay Province in 1996 by Categories
(million Kip)
Import Categories     Value   Percent        Export Categories        Value    Percent
Food Products              30       3.7    Logs                           705      55.6
Household Items            25       3.0    RubberlIron/Tin/Glass Scraps     2       0.2
Office Supply               I       0.1    Agriculture product            194       15.3
Equipment                 160      19.5    Rattan/Bamboo/                   I       0.1
Furniture
Construction Materials    367      44.7    Non-Timber Forest Products     350      27.6
Vehicle and Parts        239       29.1    Medicinal Items                          0
Live Animals                   15        1.2
Total            822     100.0                                 1,267      100.0
Source: Trade Department Oudomxay province, May 1997



Project Appraisal Document              Page 24                ritle: Provincial Infrastructure Prect
Country: Lao PDR
(iii) Tourisnm It was estimated that an average of 10 tourists per day pass through Pak Beng.
Most of them travel up or down the Mekong river between Luang Prabang and Bokeo. Only a few
travel up the road to Oudomxay and then on, presumably to Phongsaly or Luang Namtha. These
tourists must return to Luang Prabang either by road or river (e.g. down the Ou River from Ban Hatxa
or Muang Khoua, in Phongsaly province). The national tourism growth target for 1995 - 2000 is 18%
per year. However, given the lack of infrastructure, growth in the north is likely to be less.
(iv) Mining. Lignite and zinc mining in Namo district of Oudomxay may be possible if the
road infrastructure is improved to permit export of these products to China or to Thailand via Pak
Beng. The scale of these proposed developments is not known. A Chinese company has also
recently signed a contract to construct and operate a cement factory in Namo district.
4.    LAND TENURE. In Oudomxay, in general, existing paddy fields and homestead lands in the
district headquarters and in some permanent established villages have already been registered. On
these lands, taxes are being collected. Oudomxay province has started implementing land allocation
in some areas with the guidelines of the Land Use Planning and Land Allocation Support Team of the
central government. However, hills and uplands have not been registered. Village land in Oudomxay
can be classified into four categories:
* paddy field under private ownership
* other privately-owned land (orchard, bamboo garden and sugar cane plots)
* grass land and degraded forest (rainfed rice fields in the hills)
* village owned forest.
All villagers know exactly how much land is under rice cultivation because the collection of
land tax is largely based on rice production area. The village headmen do not, for the most part,
know the area of other agricultural land owned by families.
In the lowland areas, homestead land, paddy fields and gardens are mainly owned by the old
residents who are mostly Lao Lum. These plots of land are registered with the village authorities or
the villagers know who are the owners. The new comers, who are mainly Hmong and Khmu, can
buy or develop the new land for cultivation and register it with the village authorities. These plots of
land can be inherited and sold. As mentioned above, the Province has started land allocation of flat
lands to the landless farmers and the new settlers. These plots of land cannot be sold but can be
inherited. If, after three years, the owners do not develop their plots of land, the local authorities
might take it and give it to other farmers.
In the new irrigation schemes, land use planning and land allocation have not been
implemented yet. However, villagers are allowed to practice shifting cultivation only in the degraded
forest land and villagers who have enough paddy field (on average one hectare per family) are not
permitted to carry out shifting cultivation. Though population density in Oudomxay province is
relatively light, there is significant demographic pressure to increase both paddy rice and rainfed
upland rice fields.
In the upland areas, villagers own only homestead land and some fruit trees grown around the
village. They do not legally own land for shifting cultivation, but if villagers in the communities
want to slash new upland fields, they have to ask permission from the farmer who has cultivated that
plot of land previously.



Project Appraisal Document             Page 25                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
5.    GENDER ANALYSIS AMONG ETHNIC POPULATION. Gender analysis can significantly increase
efficiency, sustainability and equity in interventions for rural development. It can help ensure
provision of services that men and women want and that are appropriate to their circumstances. This
requires an understanding of men's and women's roles in the household and economic activities by
analyzing quantitative and qualitative information on activities, resources, constraints, benefits and
incentives.
There are more than 210,000 people in about 16 ethnic groups living in Oudomxay province
and more than 50% are women. The majority of people are settled along roadsides, riversides,
valleys, and water sources throughout the province. These ethnic groups have similar economic
activities. However, there are some differences in livelihood and living standards between people
who live in the lowlands and highlands and between people who live in urban and remote rural areas.
In the urban areas both men and women are found in the Government structure. The largest
percentage of women is mainly to be found in the education and health departments. However, at the
province and district offices, female government officers are a minority compared with men. As a
result, male govemment officers might overlook the importance of gender issues when making
policies and decisions. In the private sector such as hotels and tourism, restaurants, shops and
markets, women occupy a large proportion of the sector. Men are usually found as taxi drivers,
house builders, carpenters, masons and metal workers. As many women are involved in the
economic activities in the urban areas, those women also have power in controlling and making
decisions in the finance and management of the household chores and expenditure. Many women in
the urban areas are elected to be head of the communities. According to the information from the
district authorities, female village heads can work more effectively than the opposite sex. They can
see the needs of gender and do not overlook the needs and constraints of the women.
In the remote rural areas women work harder and longer than men. They generally take care
of all household chores and field work. They are responsible for taking care of children, cleaning and
washing, gathering fuel wood, fetching water, animal husbandry and home-gardening. Sometimes
men and boys help only in looking after the children, collecting fire wood and cooking. The main
economic activity is shifting cultivation, which is mainly rice production and intercropping with
other vegetables such as chilli, squash, cucumber, melon, pumpkin, corn, and sesame for food
subsistence and generating some income. In rice production, women shoulder a larger burden of the
work including the planting, weeding, harvesting, some threshing and transporting. Men do what is
generally regarded as heavy work such as felling trees, clearing new fields, tilling new rice paddy,
ploughing, harrowing, preparing seed beds and threshing. However, in some circumstances there are
slight differences between regions, ethnic groups, villages and even households. In the case of opium
addiction of the husband, the wife would have to take care of most of the household and field work,
and shoulder the burden of her addicted husband.
Women's access to and control over productive resources, such as land and finance or human
capital resources such as education, knowledge, time, and mobility, is partially determined by her
ethnicity. The Lao Lum women control all financial expenditure of the household and have
hereditary rights to land although men usually handle legal aspects of these rights. The ethnic
minority women can control and keep small amounts that they earn from selling small items of on-
farm products, handicrafts and non-timber forest products while the men do the trading of large items



Project Appraisal Document            Page 26               Title: Provindal lnfastructure Projed
Country: Lao PDR
such as selling animals, rice, etc. Depending on the literacy level and mutual decisions, the ethnic
minority men play the important role in family savings.
In many communities, the majority of village authority members are men with only Lao
Women's Union (LWU) representing women's voice in the village. Women rarely participate in
village meetings where men and the authorities discuss village affairs or plan some development
activities such as water supply and irrigation. However, in the community women are the main
decision-makers for the implementation of projects. They make the decisions about labor or any kind
of contribution to the construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes and water
supply systems. Thus, women should be approached and encouraged to participate in the whole
process of the planning and implementation of projects.
Khmu families (58% of the Province) have bilateral structures in which women and men can
inherit and keep their identities. Khmu women, however, share less household financial and decision
making power with their spouses than Phuane women do. Khmu women perform 60-70% of the
long-term, tedious agricultural labor while men perform the arduous short-term tasks. Men and
women share child care, foraging and some food preparation tasks, but only women fetch water, cut
and carry fire wood, the arduous daily chores.
In the Hmong communities (13% of the Province), women work harder and longer than men
do. In shifting cultivation, with the exception of burning and fencing, women work shoulder to
shoulder with their husband in slashing, clearing undergrowth, planting and harvesting. Women are
also mainly responsible for weeding and transporting the harvest, while the men are occupied with
hunting. Besides field work, Hmong women take care of all household chores. They are responsible
for taking care of the children, gathering fire wood, fetching water, cleaning the house, washing,
cooking and home gardening. The Hmong women have no rights to control land and other capital.
They can only control and keep the small amount of money that they earn from selling embroidery,
vegetables and non-timber forest products while the men do all the trading of big items such as
selling rice. Hmong women rarely participate in the community development activities due to their
illiteracy and language problems in communicating with the government staff, who are mostly Lao
Lum.
The Phuane communities, which are part of the Lao Lum ethnic group (9% of the Province),
also have bilateral family structures. The elder men head the households. Within the Phuane
household, and to some degree within the village domain, young women rarely gain authority at a
young age, but may attain authority with age. All adults can participate in extra household decision
making, own property, inherit and distribute land and wealth and buy and sell goods. Men and
women share fairly equally the amount of farm labor, but usually have different tasks.



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 27                    Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
6.     PROVINCIL REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES. Revenues and expenditures of the provincial
governments for the fiscal years 1994-95 to 1996-971 is summarized in Table 1.4. The provinces are
dependent on the central government for a large proportion of their budgetary requirements. The
information available from the provincial authorities and the National Budget Plan from the Ministry of
Finance could not be reconciled and the data given is largely based on the National Budget Plan.
Table 1.4: Revenue and Expenditure of Oudomxay Province (Unit: Million Kip)
Description                1994-95              1995-96              1996-97
Amount       %      Amount       %       Amount       %
I.  Revenue Total                 2,436     100.0      3,270    100.0      3,509    100.0
Transfers from Center         2,070      85.0      2,817     86.1       1,791     51.0
Local                          366       15.0       453       13.9      1,718     49.0
Profit Tax (companies)          42        1.7         50       1.5       223       6.4
Income Tax                      68        2.8        70       2.1         25       0.7
Land Tax                        59        2.4        48        1.5        72       2.1
Business Licenses                                     4       0.1          6       0.2
Turn Over Tax                   68        2.8        111       3.4       396      11.3
Excise Tax                        3       0.1          4       0.1        17       0.5
Natura]L Resources Duties         8       0.3         10       0.3          5      0.1
Import Tax                      20        0.8         19       0.6       310       8.8
Export Tax                       7        0.3        62        1.9       157       4.5
Registration Tax                  3       0.1          6       0.2        14       0.4
Other Misc.                       8       0.3          8       0.2        57       1.6
Other Revenue                   80        3.3        61        1.9       436      12.4
II. Expenditure Total              870      100.0      1,436    100.0         n/a
1. Administration              290       33.3       241       16.8        n/a
2. Infrastructure              431       49.5       861      60.0         n/a
Ag. & Forestry               64        7.4       496       34.5        n/a
Ag & Forestry               64       7.4       233       16.2        n/a
Rural Dev.                                     263       18.3        n/a
Industry & Handicraft                               7       0.5        n/a
Communication                26        3.0       358      24.9         n/a
Trade                       341       39.2                             n/a
3. Culture and Society          149      17.1       334       23.3        n/a
Education                     82       9.4        118       8.2        n/a
Health                       55        6.3        94        6.5        n/a
Culture                       12       1.4        62        4.3        n/a
Social Security                                   60       4.2         n/a
Source: National Budget Plan, Ministry of Finance, and Provincial Government Finance Department.
Notes:  1) Estimates for 1996-97.
2) Expenditure figures are incomplete.
1/ The data comes both directly and indirectly from the Ministry of Finance and the respective
provincial Finance Departrnents and may not be free of inconsistencies.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 28                Tille: Provindal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(i) Provincial Revenue In Oudomxay, over the last five years, transfers from the central
government have varied between 55 and 85% of total provincial revenues. In the most recent year, the
major local sources of provincial revenues have been direct taxes on business, land and personal
incomes and indirect taxes, which include various sales taxes, duties on natural resources and duties on
imports and exports. Of these two sources, direct taxes are of declining relative importance. Total
indirect taxes appear to be increasing in relative importance and there was an increase of about 94% in
1995-96 compared to the figure in 1994-95 (106 million Kip). Total trade tax has constituted
consistently over 90% of total indirect taxes in the past 4 years . In contrast, land taxes (which include
taxes on agriculture) constitute less than 2% of total provincial revenues in all years.
The contribution of foreign aid funds to provincial resources has been significant, averaging
some 25% of public investment over the past six years, ranging widely though from a low of 2% in
1992-93 to a high of 75% in 1993-94. Most of this investment has been in the agriculture and
communication sectors.
(id) Provincial Expenditures. In 1996 Oudomxay spent about 241 million Kip, which was
about 17% of the total expenditure (1,436 million Kip), on administration, which included salary for all
the 1,900 government employees. Taking into account that the average salary of the government staff is
35,000 Kip, Oudomxay needs to spend more than 67 million Kip to cover only salary. The provincial
expenditure for infrastructure was between 50 to 60% in the last two years, of which 43% was for rural
development and communication.
Table 1.5 gives a summary of the Public Investment Program for Oudomxay for the last five
years. These expenditures are principally for capital investment. The program includes items funded
from the central budget and thus cannot be directly reconciled with the provincial budget. The largest
expenditures are for Communication, Transport, Post and Construction, and Agriculture, Forestry and
Irrigation. These are assumed to be for roads, irrigation systems and other major infrastructure items.
7.    ON-GOING AND PLANNED PROJECTS. According to the Rural Development Committee of
Oudomxay province, the UNDP and other donors, Oudomxay is currently being assisted by numerous
relatively small externally funded projects, most of which are in the agriculture and social sectors as
below:
(i) BilateralAgencies
* The Chinese government provided a soft loan of US$ 4.0 million for the construction of a 1.5 MW
hydropower station, which has now been operational since December 1997.
* The Australian government provided financial support of about US$ 17,000 in 1997 for income
generating activities, school construction in Houn district and building of premises in Namo and Pak
Beng hospitals.
* The Japanese government funded the construction of 2 schools in Xay and Houn, building of
premises and provision of instruments to the provincial hospital and construction of rural roads in
Xay District.
*   GTZ plans a non-formal education and strengthening of the vocational training center project for
1997-2004.
* The Government of New Zealand is preparing to support a rural development project, which is
expected to be implemented in 1998.
* SIDA is proposing to fund the construction of rural roads in Nga and five other districts.
* The Thai government is assisting the province in the health sector.



Table 1.5: Summary of Public Investment, Oudomxay Province, 1991 - 1996
(Unit: million Kip)
l                  l                ~~~~~~~~                 ~~                ~~~1991-92    1992-93                       1993-94l
||Total  |Central  Provincial  Foreign    Total    Central  Provincial  Foreign      Total    Central  Provincial   Foreign
Sector                       Government  Funds        Aid               Government  Funds        Aid               Government  Funds        Aid
Fund                Funds                 Funds                Funds                 Funds                 Funds
Agriculture, Forestry and Irrigation  3.36     1.75      0.31       1.30      4.25       2.75       1.50               1,348.60    73.10     123.23    1,152.28
Industry-Handicraft              188.54      188.54                          10.95       6.00                 4.95       12.83     12.83
Communication, Transport, Post &  113.21     76.34      20.12      16.75     88.66      87.79       0.87                 30.69     30.69
Construction
Education                         78.22       19.08      5.41     53.73      19.90      18.30       1.60                 18.59      2.52      16.08
Health                            48.07       15.57      1.00     31.50      28.53      28.53
Information-Cultural               --0.70                                                                                           0.70
Labor and Social welfare          44.75      44.75                           85.00      85.00                           121.50    121.50
Premises
Human Resource Development
Rural Development
TOTAL                    476.14     346.02      26.84    103.28    237.30        228.37     3.98      4.95    1,532.92    241.34     139.31    1,152.28
1994-95                                    1995-96                                    1996-97
Sector               Total    Central  Provincial  Foreign      Total    Central  Provincial Foreign Aid   Total    Central  Provincial   Foreign
Government  Funds       Aid               Government  Funds       Funds              Government  Funds         Aid
Funds               Funds                Funds                                      Funds                 Funds
Agriculture, Forestry and Irrigation    145.37  115.50  10.16      19.71     512.28    247.56               264.72      339.90    324.40                  15.50
Industry-Handicraft                5.00        5.00                          259.00    259.00                           325.80    325.80
Communication, Transport, Post &  616.40    325.40               291.00    1,195.60    995.60               200.00      866.30    866.30
Construction
Education                         62.25       57.00                 5.25     142.91     90.50                52.41      143.00    143.00
Health                            30.00       30.00                           94.00     94.00                           115.00    101.00                  14.00
Information-Cultural                                                          61.95     61.95                            68.00     68.00
Labor and Social welfare         197.96      190.96                 7.00      68.00     68.00                            51.00     51.00
Premises                                                                     104.00    104.00                           378.00    378.00
Human Resource Development
Rural Development                                                            336.00    336.00                           441.00    366.00                 75.00
TOTAL                  1,056.97     723.85      10.16    322.96    2,773.74   2,256.61              517.13    2,728.00  2,623.50                104.50
Source: UNDP project document LAO/97/002



Project Appraisal Document              Page 30                Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(ii) International FinancialAgencies
*  ADB is involved in the construction and equipment of 16 health centers all around the province and
training of medical staff with a budget of US$ 1.4 million.
*  IDA is involved in the education sector through its teacher training program and curriculum
reform program (through central level implementation).
(iii) Non-Governmental Organizations
*  Church World Service is upgrading school facilities and teachers' skills and supports vocational
training for ethnic minorities.
*  Enfant d'Ailleurs is involved in the health sector with a budget of US$ 200,000. They will focus on
the establishment of health centers in several districts and training of medical staff of these centers.
*  Ecole Sans Frontiere in collaboration with UNDP is providing teaching materials for schools in La
and Xay districts.
*  Japan Sotoshu Relief Committee is involving in the rehabilitation of primary schools in the province.
*  IUCN is implementing a project on non-timber forest products and forest conservation with a budget
of US$ 0.8 million.
(iv) UnitedNationsAgencies
-  UNDP/UNCDF is funding the Eco Development Project in Oudomxay province with a budget of US$
4.5 million in 5 years.
-  The UNDP/ILO IRAP project assists the province in planning of small-scale rural infrastructure,
following an assessment of rural communities' needs through applying a participatory planning
approach with a budget of about US$ 250,000.
*  The UNDP/FAO Aquaculture Extension Project will be implemented from 1997 to 1999 with an
estimated budget of US$ 150,000 for the province.
*  UNDP is supporting the Strengthening Economic Management and Rural Development Capacity
project from 1997 to 2001 with a budget of US$ 1.1 million.
*  UNDP/UNCDF will support the Micro Finance project (1997 - 2002) with a budget of US$2.7 million
*  UNDP is going to support the Income Generation Activities Project from 1997 to 2001 with a budget
of about US$ 1.0 million.
*  UNICEF is supporting the Extended Program for Immunization and Mother and Child Health
Program through the Ministry of Public Health and rural water supply systems and sanitation through
Nam Saat.
*  UTNDP is supporting non-formal education in six villages where community centers have been built.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 31                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 1.2: Provincial Profile of Phongsaly Province
1.    LOCATION. Phongsaly is one of the poorest provinces in Lao PDR. It is located in the most
northern part of the country, bordering China on its northern and western boundaries, with Vietnam
to the East. To the South are the provinces of Luang Namtha and Oudomxay. The province is
divided into 7 districts and more than 650 villages. The total area is about 16,270 square kilometers,
of which more than 90% is mountainous. According to the provincial government, shifting
cultivation areas are about 26,000 ha and wet paddy cultivation averages around 5,000 ha. The total
forest area of the province is 6,671 km2 with an annual allowable cut of 1,000 m3.
2.    DEMOGRAPHY. According to the 1995 population census, Phongsaly had a population of
about 152,820, of which about 76,870 were females. The population is comprised of more than
twenty ethnic groups of which eight ethnic minorities are found only in this province; they are
Phunoi, Hor, Lao Bit, Hai Gni, Kheu, Sila, Lolo and Lao Seng. The majority of the population in this
province is Khmu, Akha and Phunoi, which represent 24.4%, 20.0% and 19.4% of the total
inhabitants, respectively. About 8.9% and 5.3% are Leu and Phuthai. The Lao Lum represent only
4.3% while the Hor represent 4.7% of the total population. The population density is about 9 persons
per square kilometer. According to the Lao Basic Statistics '95, the natural population growth of the
province is 1.0 %, which is very low compared to national averages. This figure is in fact based on
the difference between the birth and the death rates of the province and does not include any in or
out-migration. Due to its isolation and lack of access to the rest of the country for about 6 months of
a year, many people have migrated to the neighboring provinces and Vientiane municipality,
although the province was once the capital of Lao during the revolutionary period. Table 1.6 shows
the population distribution in Phongsaly province.
Table 1.6:    Population Distribution in Phongsaly Province - 1996
Districts              Popul ation              Household
Total           % F            Number
Phongsaly             25,627          51.2             4,599
Mai                   22,975          51.0             3,663
Khoua                 28,231          51.0             4,891
Samphanh              25,151          50.0             3,890
Boun Neua             14,057          48.6             2,393
Yod Ou                24,253          49.7             3,269
Boun Tai              12,496          49.8             2,128
TOTAL            152,820          50.3            24,833
Sources: Lao Census 1995: Phonesalv Province
3.    ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES. Due to its isolation, the limited amount of flat land available in most
areas for development of paddy fields, the limited access to markets and limited knowledge of
market trends, the production of this province is largely subsistence oriented. Agriculture and the
gathering of non-timber forest products are the principal economic activities of its population. Over
90% of the provincial GDP comes from agro-forestry. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, the value of agricultural production in 1995 was estimated to be approximately US$100-
120 per capita.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 32                   Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(i) Agriculture Production. Agriculture is the principal economic activity of the population in
the project areas. Access to markets is an important stimulus to production. Data gathered during the
field studies indicated that farmers in the project areas are likely to respond positively to better market
opportunities. Land in the northern half of the province (bordering China) was known to be fertile and
have high potential for agriculture development. It produces surplus paddy for the southern half ofthe
province and, in some good year, for export to China. However, currently there is no road access from
the capital town of Phongsaly to its north except on foot. Therefore border trade with China seems to
be convenient and less costly than with the hinterland of its own country. Better roads will improve
physical access to markets, both domestic and international, reduce transportation costs and improve the
competitiveness of products in the marketplace.
(ii) Industry and Commerce. Industry and commerce in Phongsaly is still mostly limited to
small-scale enterprises. The largest industry is the timber mill in Ban Yo. In 1994, Phongsaly
province had a total of 105 registered small (less than 10 employees) industrial and handicraft
establishments and no medium or large units. Foreign investment was not reported in Phongsaly
province. Recently, the provincial authority has encouraged a Chinese investment in a sugar-
processing factory. The villagers have started to grow sugar cane for the factory. It is expected that
the factory will be established when there is sufficient sugar cane to supply the factory. Presently, the
farmers sell the sugar cane across border to China.
(iii) Trade. Trade between Phongsaly, Thailand and China has grown significantly in recent
years as indicated in Tables 1.7 and 1.8. The most significant exports are forest products which
represent about 91% of the total exports. These figures in fact do not include the amounts of routine
border trading undertaken by the small traders and villagers living along the borders. Non timber forest
products are the most significant goods for border trading. Imports are principally vehicles and
construction materials, which represent 58% and 24% of imports, respectively. All these goods are
transported by road and river, although some will travel partly to or from Thailand via Pak Beng and the
Mekong river. Upgraded roads will facilitate trade by reducing the cost of transporting goods.
Table 1.7: Imports and Exports of Phongsaly Province
(Unit: million Kip)
Country          1993               1994               1995               1996
Import   Export  Import   Export  Import   Export  Import   Export
Thailand     570       242      107        0          1     152       n/a       n/a
China        529       127      516      483      1,271     250       n/a       n/a
Vietnam       100      136        7        5         15      27       n/a       n/a
Total     1,199      505      630      488      1,286     428       n/a       n/a
Source: Department of Trade, Phongsaly Province



Project Appraisal Document               Page 33                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Table 1.8: Principal Imports and Exports of Phongsaly Province in 1997 by Categories
(Unit: US$'000)
Import Categories         Value   Percent     Export      Value   Percent
Categories
Construction materials & electrical goods    165  24.3  NTFP        526       91.3
Vehicles and parts                   395     58.1       Others       50        8.7
Luxury goods                         23       3.4
Clothing items                       24       3.5
Medicines and medical instruments    0.3      0.0
Stationery                           11       1.6
NTFP                                   0      0.0
Food Items                            61      9.0
Total                         679    100.0                   576      100.0
Source: Ministry of Trade
4.    LAND TENURE. The situation is similar to that in Oudomxay (see paragraph 4 of Annex 1A).
5.    GENDER ANALYSIS. Phongsaly is the most remote province of Lao PDR, and as such
receives limited development support from both the central government and international donors.
Gender issues are almost unknown for the provincial officials including LWU. Although the
provincial LWU has had some training from the central level on gender issues, they still have severe
limitations in disseminating this due to their capacity, their limited budget and the accessibility
difficulties within the province.
In the government structure women are concentrated largely in the education and health
sectors but they do not dominate the key positions. Except for the LWU, women across the province
are relegated to the bottom of the administrative rungs. The majority of them are locked into menial
and temporary slots, and thus have no security and or prospect of advancement.
In the proposed project area, with the exception of Yod Ou district, men are usually found as
taxi and truck drivers, house builders, carpenters, masons, and metal workers. Many women are
involved in the economic activities of the families such as barter trading, trading in the markets and
shops, running restaurants and guest houses. As a result, those women have influence in making
decisions within the family and the community and have power in controlling the finance of the
family. The majority of the ethnic groups that will benefit from the irrigation and water supply
projects are Lue and Hor and from the road projects are Phunoi, Akha and Khmu.
In the Lue communities, both women and men carry out agriculture activities, while only the
men do the ploughing, harrowing and manage the water. Men do the fishing and hunting which is
less important, while women do the gathering of insects, maggots, grubs, greens and wild fruits for
household consumption and cardamom, posa (tree bark) and stick laque for generating income. In
the households, Lue women do most of the household chores including collecting of fire wood, men
sometimes play nursemaid while the women are off trading in the nearby village market. Lue



Project Appraisal Document              Page 34                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
County: Lao PDR
women are active traders in the village markets. A married Lue women is economically independent
of her husband, and is free to make her own decision and living if she wants to. The status of the Lue
women in their community is relatively high. They are members of the village committee, take part
in the village meetings, they are confident, open minded and can express freely their needs and
priorities. In the family, all children have the right to inherit equally regardless of sex and or
seniority, with the exception that the house and its compound goes to the oldest married child still
residing with the parents at the time of their death.
In the Phunoi communities in general, women and men share the agricultural work, they are
permanent swidden agriculturists. Both men and women do the slashing, clearing undergrowth,
planting rice, intercropping, weeding, harvesting and transporting. Only the men do the burning,
fencing and building small huts in the swidden fields. The women and girls take care of the pigs and
poultry, gather fire wood, edible roots and leaves, and fish with basket nets while men and boys look
after the cattle and buffalo, do the hunting and fishing with cast nets. Household chores tend to be
women's alone. Men do the barter trading and saving money. Inheritance of property is patrilineal.
Failing sons or grandsons, brother, brothers' sons and first cousins may inherit. A widow is entitled
to maintenance from her husband's property until her remarriage or death. The sons share the landed
properties equally. Women rarely take part in village meetings. Even though there is a
representative of the LWU on the village committee, she has no influence in making decisions of any
village affairs.
The Hor ethnic group is the Yunnanese hill farmers and traders resident in Phongsaly
province. They are living in mixed villages with other ethnic groups. They are not represented in the
village committees and rarely attend village meetings. Both men and women are mostly engaged in
trade and much of the domestic work is carried out by women and girls or by hired servants. The
Hor cultivate only just enough to supply their immediate needs. A married Hor women is
economically independent of her husband and is free to make her own decisions. In the family, all
children have the right to inherit equally regardless of sex and or seniority.
6.    PROVINCIAL REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES.
(i) Provincial Revenue. Phongsaly is more dependent on transfers from the central government
than is Oudomxay. It is also one of the focal provinces of the govemment policy for rural development
in the past two years. The transfers from the central government contributed between 77% and 85% of
provincial revenues for the years under review. Direct and indirect taxes are also the most important
local sources of revenue, however indirect taxes have increased more consistently in absolute terns than
has been the case in Oudomxay. In Phongsaly, trade taxes appear to be a smaller part of total indirect
taxes than in Oudomxay, although it is increasingly important in the recent years (Table 1.9). The
percentage of trade tax to total indirect taxes increased from about 57% in 1992 to more than 90% in
1994 onward. As in Oudomxay, land taxes (which include agricultural taxes) are only a minor source
of revenue and the highest proportion of revenue contributed by foreign aid funds was 1.5% in 1995-96.
(iU) Provincial Expenditures. The dominant feature of provincial expenditure is the spending
on infrastructure, which has been over 80% of total expenditure in the last two years, although it was
less in the earlier years. This is because of the recent major investment in provincial access (Pak
Namnoy - Ban Yor). This about 1 00km of road is the first road access connecting the capital of
Phongsaly province to the rest of the country through Oudomxay. In approximate terms, the Phongsaly
provincial budget is at present divided about 2:1 between capital and administrative expenditures. In



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 35                   Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
1995-96 Phongsaly spent about 12% of the total expenditure (292 million Kip) on administration, which
included salary for all the 1,860 government employees. Taking into account that the average salary of
the government staff is 35,000 Kip, Phongsaly needs to spend more than 65 million Kip to cover
salaries alone.
The summary of the Public Investment Program is given in Table 1.10. The principal items are
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction as well as Health and Education. Foreign funding
increased significantly in 1996/97 to about 42% of total public investment. Most of this investment has
been in the education and health sectors.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 3B                    Title: Provincial Infrastructre Project
Country: Lao PDR
Table 1.9: Revenue and Expenditure of Phongsaly Province
(Unit: million Kip)
Description               1994-95            1995-96             1996-97
Amount    %        Amount      %      Amount       %
I. Revenue
Total                    3,202    100.0     4,370    100.0      6,436    100.0
Transfers from Centre'1         2,797     87.4     3,880      88.8     5,457      84.8
Local                             405     12.6       490      11.2       979      15.2
Profit Tax (companies)                     0.0         9       0.2        37       0.6
Income Tax                         45      1.4        43       1.0        89       1.4
Land Tax'1                         66      2.1        69       1.6        79       1.2
Business Licences                   I      0.0                 0.0         I       0.0
Turn Over Tax                      68      2.1        68       1.6       221       3.4
Excise Tax                                 0.0                 0.0        17       0.3
Natural Resources Duties]/          I      0.0        15       0.3        12       0.2
Import Tax'1                       64      2.0       118       2.7       370       5.7
Export Tax-L                       27      0.8        19       0.4         4       0.1
Registration Tax'                   6      0.2        16       0.4        27       0.4
Other Misc.                        20      0.6        29       0.7        24       0.4
Other Revenue-1                   107      3.3       104       2.4        98       1.5
II. Expenditure
Total                    2,173    100.0     2,700    100.0        n/a
Administration                    198      9.1       292      10.8        n/a
Infrastructure                  1,825     84.0      2,171     80.4        n/a
Ag. & Forestry                    100      4.6       299      11.1        n/a
Ag & Forestry                   100       4.6      299      11.1        n/a
Rural Dev.                                0.0                0.0        n/a
Industry & Handicraft                      0.0        16       0.6        n/a
Communication                   1,725     79.4      1,856     68.7        n/a
Trade                                      0.0                 0.0        n/a
Culture and Society               150      6.9       237       8.8        n/a
Education                          95      4.4        76       2.8        n/a
Health                             55      2.5       131       4.9        n/a
Culture                                    0.0        30       1.1        n/a
Social Security                            0.0                 0.0       n/a
Source: National Budget Plan, Ministry of Finance, and Provincial Government Finance Departnent.
Notes: 1) Estimates for 1996-97.



Table 1.10: Summary of Public Investment, Phongsaly Province, 1991 - 1996
(Unit: million Kip)
|            .                  ~~~~~~~~                ~~                ~~1991-92    1992-93                       1993-94l
Total    Central | Provincial  Foreign {  Total    Central  Provincial  Foreign     Total    Central  Provincial   Foreign
Sector                    Government  Funds        Aid              Government  Funds       Aid               Government  Funds         Aid
Fund                Funds                Funds                Funds                Funds                 Funds
Agriculture, Forestry and   41.04      41.04                            8.77      7.99                 0.78      103.84     28.77                 75.07
Irrigation
Industry-Handicraft         16.74       16.74                           4.59      4.59                             0.12      0.12
Communication, Transport,   62.58      62.58                           67.64     67.64                            80.13     80.13
Post & Construction
Education                  115.73       14.19               101.54     70.40     70.40                            32.65     25.00                  7.65
Health                      31.13      22.00                  9.13     25.30     22.00                 3.30       99.51     66.54                 32.97
Information-Cultural         2.50       2.50                           8.50       8.50                             --        --
Labor and Social welfare      --        --                              --        --                               --        --
Premises                    64.53      64.53                          107.29    107.29                            74.00     74.00
Human Resource Development    --
Rural Development            --
TOTAL              334.25     223.58                110.67    292.49    288.41                 4.08      390.25    274.56                115.69
1994-95                                   1995-96                                   1996-97
Sector            Total    Central  Provincial  Foreign     Total    Central  Provincial Foreign Aid   Total     249.00   Provincial   Foreign
Government  Funds       Aid               Government  Funds     Funds                           Funds        Aid
Funds               Funds                Funds                                                          Funds
Agriculture, Forestry and   157.23      80.37                76.86     121.62     89.50               32.12      265.69    324.40                 16.69
Irrigation
Industry-Handicraft          12.21      12.21                           --        --                              10.00     10.00
Communication, Transport,    968.15    968.15                        1,762.20   1,762.22                       1,986.00   1,986.00
Post & Construction
Education                   47.36       41.08                 6.29     249.72    149.74               99.98      198.38     76.00                122.38
Health                      87.11       59.66                27.46     187.19    116.65               70.55      219.26    130.00                 89.26
Information-Cultural          --         --                             --        --                              66.00     66.00
Labor and Social welfare      --         --                                      201.27                            --        --
Premises                    92.62       92.62                          201.27    104.00                          183.00    183.00
Human Resource Development
Rural Development                                                      336.00    336.00                        1,953.00              113.00    1,840.00
TOTAL             1,364.68    1,254.08              110.60    2,522.02   2,319.37            202.65    4,881.32  2,700.00    113.00    2,068.32
Source: UNDP project document LAO/97/002



Project Appraisal Document          Page 38            TItle: Provincal lnfrastructure Projec
Country: Lao PDR
7.    ON-GOING AND PLANNED PROJECTS. Phongsaly province has been largely by-passed by
external donors' development programs mainly because of access difficulties. Assistance from
external donors only available recently. Most of these investtnent are in agriculture and social
sectors. According to the provincial authorities and information from several donors, the types
of foreign assistance to the province are indicated below.
(f) Bilateral agencies
*   FINNIDA is supporting the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in forest management in
six provinces, including Phongsaly, with a total budget of about US$ 6 million for the six
provinces.
*   The Chinese government is providing the installation of two hydro-turbine units in
Phongsaly and Khoua districts with a budget of about US$ 308,000.
*   The Australian government is planning a health and social development with a budget of
US$ 7.8 million. The provincial authorities in Boun Neua, Boun Tai and Yod Ou districts
will implement the project.
(ii) International FinancialAgencies
*   ADB is involved in the construction of Phongsaly town water supply system with a budget
of US$ 662,000.
(1ii) Non-Governmental Organizations
*   CCL, which has had some small inputs into the health sector over recent years, is now
implementing a rural development project with EU funds of about US$6.5 million for 5
years. The activities include agriculture, development of animal husbandry, improvement
of cash crops and their marketing, water supply and small-scale irrigation systems
development, road construction and training.
- Church World Service is providing support for the education of ethnic minority students in
the remote areas, for small-scale agricultural activities and for upgrading school facilities.
*   Mennonite Central Committee has an integrated rural development project in Mai district
with a budget of US$220,000.
*   Save the Children Fund Australia is providing support to the LWU for rural women's
micro-credit initiative in 13 villages of five districts in the province with a budget of
US$ 9,118.
(iv) UnitedNationsAgencies
*   UNCDF is funding the Eco Development Project, which is mainly in Oudomxay province,
but also has some activities in Phongsaly. This project plans to support the development of
a small-scale irrigation system in Boun Tai district.
*   UNICEF is supporting the Extended Program for Immunization and Mother and the Child
Health Program through the Ministry of Public Health and rural water supply systems.



Projed Appraisal Document           Page 39            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 2
Project Description
The proposed project is designed to provide basic infrastructure to the two remote northern
provinces of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, and thus help the poor population in those isolated areas realize
their economic potential, raise their incomes, improve their standard of living and become integrated in
the national economy. The availability of necessary infrastructure would in turn facilitate investments by
other donors in additional resource development and social sector activities.
Due to a lack of resources and weak provincial institutions, the project design has been kept
relatively simple with selective geographical and sectoral coverage. It would include the following main
components:
*  Provision of basic transport infrastructure to ensure year-round access to local communities;
*  Provision of treated water supply to major towns;
* Provision of low cost rural water supply and sanitation and promote hygiene awareness to
rural communities; and
*  Capacity building and institutional strengthening
Project Component 1 - Transport Access - US$23.31 million (total cost of component including
contingencies)
Delivery of basic transport infrastructure including road rehabilitation and maintenance, an
airfield and a river crossing. It also includes the development of local private contractors to effectively
undertake small scale infrastructure civil works and to subsequently maintain them on a sustainable basis.
The transport infrastructure component will have the following sub-components:
-  Road rehabilitation and improvement;
D  Airfield;
*  Cable river crossing system;
*  Road maintenance and spot improvement activities; and
*  T/A and capacity building for road sector.
Project Sub-Components
(i) Road Rehabilitation and Improvements (US$ 16.52 m). The project would finance the
rehabilitation of about 279 km of roads in the two provinces as follows:
e Oudomxay Province:
Road No.2W  Between Muang Xai and Pakbeng                      139 km
Road No. 2E Between Muang Xai and Phongsaly provincial border   52 km
e Phongsaly Province:
Road No. 2E  Between Oudomxay provincial border and Muang Khoua   48 km
Road No.19 Between Boun Neua and Ban Pakha                      40 km



Project Appraisal Document            Page 40            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
The improvement strategy. Most trunk roads in northern Lao were constructed to a bituminous
paved standard over 20 years ago. The existing alignments, both horizontal and vertical are reasonable
and do not warrant changing. The bridges and culverts were all apparently built to withstand heavy loads
and appeared to be built with sound engineering, with only basic maintenance required. During the past
twenty years, when there were only light traffic loads on these roads, the lack of maintenance was not a
problem. However, due to the constant increase in traffic in recent years, these roads are now failing'
rapidly with major disintegration of the bituminous seal allowing water to penetrate and saturate the sub-
grade layers. They are now in a condition beyond the scope of patching and periodic repairs. The
roadside drainage in many areas is heavily silted and not functioning and is adding to the saturation
problem. The strategy undertaken under the project to rehabilitate and improve these roads to normal
service standard at the least cost is to repair each section to the extent of the damage. The condition of
each road section will be assessed and classified into one of the following three categories depending on
the state of the existing pavement at the time of repairs:
Category A-Patch Repair and Reseal. Apply where approximately 70% of existing bituminous
seal remains, the existing road has retained its shape, crossfall still exists and the seal coat is essentially
intact. The rehabilitation would consist of: (i) excavation of failed patches, sub-base and basecourse
replacement, compaction and resurfacing with double bituminous surface treatment (DBST); and (ii)
sealing of the remaining road surface with a single bituminous surface treatment (SBST).
Category B-Shape Correction, Overlay and Resurfacing. Apply where between 40 and 70%
of the existing seal remains and the underlying sub-base is still in sound condition, but the road has lost
its shape and has no crossfall. The rehabilitation would consist of: (i) excavation of failed patches;, sub-
base and basecourse replacement, compaction, shape correction with addition of basecourse; (ii)
overlaying with 10 cm compacted depth of basecourse the total road width; and (iii) resurfacing the total
road width with a DBST.
Category C-Full Reconstruction. Apply where less than 40% of the existing seal remains and
the pavement has failed in large sections. The rehabilitation would consist of: (i) scarifying, reshaping
and compaction of remaining sub-base and basecourse to form new sub-grade level; (ii) adding 20 cm as
new sub-base and 10 cm as basecourse on the total road width; and (iii) resurfacing the total road width
with a DBST.
Contract Preparation-Execution. The production of the contract document including detailed
designs for the road component of this project will be different than normally used. Actually, for low
volume roads, too much time and resources are often being spent on preparation of detailed designs and
surveying work at the expense of adequate levels of construction supervision and control on site. This
results in construction quality standards rarely being achieved in the field with a subsequent sub-standard
final product. Intensive levels of construction supervision by competent and experienced road engineers,
who can make decisions on site with the contractors, is far more effective than time spent on detailed
drawings and specifications. For this project, because the proposed works are relatively simple and do
not involve any realignment of the roads, the survey activities will be restricted to defining only the scale
of the works (lengths of road sections, locations of culverts etc.). Designs will be based on the standard
cross sections developed through the three categories outlined above, depending on existing road
conditions. The engineer and the contractor then make decisions on the most appropriate rehabilitation
strategies on site together. By linking the design and construction process much more directly in this
different approach, the focus is thus much more on the finished product and less on the process of survey



Project Appraisal Document            Page 41            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
and design and then construction.
(ii) Airfield (US$ 1.25m). The terrain in Phongsaly Province is mostly jungle-clad mountains
and there is little flat land or open valleys suitable for town sites, paddy cultivation, or airfields. There
are few roads in the province and no reliable direct road link with the rest of the country. There are no air
services to Phongsaly at the present time apart from irregular government or army helicopter charter for
administrative or defense purposes, and there is no operational airstrip in the province. One of the first
priority of the Government Minor Airports Program is therefore to rehabilitate the only existing airfield
in Phongsaly. This airfield is located in Boun Neua, 40 km west of the provincial capital Phongsalij
town. The Boun Neua airstrip was originally constructed by the French and was also used by the
American military prior to 1975. It is now unserviceable due to lack of maintenance. The strip is
situated on a flat area beside the Boun river. It is approximately 800 m long, with a 25 m wide runway in
a 40 m strip. Approximately 600 m of the runway had originally been paved with gravel material but it is
now grassed over. Rice fields have encroached onto the edges of the strip and there are a number of
buffalo wallows within the strip boundaries. The strip is suitable only for one-way operation, because of
a large hill situated immediately beyond the south-west end. A village obstructs the approach/take-off
area at the northeast end. Therefore this air strip would not be suitable for extension in the long term
future for safety reasons.
Consequently, the project would include the reconstruction of the airfield with a new alignment,
as recommended by two previous studies done by consulting firms (DORSCH Consult and NACO)
contracted by the MCTPC's Department of Civil Aviation (Site Evaluation Report Phongsaly Airport
August 1995 PH/GOOO 1 and Tender documents for upgrading Phongsaly Airport Volume 2, December
1996). A total length of around 900 m with a 18 m wide runway would be achievable. In conjunction
with the airfield construction, there will be a requirement for a 350m access road along the old runway
and a 800 m crossing over the Nam Boun river to the airport. Resettlement will not be necessary as there
is currently no housing on the alignment. Detailed designs and contract document are already existing.
They were prepared by a consultant with international expertise in 1996. The construction will be
implemented in two stages. A first stage will be to build only the strict minimum, i.e. runway without
aircraft parking, passenger terminal and control tower. Depending on the utilization of the airfield, the
second phase would mainly consist of constructing an aircraft parking and bituminous surface access
road.
(iii) Cable River Crossing System (US$0.22 m). The project would finance the construction of a
cable river crossing system in Muang Khoua in Phongsaly province. Following a devastating flood in
October 1996, the Nam Ou river destroyed the existing river crossing system linking Road No.2E. Since
then, traffic between the Northern part of the country with Vietnam has been interrupted. The system
would be designed with help of an international consultant.
(iv) Spot Improvement (US$ 0.54 m). As the roads included under the project will be
rehabilitated over a seven year period, the conditions of some sections may deteriorate substantially
before any rehabilitation works can be carried out. In order to prevent further deterioration of these
sections of road and prevent higher rehabilitation costs, the project would provide funds (US$ 0.22 m) to
help DCTPC of Oudomxay province to carry out spot emergency works along the roads selected under
the project. In addition, funds (US$0.30 m) would be provided to carry out construction and repairs of
drainage structures on Road No.2E between Muang Khoua and Taichang, the border town of Phongsaly
and Vietnam, which were damaged by an exceptional flooding in 1996. In conjunction with the
construction of the river crossing (see (iii) above), repairs to the drainage structures on Road No.2E will
help re-establish the road link with Vietnam.



Project Appraisal Document          Page 42             ritle: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(v) DCTPC Office Building (US$ 0.14 m). Apart from the capital investment in transport
infrastructure the project would finance the construction of an office and a laboratory building for the
DCTPC of Phongsaly.
(vi) Goods (US$ 1.2 m). Both provincial road administration (DCTPCs), especially that of
Phongsaly province, suffer from a severe shortage of transportation, soil testing control and office
equipment. Consequently, it is currently impossible for the DCTPCs to adequately control the quality of
their projects. Therefore, the project would finance necessary equipment to facilitate works supervision.
These include survey and soil quality control equipment, and vehicle and office supply for both DCTPCs.
In addition, it would finance an extra set of road maintenance equipment for Phongsaly DCTPC
(one loader, one excavator and two dump-trucks costing about US$ 0.6m). Contrary to Oudomxay, there
are currently no local contractors in Phongsaly. The province is completely dependent on Chinese and
Vietnamese contractors to carry out any kind of works. When emergency works are needed, the province
encounters major difficulties in mobilizing these foreign contractors. In recent years, the province tried
to encourage the creation of a local and private contracting industry. However, the encouragement alone
was not sufficient to attract private enterprise if the market prospect in the province was not good.
Therefore private enterprises gradually left Phongsaly for bigger markets in other provinces. In order to
help the province maintain and open its access year-round, the project would provide some minimum
equipment for such purpose. The project team obtained the confirmation from the provincial authorities
that they still have the human and financial resources to maintain this equipment. In sum, goods to be
financed under the road component includes:
*  Oudomxay                                                     US$ m
Survey and quality control equipment                      0.10
Vehicles (4WD pick-up, and motor-bikes 125cc)             0.07
Office supply (including computers, fax, photocopier)     0.05
D  Phongsaly                                                    US$ m
Maintenance equipment (loader, excavator and 2 trucks)    0.67
Survey and soil testing equipment                         0.10
Vehicles (4WD pick-ups, and motorbikes 125cc)             0.15
Office equipment (including computers, fax, photocopier)  0.05
Total                                               1.20
(vii) TIA and Capacity Building for Road Sector (US$3.37 m). The capacity building for the road
sector is designed with the three following specific objectives:
*  assist local authorities to implement the project with good quality standards and in a cost effective
manner;
*  develop institutional capacity for the management of the maintenance activities; and
*  assist the development of local contracting industry.
Among various activities design to achieve these objectives, consultants will be hired under the
project to provide technical support and conduct on-the-job training in construction supervision, and
to organize training for contractors and local government officials. It is proposed that two RCMS
will be hired, one in each province for the first three years of project implementation, and one RCMS
to be shared between the provinces for three additional years. They will assist DCTPCs with contract
preparation and supervision, assist each DCTPC to develop sustainable maintenance practices



Project Appraisal Document          Page 43            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(including introduction of measures for slope protection and increased slope stability) and provide
technical support to local contractors on bidding procedures and contract management and execution.
Total staff month of RCMS amounts at 108 (US$ 3.25 m). In addition the project will provide funds
for English training, study tours and other training courses (US$ 0.12 m). Apart from on-the-job
training other short-term training activities will focus on project management and quality control of
works.
Project Component 2 - Township Water Supply - US$3.96 million (total cost of component including
contingencies)
Provision of major town water supply at a reliable quantity and quality. This will reduce the
time people spend fetching water and provide them with an amount and quality of water that will meet
their basic health and hygiene needs. The investment will include water treatment plant and house-to-
house connection of water supply in Muang Xay, the provincial capital of Oudomxay province, and in
Muang Khoua in Phongsaly Province.
(i) Water supply scheme in Muang Xay, Oudomxay Muang Xay is the provincial capital of
Oudomxay. The present population in the proposed reticulation area of the Muang Xay pipe scheme is
19,158 people. The growth rate reported by the district authority is 2.8%. For the design period of 20
years the population in 2017 at this growth rate will be 34,000 people. The existing water supply scheme
was first commissioned in 1986 and had the following deficiencies:
* Due to rapid growth of the town of Oudomxay and hence the demand for town water supply, the
coverage of the existing reticulation system is not adequate.
* The flow from the springs is not reliable. The catchment area above the springs is also subject to
slash and bum activities.
* The present treatment plant only treats water from one of the sources while water from the other two
sources enters the reticulation system untreated.
* The treatment plant filter beds are too coarse: the filter material is several millimeters in diameter.
* There is no access road to the treatment plant and chemicals and supplies must be carried manually
3 km from the nearest road to the site.
*  The water supplied during the wet season becomes very turbid and is unacceptable to the consumers.
Proposed Upgrade. Two major deficiencies of the existing scheme as described above are that only part
of the water entering the reticulation system is treated, and that large part of water demand is not covered
by the existing supply. The proposed upgrade of the scheme will disconnect the untreated spring water
from the reticulated supply and a new dedicated main will carry this water to a new WTP to be installed
at the storage reservoir site. The new WTP will need to meet Type I raw water conditions, i.e. over 20
NTU some or all of the time (see technical detail in Volume 5 of the feasibility report in Project Files).
The design flow to be used is 40 I/s while the flow required for the treatment plants is 44 I/s. The
proposed WTP main storage reservoir site has excess space which allows for future expansion. The
existing spring sources will be augmented with water to be pumped from the Ko river. A water sample
was taken from the Ko river for analysis and found within the World Health Organization Guidelines
with the exception of aluminum. A concentration of 0.3 mg/l of aluminum was detected in the sample,
the aesthetic limit for aluminum in the WHO guidelines is 0.2 mg/l. Aluminum is a naturally occurring
element in clays and, although of aesthetic importance, it is not of health significance and does not
warrant not using the proposed source.



Project Appraisal Document          Page 44            Title: Provincial lnfrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Muang Xay Scheme Cost Estimate
Item                        Cost Estimate (US$)
High lift pump intake                      99,000
Transmission                              245,000
Treatmnent                               1,001,000
Reservoir/s                               241,700
Booster pump/s                             12,000
Fencing                                     6,000
Reticulation                              319,296
TOTAL                          $ 1,923,996
(ii) Water Supply Scheme in Muang Khoua, Phongsaly. The present population in the
proposed reticulation area of Muang Khoua pipe scheme is 5,894 people. The growth rate reported by
the district authority is 2.3%. For the design period of 20 years, the population in 2017 at this growth rate
will be I 1,000 people. The existing system was first built in 1978 at the direction of the district chief and
consisted of two or three tap stands. Due to scheme maintenance problems, in 1994 the system was taken
over and developed by a semi-private organization. The system currently consists of two sub-systems: an
upper intake system and a lower intake system; both take water from the same source, the Houi Chili.
The combined flow produced from the two sources is 1.5 Ils (3,888 m3/month). The average
volume of water sold to residents/businesses in a month is 1,250 m3 which represents only 32 % of
production, although water demand is estimated to be much more than supply (see more explanation
below) indicating a large volume of unaccountable water. A significant number of people from Muang
Khoua use the Ou and Phak rivers for non-drinking water, i.e. laundry and bathing.
The existing scheme has the following deficiencies:
* The existing intake is exposed to even small floods in the stream source.
* The banks of the source are steep and in places very badly eroded. The risk of further erosion means
that sections of the upper intake transmission line are perpetually under threat of being carried away
in a land slide. These conditions also result in high turbidity water entering the system during the wet
season.
* Even with the two intakes, there is insufficient water to meet the demands of the present consumers.
In dry months the water was being allocated on a rotational basis with some parts of the town only
getting water every other day.
* Most of the PVC pipe system has been installed above ground. This means that it is easy to find
leaks but also means the system is vulnerable to tampering and exposed to sunlight damage.
* The water meters are mounted above ground and exposed. The meters inspected were green with
growth on the inside. This growth affects the meters and helps to explain why less water is sold than
is produced.
Proposed Upgrade. Because of the significant deficiencies described above, it is proposed that
the existing scheme be abandoned except for the upper intake. The intake will be redirected to augment
the raw water supply to the proposed new WTP. The proposed new scheme will pump raw water from
Phak river to a WTP site above the areas to be reticulated. The treated water will be stored in a reservoir



Project Appraisal Document            Page 45            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
and from there gravitate to the distribution system. The design flow for Muang Khoua is 12 I/s, (1,040
m3/day) while the flow required for the treatment plant is 13 I/s. The predicted 20 year design flow is
14.5 I/s with a flow to the treatment plant of 16 I/s.
A water sample was taken from the Phak river for analysis and found that all elements analyzed
were within the WHO guidelines. More technical discussion of the envisaged overall upgrade by sub-
component can be found in Volume 5 of the project feasibility report available in Project Files.
Muang Khoua Scheme Cost Estimate
Item                         Cost Estimate (US$)
First Stage
High lift pump intake                       97,000
Transmission                                31,600
Treatment                                  211,900
Reservoir/s                                 77,600
Reticulation First Stage                   100,850
Sub Total (First Stage)               518,950
Second Stage
Service Reservoirs                          20,000
Reticulation Second Stage                  257,400
TOTAL                                 796,350
Project Comlponent 3 - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation - US$2.92 million (total cost of
component including Community and Government contributions and contingencies)
Effective formation of community user groups to invest, manage and maintain community water
supply, latrine and washing facilities, and to promote basic hygiene awareness among rural population,
applying the LAO SSGNF, with continual refinement through a participatory learning process. At the
same time, modeling pilot approaches to (a) community based hygiene, sanitation and water supply
improvements (b) appropriate capacity building and (c) structured learning, for replication in other
Districts and other Provinces. The objectives of the component include:
*  Promoting hygiene-related behavioral changes in communities, health centers and schools.
*  Encouraging appropriate demand-based, community-managed investments in water supply and
sanitation, and piloting subsidy schemes to benefit the poorest.
*  Strengthening personnel and institutional capacity in six focus Districts and two provincial centers in
hygiene promotion and service delivery and support.
*  Strengthening intra and inter sectoral collaboration and coordination.
Target Population:
*  165 rural and remote communities (comprising a population of approx. 42,000, largely ethnic
minorities) in the Districts of Beng Houn, Pakbeng in Oudomaxay Province and the Districts of
Khoua Mai and Boun Tai in Phongsaly Province;
*  Students (approx. 14,000) and teachers in 116 village schools;
*  Staff and patients of approximately 36 village dispensaries and sub-District health centers.



Project Appraisal Document             Page 46             Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Estimated Cost including community and Government contributions and overall Project
Contingencies
Total incl.
Phongsaly    Oudomxay      Total     contingencies
Human resources and HRD                 $ 211,000    S 206,000    $ 417,000    $ 503,320
Office Equipment, Supplies & Transport  $ 168,000    $ 132,000    $ 300,000    $ 362,100
Hardware Capital Investments            $ 465,400    $ 465,400    $ 930,800   $ 1,123,480
Intemal Supervision, Monitoring & Eval.  $ 142,000    $ 98,000    $ 240,000    $ 289,680
Technical Assistance                    $ 308,000    $ 215,000    $ 523,000    $ 631,260
Nam Saat Salaries                        $ 16,500     $ 12,900     $ 29,400     $ 35,490
Total                                  $ 1,310,900   $ 1,129,300   $ 2,440,200   $ 2,945,330
Technical Assistance:
Technical Assistance (TA) will be delivered by two HASWAS Provincial Advisers, one resident
in Phongsaly, the other in Oudomxay. These will be UNV-sourced or equivalent, and will provide hands-
on advice to District and Provincial personnel. Additional inputs will be delivered through Short Term
Consultants (STCs), both internationally and locally sourced. These will give inputs to short workshops
and training courses on project management, team work, report writing and on cultural, gender awareness
and other topics. Both Advisers and STCs will be contracted and managed directly by Nam Saat central,
acting as agent on behalf of the Provinces. Funding for this will be directly accessed from MoF, utilizing
the TA and Internal Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation budget lines.
Component Sustainability:
Several features are incorporated to help promote sustainability:
* Capacity-building of Namsaat and its partners is geared to promote local leadership and management.
* Villages are assured a variety of appropriate investment choices, trained in O&M, and offered
exchanges and exposure to learning.
* The continual learning process promotes flexible planning and provisions.
Sustainability potential has been further strengthened by the Lao-led preparation process utilized
during preparation of the component. This has lead to a likely long-lasting local commitment to support
the activities and ensure their long term impact, and to overcome unforeseen difficulties.
The sustainability/wider use of the model approach itself, to be developed and demonstrated by
the component, is likely to be good, due to the sound foundation (the SSGNF) on which the approach is
built, and the importance given to learning, feedback and communication processes within the component
design.



Project Appraisal Document             Page 47             Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Project Component 4 - Institutional Strengthening - US$0.90 million (total cost of component
including contingencies)
Capacity building of local governments to strengthen the planning and operational capacities of
the provincial technical and administrative organs in their routine review of revenues and expenditures.
This is to ensure that proper planning, budgeting and management funding is provided for the needed
basic infrastructure, and for effectively executing and monitoring provincial investment projects.
The component would include:
* Introducing monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in order to develop relevant data
collection, data analysis and management information systems, and to integrate relevant
project procedures into regular provincial administrative activities and operations;
* Arranging for short-term seminars, training and domestic and regional study tours for
provincial staff;
* Providing as many as six Bachelor's Degree scholarships to neighboring countries with a
condition that the recipients return and work in their home provinces for an agreed-upon
minimum period. This will be part of the long-term human resource development and
institution strengthening of the provincial governments;
* Providing T/A to provincial DPC office as and when needed. This aim to assist provincial
counterparts in planning, budgeting and management as well as to coordinate the overall T/A
program;
* Providing technical advisory to support implementation supervision of all physical
construction component. A group of international and nation consultants will be hired under
the project to provide technical support and conduct on-the-job training in construction
supervision, and to organize training for contractors and local government officials;
*  Providing office, office equipment and transport as necessary;
* Training in community based approaches and consultations.



Project Appraisal Document          Page 48           Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 2.1 Outline Terms of Reference for Road Construction and
Maintenance Specialist (RCMS)
Background
1.    The Govemment of Lao PDR has applied to the International Development Association for a
credit to finance the upgrading of low volume roads and township water supply systems in the provinces
of Phongsaly and Oudomxay. The credit would also be used to help these local governments
strengthen/build their overall capability to plan and manage provincial infrastructure projects. The
technical assistance described below would specifically focus on the implementation of the road
component of the project.
2.   In each province, the DCTPC is responsible for the construction and maintenance of national and
provincial roads within their provinces. District offices are responsible for district roads. However, the
districts do not possess any resources and therefore rely exclusively on the provincial offices.
3.    Generally, the level of technical skills and capability at the provincial level is rudimentary.
Oudomxay and especially Phongsaly have limited experience with international donor funded projects
and in particular with project management and procurement requirements. The DCTPCs suffer from a
shortage of adequately and experienced engineers and technicians, vehicles, soil and bitumen testing
equipment and office equipment.
4.    The local construction industry also suffers from a serious lack of management skills, equipment.
experience and little appreciation of contractual obligations and procedures.
Objectives
5.    The objectives of the project's road component are to:
* improve road access to local communities
* help DCTPC implement the road component
* foster the development of DCTPC capacity to manage road investments and maintenance
programs
* encourage the development of private contractors
Scope of the Road Component
6.    The road component will include the following:
* Oudomxay Province:
* Upgrading of Road No.2 between Muang Xai and Pakbeng (139 km)
* Upgrading of Road No.2E Between Muang Xai and Phongsaly provincial border
(52km)
* Road spot improvement
* Phongsaly Province
* Road No.2E Between Oudomxay provincial border and Muang Khoua (48 kim)
* Road No.19 Between Boun Neua and Ban Pakha (40km)



Project Appraisal Document           Page 49            Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
* Road spot improvement
* Construction of an airfield in Boun Neua
* Construction of a cable river crossing system over the Nam Ou river in Muang Khoua
Scheduling
7.    For the first three years of project implementation, each province will benefit from the services of
a RCMS. For the three following years of project implementation, only one RCMS will be provided for
both provinces who will share the services based on the volume of works and particular technical
assistance needs of each province. Mobilization is expected in November/December 1998. The RCMS
will be based in provincial capitals.
Scope of Services
8.    The main tasks of the RCMS will consist of:
* assist DCTPCs in implementing the road component of the project:
*  contract preparation
*  contract supervision
*  coordination
*  quality control
*  reporting, monitoring and accounting
* on-the-job training: planning; procurement; construction; maintenance; and quality control
* develop institutional capacity for the management of construction and maintenance activities
(including introduction of measures for slope protection and increased slope stability)
* assist the development of the local contacting industry mainly through on-the-job training
focusing on:
* procurement
* bid preparation
* contract execution
9.    The RCMSs will work directly under the responsibility of the Director and Deputy Director of
each DCTPC. The RCMS will also cooperate with other projects implemented in parallel by other donor
agencies.
Qualifications
10.   The RCMSs would be qualified civil engineers with a minimum of eight years of experienced in
construction and maintenance of low volume roads in developing countries.



Project Appraisal Document          Page 50            ritle: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 2.2 Outline Terms of Reference for Township Water Supply
Construction Specialist (TWSCS)
Background
I.    The Provincial Infrastructure Development Project includes urban water supply projects for
Muang Xai , Oudomxay Province and Muang Khuoa, Phongsaly Province. The urban water supply
projects will be implemented by the water utilities in each province, Nampapa Oudomxay and Nampapa
Phongsaly. The water supply systems in both towns will include river intakes, treatment works, storage
tanks, transmission lines, reticulation networks and house connections.
2.    Detailed design and bidding documents have already been completed for all works by consultants.
The provinces will with assistance of Nampapa Lao, the national water utility organization, assign water
supply engineers with middle level experience to supervise the implementation in the two towns. To
provide overall supervision and to ensure that the highest quality work is produced by the local
contractors, the provinces have decided to engage an senior expatriate engineer with extensive experience
in construction of water works.
3.    The two provinces have established a joint committee to engage the services of the senior
expatriate engineer. The contract will after selection be co-signed by the two provinces while one of the
provinces (probably Oudomxay Province) will be delegated to administer the contract.
Scope of Works
4.    The Engineer will be responsible for:
(a)  Review the detailed designs and bid documents with the two local engineers to check for
completeness and consistency;
(b)  Assist the bid evaluation committees in evaluating the bids and ensure that all clearances
from the provinces and the World Bank are obtained expeditiously and that contracts are
signed;
(c)  Conduct all necessary field inspections at the various sites;
(d)  Supervise and assist in approval of monthly payment certificates, preparation of variation
orders, contract revisions during implementation;
(e)  Assist in preparation of payment requests to MOF and Applications for Replenishments by
MOF to the World Bank;
(f)  Assist in preparation of quarterly progress reports to the DPC in each province;
(g)  Assist in ensuring availability of local counterpart funds for operation and contract payments;
(h)  Assist in inspections of works and direction of the implementation.



Project Appraisal Document              Page 51             Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
5.     The Engineer shall to the greatest extent possible assist the local engineers in carrying out all the
tasks but the Engineer may from time to time have to do the work him/herself and lead by example.
Profile of the iCandidate and Period of Assignment
6.     The expatriate engineer will have a solid experience of construction of small water supply
systems, a good knowledge of contract management, and a good record of public relations with clients
and contractors. Knowledge of Thai or Lao language will be an advantage.
7.     The duration of the consultancy is 12 months with 9 months performed during the first year and 3
months during the second year. The local engineers will both work 9 months during the first two years
and one will provide 6 months' service in year 3.



Project Appraisal Document                                         Page 52                                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Foreign   % of    Finance   % of IDA
Items                                      -----(Kip: million)-.--  ------(US$: '000)-----   cost to  Total    from IDA    finance
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign   Total total (/.) proj. cost  USSO000
1. Transport Access
a. Oudomxay Province:
- Road 2W Muang Xai to Pak Beng           6426   9639   16065    3060.0  4590.0  7650.0   60.0         24.6    6885.0       90.0
-Road2E M. Xai to Phongsaly border        1764   2646   4410       840.0   1260.0  2100.0   60.0        6.8    1890.0       90.0
- Spot improvement activities              168    252    420        80.0    120.0   200.0   60.0        0.6      180.0      90.0
-Officeequipment,supplies,transport&etc     32    284    315        15.0    135.0   150.0   90.0        0.5      150.0     100.0
b. Phongsaly Province:
- Road 2E Oudomxay border to Khoua        2360   3541   5901    1124.0   1686.0  2810.0   60.0          9.0    2529.0       90.0
-Road l9BounNeuatoB.Pakha                  924   1386   2310       440.0   660.0   1100.0   60.0        3.5     990.0       90.0
-AirfieldatBounNeua                        857   1285   2142       408.0   612.0   1020.0   60.0        3.3     918.0       90.0
- Cable river crossing atMuang Khoua       151    227    378        72.0    108.0    180.0   60.0       0.6      162.0      90.0
-Rehab.offlooddamageonroad2E              210    315    525        100.0    150.0   250.0   60.0        0.8     225.0       90.0
- Road Maintenance Equipment               126   1134   1260        60.0    540.0   600.0   90.0        1.9      600.0     100.0
- Office building                           25    227    252        48.0     72.0    120.0   60.0       0.4      108.0      90.0
- Office equipment, supplies, transport & etc  176    412    588    28.0   252.0   280.0   90.0         0.9      280.0     100.0
c. Seminar andtraining (road)                 36    174    210        17.0    83.0    100.0   83.0        0.3      100.0     100.0
d. Technical Assistance (road)                 0   5670   5670         0.0  2700.0   2700.0  100.0        8.7    2700.0      100.0
Subtotal                  13255  27191  40446    6292.0  12968.0  19260.0   67.3        62.0   17717.0       92.0
II. Township Water Supply
a. Oudomxay Province:
-watersupplynetworkinMuangXay             1011   3032   4043       481.3   1443.8   1925.0   75.0       6.2    1732.5       90.0
-Office equipment, supplies, transport& etc  17    151    168        8.0    72.0    80.0   90.0         0.3      80.0      100.0
b. Phongsaly Province:
- water supply network in Muang Khoua      420   1260   1680       200.0   600.0   800.0   75.0         2.6      720.0      90.0
-Office equipment, supplies, transport& etc  8     76      84       4.0    36.0    40.0   90.0          0.1      40.0      100.0
c. training (water supply)                    21    105    126        10.2    49.8     60.0   83.0        0.2      60.0      100.0
d. Technical Assistance (water supply)         0    840    840         0.0   400.0   400.0   100.0        1.3      400.0     100.0
Subtotal                   1477   5463   6941       703.5  2601.6   3305.0   78.7       10.6    3032.5      91.8
.11. Rural water supply and Sanitation
a. Human resource development                701    175    876       354.5    62.6   417.0    15.0        1.3      417.0     100.0
b. Office equipment, supplies, transport & etc.  63    567    630     30.0   270.0    300.0   90.0        1.0      300.0     100.0
c. Hardware capital Investment
- Construction material and field equipment  367    122    489     174.5    58.2   232.7   25.0         0.7     232.7      100.0
Community participation                 1368       0    1368     651.6      0.0    651.6    0.0       2.1        0.0       0.0
- Govemmentcontribution                    98       0      98      46.5      0.0    46.5    0.0         0.1       0.0        0.0
d. intemal supervision, monitoring & eval.   403    101    504       204.0    36.0   240.0    15.0        0.8      240.0     100.0
e. Technical Assistance                        0   1098   1098         0.0    523.0   523.0   100.0       1.7      523.0     100.0
f Namsaat staff salary                        62      0      62       29.4     0.0    29.4    0.0         0.1       0.0        0.0
Subtotal                  3061   2063   5124    1490.5   949.7  2440.2   38.9            7.8    1712.7      70.2
IV. Institution Strengthening
a. Oudomxay Province:
-Localstaffsalary                          221       0    221      105.0      0.0    105.0    0.0       0.3        0.0       0.0
- Local travel & admin. cost               160      40    200       76.2     19.0    95.2   20.0        0.3       95.2     100.0
- Seminar, training & scholarship program    0    252    252         0.0    120.0    120.0  100.0       0.4      120.0     100.0
b. Phongsaly Province:
-Localstaffsalary                          221       0    221      105.0      0.0    105.0    0.0       0.3        0.0       0.0
- Local travel & admin. cost               160      40    200       76.2     19.0    95.2   20.0        0.3       95.2     100.0
- Seminar, training & scholarship program    0    252    252         0.0    120.0   120.0  100.0        0.4      120.0     100.0
c. Logistic & support from central agencies  168     42    210        80.0    20.0    100.0   20.0        0.3      100.0     100.0
Subtotal                   929    626   1555       442.3   298.1    740.4   40.3         2.4      530.4      71.6
Total base cost                           18722  35343  54066    8928.2  16817.4  25745.6   65.3        82.8   22992.6
Physical contingencies (10%)                 1872   3534   5407       892.8   1681.7  2574.6   65.3        8.3    2317.1       90.0
Price contingencies                          9591  17671  27261       980.7   1784.6  2765.3   64.5        8.9    2488.8.      90.0
Total Project Cost                        30185  56549  86734   10801.8  20283.7  31085.5   65.3    100.0   27798.5          89.4
Note: a) 1998exchangerate:US$1.00  Kip2,100
b) All figures are rounded.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 53                   Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
A. Cost Benefit Analysis summary for road investment.
Main Assumptions:
I. All the roads are divided into sections for the analysis. In general, it is assumed that each section
would take 1-2 years to implement. Therefore, it is conservatively assumed that the benefits of
generated traffic will only commence in the year in which the final section is completed and that road
user cost savings only commence in the year following completion.
2. The analysis assumes a 15 year design life for all roads and a discount rate of 10%.
3. The following five maintenance options were analyzed using the HDM model:
Option 1: do nothing at all (against which the costs and benefits of the other options are compared)
Option 2: unsealed overlay with no maintenance
Option 3: unsealed overlay with grading once per year
Option 4: unsealed overlay with grading twice per year
Option 5: sealed overlay with routine maintenance
Details of road characteristics for each section, vehicle characteristics and operating costs,
construction costs and the proposed schedule for each road section are detailed in Volume 3 of the
Feasibility Study Document available in the Project Files.
The summary of rates of return, NPVs and benefit cost ratios for each road sections are in
Tables 4.1 and 4.2. A sensitivity analysis was carried out for Option 5 with its result summarized in
Table 4.3. The result remains viable for all the indicated changes in costs and benefits.
Table 4.1 EIRR and NPV for Road Investment
Road Section         Internal Rate of Return (%)   NPV Net Benefits (US$ mln)
02     03     04      05    02    03    04    05
(i) Oudomxay-Pakbeng
Muang Xay - Beng          None  20.2   18.9    20.7  -0.06   0.02   0.01   0.03
Beng - Houn               None  46.7   47.5    28.8  -0.08   0.04   0.04   0.06
Houn - Pak Beng           None  48.6   49.6    29.2  -0.08   0.04   0.04   0.06
(ii) Oudomxay-M. Khoua
Oudomxay - Phongsaly      None  None  None    62.3  0.05   0.12   0.14   0.16
border
Phongsaly border -        None  None  None    46.3  0.05   0.12   0.14   0.15
Monsavan
Monsavan - Muang Khoua    None  None  None    42.3  0.05   0.12   0.14   0.14
(iii) Boun Neua-B. Pakha
Boun Neua - Ban Yor       None  33.6   20.5    15.9  0.01   0.00   0.00   0.01
Ban Yor - Ban Pakha       None  33.6   20.5    14.4  0.01   0.00   0.00   0.01
Note: 02=Option 2, etc.



ProJec Appraisal Document                 Page 54                  Tite: Provincial Infrastructure Prject
Country: Lao PDR
Table 4.2: Benefit-Cost Ratios for Road Investment
Road Section               Benefit-Cost Ratio       Incremental B/C Ratios
02     03      04      05    2 to 5   5 to 3   3 to 4
(i) Oudomxay-Pakbeng
M Xay - Beng                 -1.38   1.29    1.24    1.60    4.29   -2.33   0.70
Beng - Houn                  -1.97   1.73    1.65    2.37    8.34   -1.31   1.07
Houn - Pak Beng              -2.08   1.78    1.70    2.43    8.42   -1.62   1.18
(ii) Oudomxay-M. Khoua
Oudomxay - Phongsaly border    0.00    5.14    5.69    5.32    5.69    0.00    6.02
Phongsaly border - Monsavan  0.00    5.14    5.69    3.94    5.69    0.00    2.21
Monsavan - Muang Khoua       0.00    5.14    5.69    3.58    5.69    0.00    1.78
(iii) Boun Neua-B. Pakha
Boun Neua - Ban Yor          0.00    1.10    1.04    1.38    1.38    0.81    -0.95
Ban Yor - Ban Pakha          0.00    1.10    1.04    1.28    1.28    0.81    -2.25
Note: 02=Option 2, etc.; I to 2=incremental B/C ratio of Option 2 over Option I
Table 4.3: Sensitivity Analysis for Road Investment (Option 5)
Base      Costs    Benefit    Costs      Costs
Case     +10%       +10%      +10%       -10%
Benefits -  Benefits
10%      +10%
(i) Oudomxay-Pakbeng
M. Xay- Beng                   20.7      17.7       22.1      15.3      24.7
Beng - Houn                    28.8      26.8       32.7      24.2      34.5
Houn - Pak Beng                29.2      27.0       31.8      24.5      34.8
(ii) Oudomxay-M. Khoua
Oudomxay - Phongsaly border    62.3      57.6       69.1      52.3      76.3
Phongsaly border - Monsavan    46.3      43.6       52.0      39.5      57.4
Monsavan - Muang Khoua         42.3      39.8       47.6      36.0      52.5
(fli) Boun Neua-B. Pakha
Boun Neua - Ban Yor            15.9      14.9       18.8      13.1      21.1
Ban Yor - Ban Pakha            14.4      13.6       17.3      11.8       19.5



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 55                    Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
(i) Road 2Wfrom Muang Xay to Pak Beng
All three sections of this road have IRR well above 10%. In particular, the IRR for option 5,
which constitutes the major proposal for upgrading, are between 20% and 30%.
The highest IRRs among the four options are Option 4 - an unsealed road graded twice a year -
reflecting the lower costs for this option compared with Option 5, even though the benefits are assumed
to be somewhat similar. Among the road sections, the Houn to Pak Beng and Houn to Beng sections
have similar IRRs and NPVs - somewhat higher than for Oudomxay to Beng section. These results
indicate that upgrading this road should be a sound development prospect. However, to the extent that
this analysis is not able to fully take into account all the institutional costs of constructing and
maintaining roads in the Lao PDR, the IRR may be overstated. However, it is unlikely that the degree of
overstatement is such as to reduce the rates of return to close to or below 10%.
Net present values are higher for Option 5 than for the other strategies, indicating that the total
net benefits of this option are greater than its alternatives for all three road sections. On this basis, Option
5 would be the preferred option for upgrading this road. This conclusion is confirmned by the benefit cost
ratios in Table 4.2. These are also highest for Option 5, reflecting the higher benefits for Option 5 as well
as the much higher recurrent costs for Options 3 and 4 than for Options 5 - about US$ 5,300 -
5,400/km/year compared with US$ 800/km/year.
(ii) Road 2Efrom Muang Xay to Muang Khoua
For this road, the results for all three sections are almost identical, reflecting the very similar
present and future conditions on this road. Rates of return are only calculated for Option 5, at around
40%. NPVs for Options 4 and 5 are both US$ 0.14 million, suggesting that implementation of either of
these options will have similar overall effects. Benefit cost ratios are higher for options 3 and 4 than for
option 5, reflecting the lower costs for these options and benefits that are assumed to be rather similar.
However, the incremental benefit cost ratio of strategy 5 over option 4 is still greater than 1 indicating
that the gains in user benefits outweigh the increased costs of option 5 compared to option 4.
The result of a sensitivity analysis (Table 4.3) shows that rates of return are slightly less sensitive
to changes in costs than to changes in benefits. For all the variations considered, rates of return remain
above 30%.
(iii) Road 2Efrom Boun Neua to Ban Pakha
This road is characterized by relatively low costs for upgrading but also by low present traffic
volumes. Expected benefits are correspondingly low. The higher capital costs of option 5 lead, as with
the previous road, to its lower rates of return for option 5 than for options 3 and 4. NPVs are low, but
highest (US$ 10,000) for option 5, indicating that this would be the preferred option for upgrading this
road. Benefit cost ratios are greater than 1 for options 3, 4 and 5 but are highest for option 5. For this
road, option 5 would be the preferred upgrading option.
The result of a sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return is significantly more sensitive to
benefits than to costs.



Project Appraisal Document                  Page S6                    Tite: Provindal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
B. Cost Benefit Analysis for Airfield investment.
Although there are no traffic statistics for air traffic into and out of Phongsaly province, Table 4.4
provides growth patterns of air traffic from three adjacent provinces for 1995 and 1996. This indicates
that growth can be expected to range from 9% to 14 %. The cost estimates for two alternative upgrading
options were made based partly on the recent design by Lao Airports Improvements Consultants and its
associates.-VI
Table 4.4: Air Traffic Growth
To/from Airport          1995 Traffic     1996 Traffic      Growth
Luang Namtha                  14,502            15,829           9 %
Oudonmxay                     11,428            12,898          13 %
Huayxay                       11,017            12,562          14%
1. Cost Assumption. Construction period is 2 years with two construction options:
a case 1, the existing runway is upgraded on its present alignment for a cost of US$ 598,745.
e case 2, a longer runway is constructed on a new alignment for a total cost of US$ 1,020,000.
2. Benefit Assumption. Two assumption were made for travel time saving:
-  assumption A for which:
a) saved travel time for 7 months in the dry season as the time for travel by road between Oudomxay
and Boun Neua less air travel time for the same distance, assumed to be 5 hours per passenger,
and
b) during 5 months in the wet season, travel by road must be via China and saved travel time is
assumed to be 24 hours per passenger.
-  assumption B for which:
c) conditions are the same as assumption A for the first 10 years of operation, and then
d) an all weather road permits all year direct road travel from Oudomxay to Boun Neua and saved
travel is reduced to 2.5 hours per passenger
-  the value of saved travel time is US$ 1.50/hr. in constant 1997 dollars
*  flights begin in the year after completion of the upgrading of the airport and benefits have been
estimated for 20 years
*  the number of passengers per day, for the day on which there are flights, is calculated for growth
rates of 5%, 10% and 15%
*  estimates are made for two levels of traffic in the first year of operation - 20 passengers (i.e. 10 in
each direction) per flight-day and 30 passengers per flight day; and two flight frequency options
are considered - daily flights and flights every other day (Table 4.5).
'  Airports Improvement Project, Tender Documents for Upgrading Phongsaly Airport, Lao
Airports Improvement Consultants/Dorsch Consult Gmbh./Netherlands Airport Consultants
BV, December 1996.



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 57                       Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Table 4.5: Number of Passengers Using Boun Neua Airfield
No. Passengers Per Flight Day in Year I       Daily Flights       Flights Every Other Day
20                               7,300                    3,650
30                              10,950                    5,474
Assuming the opportunity cost of capital is 10%, the rates of return are summarized in
Table 4.6.
Table 4.6: IRR for Various Airfield Traffic Volumes and growth
No. Pax Per Flight-Day in Year 1:           Assumption A                Assumption B
15%      10%       5%       15%       10%       5%
(i) Investment Case 1
- Daily flights:            20        33.3       28.7    24.0       29.3      24.9    20.5
30        42.8       38.3    33.7      40.2      35.9    31.6
- Flights every other day:   20       21.7       17.3    12.2       15.4      10.9     6.0
30        28.0      23.3    18.5       22.9       18.5    14.0
(ii) Investment Case 2
-  Daily flights:           20        24.0       19.3    14.6       18.2      13.7     9.0
30        30.8      26.2    21.5       26.3      22.0    17.5
- Flights every other day:   20        15.1      10.4     5.4        7.4       2.5    (3.6)
30        20.0       15.3    10.5       13.3       8.7     3.7
Case 1: the lower cost option, would be viable for all traffic growth rates for both benefit
assumptions (A and B) for the higher initial traffic assumptions (i.e. daily flights with 7,300 or 10,950
passengers in the first year of operation). For the lower initial traffic assumptions (i.e. flights every other
day with 3,650 or 5,474 passengers in the first year of operation), all options are viable except 5% traffic
growth with benefit assumption B. The same option with 10% growth would also be marginal.
Case 2: would be viable for all traffic growth rates and both benefit assumptions with the higher
initial traffic assumptions, except the 5% traffic growth with benefit assumption B. With the lower initial
traffic assumptions (flights every other day), the viability of this case is less certain. In general, it would
be viable for benefit assumption A for traffic growth rates of 10% and 15% but for benefit assumption B
only for the higher of the two passenger options (i.e. 30 per flight or 5,474 per year) and an annual
growth rate of 15%.
In summary, if benefit assumption A applies, the airport upgrading with either case 1 or case 2
would be viable for all but the lowest traffic number and growth option considered. If benefit assumption
B applies (and this is perhaps the more realistic for the longer term), upgrading with case 1 would also be
viable for all but the lowest traffic number and growth option considered. Case 2, however, would only
be viable for the initial passenger traffic of 10,950 per year for all growth rates of 15% and 10% or the
initial traffic of 5,474 and 15% growth rate.



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 58                       Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
However, the calculation takes no account of the indirect benefits that are likely to arise for
government, the private sector and economic development generally in the northern part of Phongsaly
province from easier, faster communications with the rest of the country.
C. Cost Benefit Analysis for Town water supply investment
1. Main Assumption:
*  Construction period of 4 years at the cost provided in Annex 4
*  Population growth rate of 2.8%
*  Annual per capita water consumption of 1201/per/day
*  increase in future water tariff to 365 Kip/cu.m
*  System wastage and losses assumed at 50% for existing systems and loss at 17% for new system
Residual value after 20 years assumed to be 60% of capital value
* Year 1 is 1998
Cost-Benefit of Muang Xay Water Supply System
Year Capital O&M   Total  Service  Water Present Incre.  Incr.  Water Incr. sale  Total           Net
Area   Sales   water  water  sale at sale at    at       sale at   Benefit
Costs  Costs  Costs  '000  (future)  sales  sales  current future  future   future
people  '000    000   'o000   price   price    price    price
($O000) ($'000) ($'000) people  (m3/yr) (cu.m.) (cu.m.) ($'000)                           ($'000)
1    321             321     20         0    315       0       0       0        0       0     (321)
2    641             641    21          0    315       0       0       0        0        0     (641)
3    641       0     641    21          0    315       0       0       0        0        0     (641)
4    321       0     321     22         0    315       0       0       0        0        0     (321)
5             96      96    23        990    315     675      90    113      242      355       259
6             96      96    23      1,018    315     703      93    113       252     365       269
7            96       96    24      1,047    315     731      97    113      262      375       279
8            96       96    25      1,076    315     761    101    113       273      386       290
9             96      96    25      1,106    315     791    105    113        283     397       300
10            96       96    26      1,137    315     822    109    113       295      408       312
11            96       96    27      1,169    315     853    113    113       306      419       323
12            96       96    27      1,202    315     886    118    113       318      431       335
13            96       96    28      1,235    315     920    122    113       330      443       347
14            96       96    29      1,270    315     954    127    113       342      455       359
15            96       96    30      1,305    315     990    131    113       355      468       372
16            96       96    31      1,342    315   1,027    136    113       368      481       385
17            96       96    31      1,379    315   1,064    141    113       382      495       398
18            96       96    32      1,418    315   1,103    146    113       395      508       412
19            96       96    33      1,458    315   1,142    151    113       410      523      427
20            96       96    34      1,499    315   1,183    157    113       424      537       441
Residual value                                                                             1,154
NPV                                                                                        193
IRR                                                                                      11.52



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 59                       Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Cost-Benefit of Muang Khoua Water Supply System
Year Capital O&M   Total  Service  Water Present Incre.  Incr.  Water  Incr.  Total sale   Net
Area   Sales   water  water  sale at sale at sale at    at
Costs  Costs  Costs  '000  (future)  sales  sales  current future  future   future   Benefit
people  '000    '000   '000   price   price   price    price
($'000) ($'000) ($'000) people  (m3/yr) (cu.m.) (cu.m.) ($'000)                          ($'000)
1    127             127      6        0      24       0      0      0         0       0      (127)
2    253             253      6        0      24       0      0       0        0        0     (253)
3    253       0     253      7        0      24       0      0       0        0        0     (253)
4     127      0      127     7        0      24       0      0       0        0        0     (127)
5             28      28      7      314      24     291    34        8      104      113       85
6             28      28      7      323      24     300    35        8      107      116       88
7             28      28      7      332      24     309    36        8      111      119       91
8            29       29      7      342      24     318    37        8      114      122       94
9             29      29      8      351      24     327    39        8      117      126       97
10            30       30      8     361      24      337    40       8      121      129       100
11            30       30      8     371      24      347    41       8      125      133       103
12            30       30      8     381      24      358    42       8      128      137       106
13            31       31      9     392      24      368    43       8      132      141       110
14            31       31      9     403      24      379    45       8      136      145       113
15            32       32      9     414      24      391    46       8      140      149       117
16            32       32      9     426      24      402    47       8      144      153       120
17            33       33    10      438      24      414    49       8      149      157       124
18            33       33    10      450      24      427    50       8      153      161       128
19            34       34    10      463      24      439    52       8      157      166       132
20            34       34    10      476      24      452    53       8       162     171       136
Residual Value                                                                             514
NPV:                                                                                        15
IRR                                                                                     10.28



Prject AppahaI Document                                              Page 60                                        TnUb: Provindal 1nfrstucWu Pjecd
Cow*y: Lao PMR
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(US$'OO0)
Implementation Period                                   Operational Period
1998     1999     2000  -2001       2002  1 2003      2004     2005      2006     2007     2008     2009
Project Cost
a. Oudomxay Province:
- Investment Cost                  243.1    1307:0   2778.8   3535.8   2694.0   1843.5    757.0    575.9
- Recurrent Cost                    14.5      49.5      76.0     88.0     59.0     47.0     41.0     35.0   137.35   274.70   412.05   412.05
b. Phongsaly Province:
- Investment Cost                  149.1    1080.8   2009.0   2044.0   1663.0   1173.0   422.0    289.1
- Recurrent Cost                    10.5      37.5      60.0     72.0     51.0     39.0     33.0     27.0    88.30   176.60   264.90   264.90
c. Namsaat
- Investment Cost                   14.2     247.1    479.6    536.9    278.9    166.4      30.7      0.0                                            I
- Recurrent Cost                    14.6     121.4    177.3    177.3      94.9     62.1     35.8      2.9    17.54    35.08    52.61    87.69       LT
0
Total baseline            446.1    2843.3   5580.8   6454.1   4840.9   3331.0   1319.5    930.0                                             l
Physical contingencies (10%)            44.6     284.3    558.1    645.4    484.1    333.1    132.0     93.0
Price contingencies                     10.8     139.2    413.8    645.4    611.8    511.1    238.8    194.5
Total project cost        501.5    3266.8   6552.6   7744.8   5936.8   4175.2   1690.2   1217.4
Financing Sources (% of proj. cost)
a. IDA Credit                        448.4    2921.4   5859.7   6925.9   5309.0   3733.7   1511.5   1088.7
b. Government Contribution            53.0      312.9    530.0    558.3    497.4    376.3    178.7    128.7
c. beneficiaries participation /c      0.0      32.6    162.9    260.6    130.3      65.2      0.0      0.0
Notes: a) 1998 as base year
b) Lao Fiscal year ending September 30. Fiscal year 1998 is October 1, 1998 to September 30, 1999
c) beneficiaries participation in cash or in kind for rural water and sanitation component



Project Appraisal Document              Page 61                    Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Works. Road improvement contracts will be packaged in lots of about 15-20 km for an
individual value ranging from US$ 0.6 million to US$ 1.2 million. A maximum of three
contracts per year per province would be procured. NCB procurement procedures acceptable to
the Association will be used as the relatively small value of these contracts is unlikely to attract
foreign competition. NCB procurement documents already approved by IDA under the Third
Highway Improvements Project (Cr. 2943-LA) will be used.
Road maintenance contracts contract will be packaged to cost less than US$ 50,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 0.5 million. They will be procured through procedures similar to
National Shopping where quotations are solicited from at least three qualified contractors.
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, (January 1995, revised January
1996, August 1996 and September 1997) will be used.
Goods. Road maintenance equipment will be procured under one contract through
International Shopping procedures for an estimated amount of US$ 720,000 including
contingencies. Under these procedures, at least three quotations from qualified suppliers from
two different countries will be solicited. Requests for quotations will indicate the description and
quantities of the goods, as well as delivery of time and place.
National shopping will be used for goods valued less than US$ 50,000 for an aggregate
amount of US$ 160,000. Under these procedures, at least three quotations from qualified
suppliers will be solicited. Requests for quotations will indicate the description and quantities of
the goods, as well as delivery of time and place.
Vehicles will be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization
(IAPSO) for an aggregate amount of US$ 210,000. Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, (January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997),
will be used.
Consultant's Services. All consulting services and technical assistance (about 140
person-months) would be procured in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
IDA, based on the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997).
Miscellaneous - Incremental Operating Costs. Incremental operating costs for about
US$150,000 including contingencies related to supervision, vehicle operation, office supplies and



Project Appraisal Document              Page62                     Title: Provindal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
project-related travel expenses, excluding Government officials' salaries. Procurement for these
services and goods will follow Government regulations in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All civil works contracts procured under NCB procedures estimated to cost more than
US$ 500,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review. This will cover more than 80% of the
procurement of works. All IDA- financed contracts for goods procured under international
shopping estimated to cost more than US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review, covering
more than 80% of the total value of IDA-financed goods. The prior review threshold for
consultant services will be US$100,000 in the case of consulting firms and US$50,000 in the case
of individual consultants. However, all terms of reference, sole-source contracts, or contracts of a
special nature for consultant services would be subject to prior review. Selective post review of
awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out during supervision missions on
about one in four works and goods contracts.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C) is summarized as follows:
- 90% of the total cost of civil works;
100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
equipment, materials and vehicles; 90% of local expenditures for other locally-procured
items;
-   100% of total expenditures for technical assistance, training and consultants' services; and
100% of training expenditures.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs) will be as follows:
* for civil works contracts that are less than US$500,000;
- for goods contracts that are less than US$50,000;
* for consultant firms contracts that are less than US$100,000;
* for individual consultants contracts that are less than US$ 50,000; and
* for all training expenses and incremental operating costs (subject to prior review by IDA of
training agendas and budgets).
Special account:
* A Special US Dollar Account with an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million would be
established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. However, an initial deposit to the SA
shall be limited to US$750,000 until disbursements and outstanding commitments against the
credit shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4.0 million.
* Expenditures above US$300,000 may be submitted directly to IDA for payment.
* Application for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or
when the amounts withdrawn equal 30% of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 63                     Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Procurement Method        Total Cost
ICB   NCB    Other I N.B.F        (inc].
l  l.Bl F  contingencies)
1. Civil Works
Road Improvements                              16.52                    16.52
14.88                    14.88
Airfield                                        1.23                     1.23
1.11                     1.11
Cable River Crossing System                     0.22                     0.22
0.20                     0.20
Building                                        0.14                     0.14
0.13                     0.13
Road Maintenance                                        0.54 /a          0.54
0.49             0.49
Township water supply system                    3.29                     3.29
2.96                     2.96
Local contribution for const. of RWSS                           0.84     0.84
0.00     0.00
2. Goods
Road maintenance equipment                              0.72 /b          0.72
0.72             0.72
Vehicles for road component                            0.42 /c           0.42
0.42             0.42
Vehicles for water supply component                     0.12 /c          0.12
0.12             0.12
Veh, material and field equip for RWSS                  0.57 /c-d        0.57
0.57             0.57
Office Supply                                           0.21 /d          0.21
0.21             0.21
3. Consultants' Services (including training)
T/A for road and town water supply                      3.74             3.74
3.74             3.74
T/A for rural water component                          0.63 lb           0.63
0.63             0.63
All training except rural water component               0.48 /b-d        0.48
0.48             0.48
HRD & intemal supervision of rural water                0.79 lb-d        0.79
0.79             0.79
Local staff salary                                     0.29              0.29
0.00             0.00
4. Operating Costs                                        0.35 /d           0.35
0.35             0.35
Total                                 21.40    8.86    0.84     31.10
19.28    8.52    0.00    27.80
Notes: a) Solicitation of quotations from at least three qualified contractors in a procedure similar to
shopping; b) International Shopping; c) IAPSO (UN procurement agency); d) National Shopping
Figures in bold Italics are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 64                   Title: Provincial lnfrastucture Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(Unit: US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                       Selection Method                 Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                        (including
QCBS  QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ   Other N.B.F. contingencies)
A. Firmns
Road Construction & Maintenance    3.26                                              3.26
Specialists                        3.26                                              3.26
Township water supply specialist   0.48                                              0.48
0.48                                             0.48
B. Individuals
Specialist for rural water supply         0.25                                       0.25
0.25                                      0.25
UN Volunteer for rural water supply       0.38                                       0.38
0.38                                      0.38
All training except rural water supply                        0.48                   0.48
0.48                   0.48
HRD and internal supervision of           0.79                                       0.79
rural water supply                       fl.79                                       0.79
Total                3.74   1.42                0.48                   5.64
3.74   1.42               0.48                   5.64
Note: QCBS =  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   =  Quality-based Selection
SFB   =  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   =  Least-Cost Selection
CQ    =  Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =  Not Bank-financed.
Figures in bold Italics are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 65                   Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract                        Contracts
Expenditure Category               Value       Procurement        Subject to
(Threshold)     Method          Prior Review
US$ '000                       US$ million
1. Civil Works
Road Improvements                            500.00     NCB                     13.20
Airfield                                     500.00     NCB                      1.23
Cable River Crossing System                  500.00     NCB                     0.00
Building                                     500.00     NCB                     0.00
Road Maintenance                               50.00    Nat'l Shopping          0.27
Township water supply system                 500.00     NCB                     2.63
2. Goods
Road maintenance equipment                    50.00     Int'l Shopping          0.72
Vehicles for road component                    n/a      IAPSO                   0.00
Vehicles for water supply component            n/a      IAPSO                   0.00
Equipment & supplies for rural water & sanitation  n/a   IAPSO
Office supply                                 50.00     Nat'l Shopping          0.00
3. Consultants' Services (including training)
T/A for road and township water supply       200.00      QCBS                   3.74
T/A for rural water supply component           50.00     QBS                    0.63
All training except rural water supply component  50.00  CQ                     0.48
HRD & internal supervision of rural water supply  50.00  QBS                    0.48
component
Local staff salary                             n/a                              0.00
4. Operating costs                                n/a      Nat'l Shopping          0.00
Total value of contracts subject to prior review                                  23.38



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 66                   ritle: Provindal Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Category                    Amount of                Percentage of expenditures
the Credit                   to be financed
Allocated
(Expressed in
US$ million
equivalent)
1. Civil Works                                   16.34              90%
Road Improvements                             12.29
Airfield                                       0.92
Cable River Crossing System                    0.16
Building                                       0.11
Road Maintenance                               0.41
Township water supply system                   2.45
2. Goods                                          1.68               100% of foreign expenditures,
Road maintenance equipment                     0.60               100% of local expenditures
Vehicles for road component                    0.34               (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
Vehicles for water supply component            0.10               local expenditures for other
Equipment & supplies for rural water & sanitation  0.47           items procured locally.
Office Supply                                  0.17
3. Consultants' Services (including training)     4.68                100%
T/A for road and township water supply         3.10
T/A for rural water supply component           0.52
All training except rural water supply component  0.40
HRD & internal supervision of rural water supply  0.66
component
4. Operating Costs                                0.29               100%
5. Unallocated                                    4.82
Total                    27.80



Project Appraisal Document                Page 67                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Business                                  $315                 $250
PHRD and NZ Consultant Trust Funds             $480                 $480
B. Project Schedule                            Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18
First Bank mission (identification)          10/01/1996           10/01/1996
Appraisal mission departure                  02/15/1998           04/20/1998
Negotiations                                 04/28/1998           04/29/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                12/01/1998              I /19
Prepared by:           The Provinces of Phongsaly and Oudomxay
Preparation assistance:  Japan PHRD Funds and New Zealand Consultant Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Supee Teravaninthorn           Task Team Leader/Economist
Finn Nielsen                    Water Supply Engineer
Denis Robitaille                Highway Engineer
Mary Judd                       Sociologist
Michael Seager                  Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Specialist
Mostafa El-Erian                Senior Counsel
Gaye P. Lindsey                 Senior Disbursement Officer



Project Appraisal Document               Page 68                 Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
I. Road reconstruction and maintenance plan prepared by DCTPC of Oudomxay
Province, January 1998
2. Water supply (Muang Xay) sub-component implementation plan prepared by
Nampapa Oudomxay, April 1998
3. Transport access reconstruction and maintenance plan prepared by DCTPC of
Phongsaly Province, March 1998
4. Water supply (Muang Khoua) sub-component implementation plan prepared by
DCTPC of Phongsaly Province
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Data on provincial revenue and expenditure of Phongsaly Province*
2. Data on provincial revenue and expenditure of Oudomxay Province*
C. Other
i. Project Feasibility Study, Royds Consulting (New Zealand & Laos) Ltd.,
December 1997 *
*  Volume 1: Executive Summary (English and Lao)
*  Volume 2: Socio-economic Overview
*  Volume 3: Roads and Airfield
*  Volume 4: Irrigation
*  Volume 5: Water Supply
2. The Hygiene Awareness, Sanitation and Water Supply (HASWAS) Sub-Project,
Ministry of Health with support from the UADP/World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program, RWSG-EAP, Vientiane, Lao PDR, November 1997 *
3. Community Dialogue for Informed Choice on Rural Sanitation, Prepared by
Namsaat, National Water Supply and Environmental Health Programme
(NWSEHP), with support from UNDP/World Bank Regional Water and
Sanitation Programme for East Asia and the Pacific, Lao PDR Country Office,
August 1997. *
4. MCTPC's and IJNDP's Report on Base Line Survey for the Province of
Oudomxay (March 1997)
5. UNDP's Integrated Rural Accessibility Planning: Oudomxay Province -
Provincial Summary (March 1997)
6. UNDP's Strengthening Economic and Social Management Capacity (SESMAC):
Province of Oudomxay (June 1997)
7. CCL's & Caisse Francaise de Developpement document: Province de Phongsalij -
Projet de Developpement Rural (Document de Projet, Mai 1995)
* Electronic files available.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Asof31 July, 1998
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                  IBRD        IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 15
Active Loans
LA-PE-44973   IDA30470       1998                                       SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE               0.00       34.70             0.00          34.22         0.00       0.00
LA-PE-4210    IDA29430       1997   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                    HIGHWAY IMPROV. III                 0.00      48.00             0.00          44.61         7.10       0.00
LA-PE-4208    IDA28320       1996   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                    LAND TITLING                       0.00       20.70              0.00         17.41          .82       0.00
LA-PE-4209    IDA28210       1996   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                    SAC III                            0,00       40.00             0.00          17.91       20.42        0.00
LA-PE-4200    IDA26740       1995   LAO PDR                             HEALTH SYS. REF. & M                0.00       19.20             0.00         13.58         5.34       0.00
LA-PE-4196    IDA25860       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                        FOREST MGT & CONSERV               0.00         8.70             0.00          6.11         6.26       0.00
LA-PE-4201    IDA26060       1994   GOVT OF LAOS                        H'WAY IMPROVE II                    o,00       30.00            0.00           5 .97         .67       0.00
LA-PE-4207    IDA25790       1994   GOVT OF LAO PDR                     LUANG NAMTHA PROV DEV               0.00        9.67             0.00          4.67          .91       0.00
LA-PE-4197    IDA24250       1993   GOVT. OF LAO PDR                    PROV'L GRID INTEGRAT                0.00      36.00             0.00           4.33         1.64       0.00
LA-PE-4203    IDA24880       1993   LAO PDR                             EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                0.00       19.00             0.00         12.01         6.12       0.00
Total                                                                                                       0.00     265.97              0.00        160.82        49.28       0.00
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    96.25              281.39               377.64
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 5.21                5.21
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  265.97               268.97               534.94
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :              160.82                 3.77               164.59
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS c highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0



- 70                                             Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Asof31 July, 1998
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  SEF Settha               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .71    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .71    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  SEF BAFCO                1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  SEF ENDEAVOR              .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           1.28    0.00    0.00    0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                   Page 71                          Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Annex 10
Lao PDR at a glance                                                                8/28/97
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Lao       East    Low-
PDR       Asia  Income       Development diamond*
Population mid-1 996 (millions)                         5.0     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              380        890      500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 1.9     1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (I%)                                         3.0       1.3      1.7      GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%/6)                                      2.7        1.3      1.7      per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable since 1989)                              capfta                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (%6 of population)             46
Urban population (% of total population)                22        31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        52        68        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                90        40        69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              40
Access to safe waler (% Qf population)                  41         49       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    43         17       34                Lao PDR
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)   107        117      105             LowP eR
Male                                                 123        120      112               Low-incomegroup
Female                                                92        116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                                      2.4       1.8      1.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   ..      7.0      25.6     30.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..     4.0       22.9     23.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..        ..      11.8     11.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..        ..      18.6     18.1
Current account balance/GDP                     ..    -2.1       -7.0    -12.0
Interest payments/GDP                           ..     0.0        0.3      0.4     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..    26.1      122.8    121.9
,Total debt service/exports                     ..    12.0        5.8      5.2
Present value of debtGDP                        ..       ..      42.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..    164.5                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Lao PDR
GDP                                    ..      6.1      7.0       6.8      6.2
GNP per capita                                 2.9      3.7       3.7      3.2                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(5% of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                              ..      54.1     51.9    1C
Industry                                                 ..      18.7     20.5      a
Manufacturing                                          ..      13.8      15.5     6
Services                                                 ..      27.2     27.6      2-
Private consumption                                      ..        ..       ..             91   92   93   94   95   96
General govemment consumption                            ..
Imports of goods and services                            ..      36.7     41.7               -GDI          ,GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..      4.3       3.1      2.3
Industry                                       ..    12.1        13.1     17.0
Manufacturing                                 ..    13.6       17.7      18.9
Services                                        ..     6.3       11.4      8.7
Private consumption                             ..     7.3
General govemment consumption                         -7.4
Gross domestic investment                       ..     0.7
Imports of goods asid services                 ..      6.5
Gross national product                          ..      6.1       7.0      6.8
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wdth its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Page 72                           Title: Provincial Infrastructure Project
Country: Lao PDR
Lao PDR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic pices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..      19.7     12.9      0.
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    64.8       20.2     12.9     2
Government finance                                                                 10
(% of GDP)                                                                          0
Current revenue                                ..      9.7       12.2     13.0            91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.2         2.8      3.1              -     GDPdef. - P--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -6.7       -5.6     -4.2
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                              313       323     750
Wood products                                 ..       ..        88      125
Coffee                                         .        ..       21       25
Manufactures                                                    120       92      Soo
Total imports (cif)                             .        ..       589      890
Food25
Fuel and energy                                .
Capital goods                                                                                 0
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..                                      90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..        ..        ..       ..                 o  Expors        Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP raeo (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      58       410       427                                         -
Importsof goodsand services                    ..    138         658       769         90  91   9  193   94   95   96
Resource balance                                ..    -80        -249     -342
Net income                                      ..     -18         -7       -6     -5 .
Net currenttransfers                           ..       47        131      125                                     L    i
Current account balance,                                                           -
before official capital transfers              ..    -51       -124     -223
Financing items (net)                          ..       71        139      294
Changes in net reserves                         ..    -21         -15      -71    -15 . 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)             ..       ..       93       170
Conversion rate (hocal/US$)                     *-    45.0      804.7    921.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US $)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           44      619      2,165    2,263
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                       G
IDA                                           0       27       285      335                             a33
Total debt service                              6        7         26       29                                  67
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0       *7
IDA                                           0        0         3         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 D
Official grants                              16       15        130        .                                   405
Official creditors                            5       37        75
Private creditors                             1        0         0         ..            E
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         88          ,          1445
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0         19      61       A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0        28        60      B - IDA    D- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          1        1      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        0        27        59   1_1
Interest payments                             0        0         2         2
Net transfers                                 0        0        25        57
Development Economics                                                                                                8128/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29417
' 4Ar1012'                                                                                                                                 1013'
/   NA  < \ ^ > ik          r  CHINA
MYANMAR%SpA   VIETNAM                                                     LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
r~~~~~
-I                                                                              I
-N ,)  THAIlAND         r                                                              _
N ,   .   \\    >              t a '       ''S Ou Nua
is.    \      0CA~~MBO DIAVI T                                                                                                 A
uang Gnot-Ou7
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,22, 
Ar-mopvoasprodonedby theMop Design Uniof The World B-k.  C  H  INA                                                                         f /
Tineboundaries, cobors donomootions end any other isfonmohon  _.-\                                        
showno on sthis mop do not imsply on the pont of The WVodd Ben   MAG I n| 
Groop, nytodgmen thelepolstetosofonnieny orany                                             PHO9GSALY    Ban Haf. _
endorsement or occepsonce of such Ioooclories.  .             un on-ui  ,        I  
Muang BounNu 
BanYo. P; HGON SPA L Y-
Ban Pakha1 o                                         s
MYANMAR                                                                                                       M 9uangBoun-uai  '
cli                     anso Muang                    Mai
m  -t         <,                           '                \    \>_            Wphy~~~~~~~m                   A
/               (                              i      lom~ ~~          ~     ~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N oua       '}
-2o1
21J                                                                                                                                                 21 A
ix                                                       9s                  BeMng Sac                               RUA WATE AN SANITATO
(~ ~~~un q ,                  Vuag  a<k{
VD UDOMXAY
>         ~~(MUANG X<AY)^_          ? 
\ j vFt St w u8ani.p NAPROJECT  ROADS
PROJECTAIRFIELD
-   -  __'  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
+                                 \   r~~~~~~\uang Beng    [             \          i \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL WATER AND SANITATION
X X i- ./ X OUDOMXAY / 2_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CABLE RIVER CROSSING
t   ,>   ,       .          =       ><,             >             t              :>'w, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM WITH
i01 i1--02i w f ng Houn <                          2          '                                                  103WATER TREATMENT PLANT
n lr_-_     s             N       ,           O~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
200!3,            .                                                                 .-D     SELECTED DISTRICT CAPITALS-
i ,', '2 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL ROADS
, . *    ;  s    Ls      ><u~~~~~ang Pakbvng    ~        <<NATIONAL ROADS (PAVED)
,*   , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  s  _     v                               J                  -NATIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATINL ROADS (UNPAVED)
t                     /vle,<o,< Rl/er                       g                      _-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
0  10   20   30   40   50              .DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
. , > ,/ ~~~~~~~~ J >, ~~~KILOMETERS                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
;  x > ,.   * , /     >                              y                             -"-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONALBEOUNDARIES
101                                                      102'                                                    103
AUGUST 1998



