Report No. PID4677
Project Name                     Lao-Provincial Infrastructure Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport Sector
Project ID                       LAPA42237
Borrower                         The Government of the Lao People's
Democratic Republic
Implementing Agencies            The Provinces of Phongsaly and Oudomxay
Date of this PID                 August 4, 1998
Date of  the initial PID         December 13, 1996
Projected Appraisal              April 1998
Tentative Board Date             September 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
Country Background. Lao PDR, a land-locked country with a relatively large
land area of 231,400 sq.km in relation to its small population of
approximately 4.9 million people, is poor by Asian standards with a per capita
GNP estimated at US$380 in 1996. Several economic and social conditions
currently prevailing in the country are similar in many ways to some of its
high performing Asian neighbors of over 30 years ago, i.e. high incidence of
poverty, low per capita income, predominant agricultural and rural sector,
scant availability of social and economic infrastructure, and low social
attainment.
A decade after the initiation of the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) in 1986 the
economic liberalization has been forcefully pursued without the macroeconomic
instability that has plagued many other ex-socialist nations. Achievements of
the NEM include: liberalization of most prices, elimination of subsidies to
and protection of the state enterprise sector, and alignment of exchange rate
with the market rate. With regard to external trade, virtually all
quantitative restrictions have been eliminated, tariffs have been reduced and
exporters have access to imported inputs on a free trade basis. In parallel,
the Government has been encouraging private domestic and foreign investment in
most spheres of the economy. As a result industrial investment is showing
signs of strong growth from a low base.
A cause for concern, however, is that growth has been narrowly concentrated,
both sectorally in industry and geographically in the urban areas, benefiting
only 20t of the country's population.   As shown by the Lao Social Development
Assessment and Strategy Report (August 1995) the national incidence of poverty
is high, estimated at 46w, with a clear rural-urban and regional disparity.
In rural areas the incidence of poverty is as high as 53w, whereas it is 24t
in urban areas; poverty incidence in the central region is the lowest at 40t
while it is 46t in the northern and 60t in the southern regions. While the
economic reforms undertaken since the NEM appear to have had a significant
effect on raising living standards in urban areas and in some rural areas in



proximity to cities, the rural areas, particularly in the north and the
southeast, have only been marginally benefited by the economic growth of
recent years. Agriculture, which is by far the most important source of
livelihood for the rural population, has seen a steady decline in its terms of
trade vis-a-vis industry and service sectors. This has largely canceled
incentives gained under market reforms and rendered agricultural producers
worse off compared to those engaged in other sectors. The relatively slow
growing rural economy is an ominous challenge to the hope for social
development and balanced growth in Lao PDR.
Sector Background
Main Sector Issues include: (a) the lack of responsiveness to the very basic
need for provincial and rural infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance;
(b) the piecemeal investment packages that lack coherence in their design; and
(c) the poor quality and lack of proper supervision in their work execution.
The Government recognizes the need to urgently address the issue related to
the lack of year-round road access to certain rural areas and the absence of
other basic infrastructure needed to stimulate production and market
integration along with broader development. The Lao Expenditure and
Consumption Survey (LECS) and Lao Social Indicator Survey (LSIS) of 1994-1995
found a strong relationship between the availability of rural infrastructure
and off-farm employment opportunities, farmers' integration into the market
economy and increased agricultural productivity. In turn, these conditions
are key to raising rural incomes and alleviating poverty: the surveys show a
clear correlation between the availability of rural infrastructure and per
capita expenditures. Also, they document that the rural population in the
lowest two quintiles is less well served by roads, public transport,
electricity, markets and safe water than those in the top quintiles.
Similarly, those in the lowest quintiles have less access to support
services, such as visits from extension officers. LECS/LSIS also demonstrates
that rural areas generally experience severe infrastructure constraints: More
than 30- of all villages and 22t of the population are in areas that are even
not accessible by four-wheel-drive vehicles, only 11    of the population live
in villages with electricity and only 7t are in villages with a permanent
market.
The immediate problem is the rudimentary state of basic infrastructure and its
negative effect on agricultural productivity. However, given the country's
underlying comparative advantage in agriculture sector, there is great
potential to improve productivity in rice production, so long as demand and
supply factors are appropriate. However, farmers would have no incentive to
increase production beyond that required for domestic consumption if the
surplus cannot be marketed. Thus, basic infrastructure must be installed to
ensure easier and more cost effective market access as well as to improve the
livelihood of the rural population.
Government strategy. Since early 1994, the Government has committed itself to
addressing issues of rural development. It emphasized more investment in
basic provincial infrastructure, especially transport infrastructure that is
crucial to successfully developing the isolated mountainous provinces that
cannot be reached for at least six months a year. Following the Fifth Plenum
of the Party Central Committee in March 1994, the Politburo issued a
Resolution on Rural Development which presented the policy for up to 2000.
Its main strategy was to extend economic reforms to rural areas, particularly
to those inhabited by ethnic minorities. The investment plan involves
- 2-



integrated rural development with more participation from local governments
and communities; it would provide social and economic infrastructure and
support services in well-defined areas, to allow rural residents to move from
subsistence to commercialized production. It would also decentralize
administrative power to local governments.
2.      Objectives
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower strengthen the local
institutional capacity and rehabilitate and upgrade critical basic
infrastructure of its remote northern Provinces of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, so
as to reduce the poverty conditions and improve the standard of living and
socio-economic potential of the poor inhabitants of these provinces and
gradually integrate them into the Borrower's national economy.
The choice of the two northern provinces was based on a preliminary analysis
of road network density, a revenue and capital investment plan, and income and
poverty indicators disaggregated at the provincial level. Originally, a short
list of four provinces (excluding Luang Prabang) was submitted to the
Government, which ultimately decided to direct the Bank's investment to
Phongsaly and Oudomxay provinces. The analysis showed that the five northern
provinces of Oudomxay, Phongsaly, Huaphanh, Xayabury and Luang Prabang are
among the poorest in terms of per capita GDP, and receive net transfers from
the Government for the provincial admin. budget.
3.      Description. The proposed project is designed to provide basic
infrastructure to the two remote northern provinces of Oudomxay and Phongsaly,
and thus help the poor population in those isolated areas realize their
economic potential, raise their incomes, improve their standard of living and
become integrated in the national economy. The availability of necessary
infrastructure would in turn facilitate investments by other donors in
additional resource development and social sector activities.
Due to a lack of resources and weak provincial institutions, the project
design has been kept relatively simple with selective geographical and
sectoral coverage. It would include the following main components
Transport Access: Improving physical access including rehabilitating and
maintaining roads and constructing an airfield and river crossing. It also
includes developing local private contractors.
Township Water Supply: Providing sufficient township water supplies of
reliable quality. This will reduce the time residents spend seeking water and
provide them with an amount and quality that will meet their basic health and
hygiene needs
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation: Providing water and sanitation to rural
areas and promoting hygiene awareness; also, forming community user groups to
manage and maintain the facilities provided under the project.
Institutional Strengthening: Capacity Building/ strengthening of local
governments. This will improve the planning and operational ability of the
technical and administrative organs of local governments to execute and
monitor provincial investment projects.
4.      Financing.    A project cost of US$31.07 million of which about US$27.76
million will be funded by IDA, US$2.67 million by Government and US$0.652
million by local beneficiaries.
Financing Plan
-3-



Component       Category         Cost Incl.        of Total   IDA-        Financing
Contingencies                Financing
(US$M)                      US$M)
Transport        Physical,       23.34            74.8        21.41       92.1
Access           project
mgmt.
Township         Physical,       3.99             12.8         3.66       91.7
Water            project
Supply          mgmt.
Rural Water      Physical,       2.94*            9.4          2.04       69.4
Supply          policy,
and             and
Sanitation      project
mgmt.
Institutional    Institution      0.90          3.0            0.65       71.1
Strengthening   building,
project
mgmt.
31.07            100.0        27.76      89.3
Total
Note: * includes community contributions of US$0.652 million.
5.      Implementation. The implementation period is December 1998 to May 2006.
The provincial governments of Oudomxay and Phongsaly will be responsible for
executing the project, with assistance, especially on technical issues, from
the central line ministries, including MOF, MCTPC, Nampapa Lao and Namsaat.
The project will be the training ground that will provide the executing
agencies with the skills they need to eventually plan, implement and monitor
future investments.
The provincial DCTPCs, with some technical support from MCTPC, will execute
the transport access component. The provincial Nampapa, which reports to the
provincial DCTPC, will be responsible for the township water supply component.
The provincial Namsaat, with significant support from the central agency, will
be responsible for the rural water and sanitation component. Under each line
department, a component implementation unit (CIU) will be established with
direct responsibility to implement its investment activities. The provincial
DPC will be involved indirectly as the investment planner and advisor to the
provincial governor: It will coordinate the project's various aspects, which
cut across different sectors, to ensure that counterpart funds are available,
and to consolidate project progress reports and technical and financial audits
(see Box 4).
6.      Sustainability. Sustainability of this kind of basic rural infrastructure
project is related to local ownership and the technical/financial ability to
maintain the asset after the investment is completed. To achieve
sustainability, the project was designed as follows: (a) it is geographically
- 4 -



concentrated to facilitate supervision of the local implementing agencies;
(b) it will train local government officials, contractors and community
groups so that the capacity to maintain the infrastructure at the local level
can be enhanced; (c) it will strengthen the institutional and human resources
of the local governments so the basic infrastructure can be properly planned
and financed; and (d) preparation involved a series of participatory and
interactive workshops with national, provincial, and district stakeholders, to
foster local ownership.
7.      Lessons learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
[Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the
Bank and other development agencies.]The conclusion in the May 1995 Country
Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) indicated that projects focusing on a few
key objectives and whose interventions were limited to a few geographic areas
had the best chance of succeeding; also, that not all implementation problems
can be blamed on lack of capacity: In a few cases, expectations (by both the
Government and the Bank) in the original design with regard to objectives and
time frames needed to achieve them were unrealistic.
Experiences from two ongoing rural infrastructure projects, the Upland
Agriculture Development (UADP) and Luang Namtha Provincial Development (LNPDP)
projects, confirm some of the CPPR's conclusions:
(a)     Investment should be carefully defined, prioritized and focused.    In
the UADP, which has been less successful, the original design included over
800 km of access road, 5 schemes of small scale irrigation, agriculture
research and extension, rural credit, village water supply, studies and TA,
spread over four provinces in the central and southern regions. In the LNPDP,
the design was much simpler, with the investment focused in one relatively
poor northern province. Activities were limited to constructing roads, water
supply system, and included a major TA component which has helped strengthen
the provincial government's administrative functioning.
(b)    Capacity building should be an integral part of investment.
Although the Government seems committed to reforms and new development
concepts, the lack of local capacity to plan, coordinate and implement the
fruits of those ideas is the greatest bottleneck. Also problematic are the
highly fragmented service delivery systems, and a heavy donor presence but
weak absorptive capacity for external funds. As it takes decades for
countries at the development level of Lao PDR to acquire a cadre of qualified
staff, building capacity and training will be integral parts of all IDA
ongoing and planned operations.
(c)     Design of the TA component should be broadened to focus on
strengthening provincial administrative organs so the project would be part of
daily operations and not a special unit created solely to supervise the
investment.
(d)     Consultation with provincial work units and beneficiary groups should be
done early for project planning, implementation and O&M to ensure continuity
and sustainability after the project is completed.
(e)     Close coordination with the provincial and national SPC and MOF
during project preparation is important to ensure it is included in the
national investment plan; this way, recurrent expenditures and counterpart
funds would be available when the project becomes effective. Availability of
local counterpart funds is a generic issue for project implementation in Lao
so far, and the first couple of years of the LNPDP revealed how difficult it
is for provincial governments to ensure adequate budgets.
- 5 -



However, both projects share similar problems with respect to the extreme
shortage of qualified staff at the provincial level and therefore will have to
rely heavily on consultants, mainly foreign, to run the TA component.
Unfortunately, it is very difficult for Lao PDR to attract good quality
foreign consultants. Partly this is because of the language problem and
partly because its neighbor, Vietnam, is more attractive to the better-
qualified consultants.
Based on these lessons, the project was designed to: (a) concentrate
investments in only two provinces; (b) carefully define, prioritize and select
only two basic infrastructure activities to be funded; (c) focus the TA on
strengthening provincial administrative organs so the project would be part of
daily operations and not a special unit created solely to supervise the
investment; (d) consult with provincial work units and beneficiary groups
early in the project preparation stage; and (e) periodically inform SPC and
MOF regarding the progress of project preparation to ensure that the project
is included in the national investment plan and that recurrent expenditures
and counterpart funds would be available when the project becomes effective.
8.      Poverty Category. The link between rural infrastructure and poverty is
straightforward: People cannot benefit from services and employment
opportunities if they have limited access to roads. In addition, their health
problems cannot be resolved if they have no access to clean water and improved
sanitation. Thus, the Bank's strategy is to help the Government design a plan
to develop rural infrastructure--one that ensures that quality is achieved at
the lowest cost. The project follows the Agriculture Sector Memorandum (1995),
Poverty Assessment (1996) and study on Priorities for Rural Infrastructure
Development (1997). It is also consistent with the country's resolution to
invest in well-focused rural development projects and draw maximum
participation from local authorities and communities.
9.      Environmental Aspects. Environmental Category B. The engineering and
design work done during project preparation offers an assessment of the
project's environmental impacts, confirming that it will not affect
ecologically sensitive areas and that impacts will be minor. IDA will review
bidding documents to ensure the works will be executed in an environmentally
acceptable manner. Since the roads will be rehabilitated within the existing
alignment, no resettlement and land acquisition are anticipated. The airfield
and related access road in Phongsaly will affect 21 families resulting in loss
of 5.18 ha of paddy field but will not require physical relocation. The
township water supply component in Muang Xai in Oudomxay and Muang Khoua in
Phongsaly will affect two families one of which will have to physically
relocate. In the design of the project it has been the Lao Government's
policy to try to avoid loss of assets. When selecting the location for the
airfield and related access road, and the water treatment plants and river
intakes, consideration was given to avoiding gardens, dense forest, houses,
etc. as much as possible. The design of the project was conducted in such a
way that impacts on lives and incomes of affected people were brought to a
minimum. A Plan for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement (PLACR) in
this regard has been agreed by Government and is in line with the Bank's OD
4.30 June 1990 on Involuntary Resettlement
10.     Program Objective Categories. The project is a poverty alleviation
project.
-6-



Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998
- 7 -



Annex
Environmental Category B. The engineering and design work done during project
preparation offers an assessment of the project's environmental impacts,
confirming that it will not affect ecologically sensitive areas and that
impacts will be minor. IDA will review bidding documents to ensure the works
will be executed in an environmentally acceptable manner. Since the roads
will be rehabilitated within the existing alignment, no resettlement and land
acquisition are anticipated. The airfield and related access road in Phongsaly
will affect 21 families resulting in loss of 5.18 ha of paddy field but will
not require physical relocation. The township water supply component in Muang
Xai in Oudomxay and Muang Khoua in Phongsaly will affect two families one of
which will have to physically relocate. In the design of the project it has
been the Lao Government's policy to try to avoid loss of assets. When
selecting the location for the airfield and related access road, and the water
treatment plants and river intakes, consideration was given to avoiding
gardens, dense forest, houses, etc. as much as possible. The design of the
project was conducted in such a way that impacts on lives and incomes of
affected people were brought to a minimum. A Plan for Land Acquisition,
Compensation and Resettlement (PLACR) in this regard has been agreed by
Government and is in line with the Bank's OD 4.30 June 1990 on Involuntary
Resettlement
-8-



