Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3131 LA
Project Agreement
(Provincial Infrastructure Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF OUDOMXAY
and
PROVINCE OF PHONGSALY
Dated December 21, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER  3131 LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated, December 21, 1998, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the “Association”) and PROVINCE OF OUDOMXAY (“Oudomxay”) and PROVINCE OF PHONGSALY 
(“Phongsaly”).
WHEREAS: (A)
By the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (the “Borrower”) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 20,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly agree to 
undertake their respective obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (B) Oudomxay and Phongsaly, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake their respective obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, Oudomxay shall carry out Part A of the Project and 
Phongsaly shall carry out part B of the Project both with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, construction, financial, 
engineering, environmental and public utility practices, and each of Oudomxay and 
Phongsaly shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A and B of the Project, 
respectively.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall otherwise 
agree, Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project, 
respectively, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A and B 
of the Project, respectively.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and 
each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, a plan 
for the future operation of Parts A and 
B of the Project, 
respectively; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with each of 
Oudomxay and Phongsaly on each said plan.
Section 2.03. (a) Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 
A and B of the Project, respectively, the performance of their respective obligations 
under this Agreement, and such other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A or B 
of the Project, respectively, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by Oudomxay or Phongsaly of any of its respective obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, of their corresponding departments or 
agencies responsible for carrying out said Parts of the project, or any part thereof.
Page  3
(b) 
Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  4
For Oudomxay:
Governor of the Province of Oudomxay
Province of Oudomxay
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
For Phongsaly:
Governor of the Province of Phongsaly
Province of Phongsaly
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Section 5.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Oudomxay, may 
be taken or executed by the Governor of Oudomxay, or such other person or persons as 
said Governor shall designate in writing, and Oudomxay shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Phongsaly, may be taken 
or executed by the Governor of Phongsaly, or such other person or persons as said 
Governor shall designate in writing, and Phongsaly shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PROVINCE OF OUDOMXAY
By /s/ Vanvang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
PROVINCE OF PHONGSALY
By /s/  Vanvang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Page  5
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
“Guidelines”) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: 
National Competitive Bidding and International Shopping 
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Goods (other than vehicles) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty 
thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed one 
hundred sixty thousand dollars ($160,000) equivalent, and small scale works estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
Vehicles, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed two hundred ten thousand 
dollars ($210,000) equivalent, shall be procured through the United Nations 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) per contract to be procured 
under Part C (1) of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more per contract, the following procedures 
shall apply: (i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; (ii)
 prior to the execution of any contract 
procured under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (iii)
the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
Page  6
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the “Consultant Guidelines”) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services in respect of rural water supply estimated to cost less than one 
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services other than in respect of rural water supply estimated to cost less than 
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, 
but less than the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Section 1.
Until completion of the Project, Oudomxay shall maintain the 
Oudomxay-PIUs vested with such responsibilities, funds, staff and other requisite 
resources as shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall take all measures 
necessary to enable said PIUs to undertake the overall day-to-day supervision and 
coordination of  their respective components of Part A of the Project in full 
coordination with the Oudomxay Provincial Division of Communication, Transport, Post 
and Construction, and otherwise under the overall policy guidance of the MCTPC and the 
MOPH through Namsaat. 
Section 2.
Until completion of the Project, Phongsaly shall maintain the 
Phongsaly-PIUs vested with such responsibilities, funds, staff and other requisite 
resources as shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall take all measures 
necessary to enable said PIUs to undertake the overall day-to-day supervision and 
coordination of  their respective components of Part B of the Project in full 
coordination with the Phongsaly Provincial Division of Communication, Transport, Post 
and Construction, and otherwise under the overall policy guidance of the MCTPC and the 
MOPH through Namsaat.
Section 3.
Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the Plan for Land 
Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement with due diligence and efficiency, 
including (but without limitation) the acquisition of land and resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
implementation of said Plan.
Section 4.
Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the training 
activities under their respective Parts of the Project in accordance with an annual 
training program to be furnished to the Association for prior approval not later than 
April 30 in each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal Year 1999.
Section 5.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall:
(a)
Maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with the Project Performance Indicators set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement, the progress achieved in carrying out Parts A and B of the 
Project, respectively.
(b)
Prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) an annual report, not later than 
November 30 in each Fiscal Year, beginning Fiscal Year 1998, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above 
in respect of the preceding Fiscal year, and setting forth proposed measures, as 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
the Project; and (ii) a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 2001, setting forth 
any proposed measures, as indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to 
further the objectives of the Project.
(c)
Exchange views with the Association on each report furnished pursuant to 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and thereafter take all measures in relation thereto 
as shall have been agreed between the Association and each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, 
respectively.
Page  8
Section 6.
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Article III 
of this Agreement, Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall at all times carry out the Financial 
Management Plan with due diligence and efficiency. Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall 
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the implementation of said Plan. 
Section 7.
Oudomxay and Phongsaly shall take all action necessary to ensure that the 
construction, rehabilitation, improvement and installation works, to be carried out 
under Parts (A) (1), (A) (2) and (A) (3) and Parts (B) (1), (B) (2) and (B) (3) of the 
Project, respectively, shall be carried out in a manner which at all times ensures 
that any adverse environmental impact is effectively mitigated in a timely manner 
which is acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 3 
Project Performance Indicators
Output Date
5/31/01
5/31/03
5/31/05
I.  Transport Access Length of road rehabilitated (in kilometers)
40
100
180
220
260
280
No. of maintenance contracts awarded 
6
10
12
14
16
18
Output Completion Date
I.  Transport Access 
Airfield construction 
5/31/02
Cable river crossing system 
5/31/00
5/31/00
5/31/02
Construction of water supply system for M. Khoua
5/31/01
Output Date
5/31/01
5/31/03
5/31/05
III.  Provision of Rural Water Supply, Latrine, Sanitation, and Washing Facilities No. 
of communities with RWSS program initiated 
Page  9
20
50
90
130
170
Output Completion Date
IV.  Institutional Strengthening
6 Scholarships awarded
Output
5/31/00
5/31/02
5/31/04
3
6
10
15
18
20
