Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3131 LA
Development Credit Agreement
(Provincial Infrastructure Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 21, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3131 LA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1998, between LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
(the “Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).
WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s 
Province of Oudomxay (“Oudomxay”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Oudomxay a portion of the proceeds of 
the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS: (C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s 
Province of Phongsaly (“Phongsaly”) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Phongsaly a portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (D) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the “General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the implementation of 
the Project,  has or  would  have  his or her: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work, or place 
of residence or habitat adversely affected, and the term "Affected Persons” means, 
collectively, more than one Affected Person; 
(b)
"BCEL" means the Borrower's Banque du Commerce Exterieur Lao; 
(c)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term “Categories” means more than one 
Category; 
(d)
“Financial Management Plan” means the time-bound action plan for the 
management and monitoring of Project financial records and accounts, adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Decision No. 1208/MOF dated August 25, 1998, and satisfactory to 
the Association, to be carried out by Oudomxay and Phongsaly in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 6 of the Implementation Program, as such Plan may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the Association;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's, Oudomxay’s and Phongsaly’s financial years, which period commences on 
October 1 and ends on September 30 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" 
means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
(f)
“Implementation Program” means the program for implementing the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(g)
“MCTPC” means the Borrower's Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post 
and Construction, and such term includes any successor thereto; 
(h)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and such term includes 
any successor thereto; 
(i)
“MOPH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Health, and such term 
includes any successor thereto; 
(j)
“Nampapa Lao” means the Borrower's National Water Supply Enterprise, 
established and operating under the MCTPC pursuant to Decree No. 021/CBLC of the 
Borrower's Central Business Leading Committee, dated February 18, 1987, and charged 
with the responsibility of developing and operating the Borrower's urban water supply, 
and such term includes any successor thereto;
(k)
“Namsaat” means the Borrower’s Institute of Clean Water, established 
within MOPH, and such term includes any successor thereto; 
(l)
“Oudomxay” means the Borrower’s Province of Oudomxay, an administrative 
sub-division of the Borrower, and such term includes any successor thereto; 
(m)
“Oudomxay-PIUs” means the Project implementation units established by 
Oudomxay, pursuant to the Oudomxay Governor’s Decision No. 311/OG, dated June 12, 
1998, and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the 
Implementation Program; 
(n)
“Phongsaly” means the Borrower’s Province of Phongsaly, an administrative 
Page  3
sub-division of the Borrower, and such term includes any successor thereto; 
(o)
“Phongsaly-PIUs” means the Project implementation units established by 
Phongsaly, pursuant to the Phongsaly Governor’s Decision No. 260/OG, dated May 13, 
1998, and to be maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the 
Implementation Program; 
(p)
“Plan for Land Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement” means the Plan 
for the acquisition of land and provision of compensation to Affected Persons adopted 
by the Borrower, pursuant to Decision No. 1209/MOF dated August 25, 1998, and 
acceptable to the Association, to be carried out by Oudomxay and Phongsaly in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of the Implementation Program, as such 
Plan may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association;
(q)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and each 
of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement; and 
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 20,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a separate special deposit account in BCEL on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2006, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing November 15, 2008 and ending May 15, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause Oudomxay to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all of the obligations of Oudomxay therein set forth in respect of Part A of 
the Project; and (ii) cause Phongsaly to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all of the obligations of Phongsaly therein set forth in respect 
of Part B of the Project; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, construction, financial, engineering, environmental and 
public utility practices. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Oudomxay and Phongsaly to perform such obligations, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
Page  5
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by Oudomxay and in respect of Part B of the Project shall 
be carried out by Phongsaly, all pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the  Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including MOF) responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
(1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal 
Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, and those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Oudomxay or Phongsaly shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Oudomxay or Phongsaly will be able to perform its respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have entered into the necessary 
agreements, acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, with a duly qualified consultancy 
firm for the provision of technical assistance services in respect of Parts A (1), A 
(2), A (3), B (1), B (2) and B (4) of the Project. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, and is legally 
binding upon each of Oudomxay and Phongsaly in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANCE
4369
VIENTIANE
MOF LS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Vanvang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By
 /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
  12,170,000
90%
Page  8
(2)
Goods
   1,270,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 90% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services   3,490,000
100%
(including training)
(4)
Operating Costs
     220,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
   3,550,000
   _________
TOTAL
  20,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means payments made for expenditures on 
account of the operating costs of the Oudomxay-PIUs and the Phongsaly-PIUs, including 
costs for Project-related office equipment, supplies, vehicles and connected 
facilities, and on account of Project staff travel, but excluding costs incurred in 
respect of any salaries. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (b) works 
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars 
($500,000) each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms 
costing less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) each; (d) 
consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less 
than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (e) training; and (f) 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower strengthen the local 
institutional capacity and rehabilitate and upgrade critical basic infrastructure of 
its remote northern Provinces of Oudomxay and Phongsaly, so as to reduce the poverty 
conditions and improve the standard of living and socio-economic potential of the poor 
inhabitants of these provinces and gradually integrate them into the Borrower’s 
national economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Province of Oudomxay Infrastructure Improvements and Institutional 
Strengthening
1.
Rehabilitation of: (i) about one hundred thirty-nine kilometers (139 km) of Road 
Page  9
No. 2W between Muang Xai and Pakbeng; and (ii) about fifty-two kilometers (52 km) of 
Road No. 2E between Muang Xai and Phongsaly provincial border.
2.
Carrying out a program of road emergency spot improvement works on the sections 
of the roads referred to in Part A (1) above.
3.
Upgrading of water supply system in Muang Xai, including installation of a water 
treatment plant, and construction of an extension to the local office of Nampapa Lao 
Muang Xai branch.
4.
Provision of community rural water supply, latrine, sanitation and washing 
facilities, and construction, management and maintenance of said facilities on a 
cost-effective sustainable basis by local community user groups.
5.
Provision of goods (including vehicles, soil and material testing, road survey 
and construction quality control equipment) and office equipment and supplies as 
required to carry out the foregoing.
6.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Oudomxay’s provincial government 
technical and administrative authorities to budget, manage, implement, monitor and 
evaluate provincial investment projects, and related financial accounts and systems, 
through the provision of consultants’ services, workshops, scholarships and training.
Part B:
Province of Phongsaly Infrastructure Improvements and Institutional 
Strengthening
1.
Rehabilitation of: (i) about forty kilometers (40 km) of Road No. 19 between 
Boun Neua and Ban Pakha; (ii) about forty-eight kilometers (48 km) of Road No. 2E 
between Oudomxay provincial border and Muang Khoua; and (iii) the Boun Neua Airfield, 
including access road and bridge thereto.
2.
Construction of cable river crossing system in Muang Khoua linking Road No. 2E 
between Oudomxay provincial border through Muang Khoua toward Taichang.
3.
Carrying out a program of road emergency spot improvement works on (i) the roads 
referred to in Part B (1) above and (ii) on Road No. 2E between Muang Khoua and 
Taichang.
4.
Upgrading the water supply system in Muang Khoua, including installation of a 
water treatment plant and construction of a local office for  Nampapa Lao Muang Khoua 
branch.
5.
Provision of community rural water supply, latrine, sanitation and washing 
facilities, and construction, management and maintenance of said facilities on a 
cost-effective sustainable basis by local community user groups.
6.
Provision of goods (including vehicles, soil and material testing, road survey 
and construction quality control equipment) and office equipment and supplies as 
required to carry out the foregoing.
7.
Provision of road maintenance vehicles and equipment (including a loader, an 
excavator and trucks).
8.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of Phongsaly’s provincial government 
technical and administrative authorities to budget, manage, implement, monitor and 
evaluate provincial investment projects, and related financial accounts and systems, 
through the provision of consultants’ services, workshops, scholarships and training.
************** 
The Project is expected to be completed by May 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
(a)
The term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation for the Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of four million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 4,000,000). 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
Page  11
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
respective Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
