Document of
FrLE CO PY  The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2265-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 5, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -      Kina (K)
KR                 -       $1.37
$1                        K 0.73
K 1,000,000        =       $1,370,000
ABBREVIATIONS
Council -  Local government council
AFTSEMU - Agricultural Field Trials, Studies, Extension
and Monitoring Unit
HQPCC   -  Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
HQPM    - Headquarters Project Manager
PNG     -  Papua New Guinea
PNGBC   - Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation
PNGDB   - Papua New Guinea Development Bank
PPCC    - Provincial Project Coordinating Committee
PPM     - Provincial Project Manager
SHDC    -  Southern Highlands Development Corporation
(Holdings) Pty. Ltd.
SHMA    -  Southern Highlands Management Authority
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Amount:          $20.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard.
Onlending:      An amount of $3.6 million from the credit would be chan-
nelled through the PNG Development Bank or the PNG Banking
Corporation to finance cash crop development. The interest
rate to subborrowers would be the prevailing commercial rate
for this type of lending (presently about 9%), with maturi-
ties of up to 15 years, including up to 5 years of grace,
depending on the subborrower and the crop. Terms for
onlending of funds to the PNG Development Bank and the PNG
Banking Corporation would be the commercial rate which
applies to their subloans, minus an average spread of 3%;
onlending would be amortized in accordance with the amorti-
zation schedules applicable to the subloans. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The Southern Highlands Province is one of the poorest
provinces in PNG. It has a population of about 235,000 (8%
of the national total), and the vast majority have a way of
life which has remained unchanged since neolithic times.
Basic needs such as food, education, health, clothing and
shelter are less adequately met in the province than in
almost any other region of PNG. The proposed project would
help the Government in its efforts to promote development in
the province. It would provide improved access to education
and health services, lay the foundation for improved agricul-
tural practices and nutrition in the future, and raise cash
incomes. The risk of not achieving project objectives or
rate of return is no greater than can normally be expected
with operations of this type. Specifically, the project
would include:
(a) development of knowledge about, and capacity to effect,
improvements in the subsistence sector through the establish-
ment of an Agricultural Field Trials, Studies, Extension and
Monitoring Unit;
(b)  establishment of about 1,280 ha of coffee, 850 ha of tea,
and the related processing and support services;
(c) establishment of 100 ha of cardamoms;
(d) expansion of the infant silk industry;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(e) construction of 60 km of electricity transmission line mainly
to supply power to the coffee mill and tea factory;
(f) construction and operation of a nursing school and in-service
training complex, three health subcenters, and support for a
data collection and epidemiology unit;
(g) upgrading and construction of 138 km of main road, 40.5 km
of feeder road, and the installation of small bridges and
culverts on about 900 km of minor feeder roads;
(h) construction and operation of two secondary schools, and
provision of materials to provincial primary and secondary
schools and the teachers college; and
(i) strengthening the staff devoted to nonformal education.
Estimated Cost: The table below summarizes the total cost of the project.
Local       Foreign        Total
-------- ($ million) ----------
Nutrition/subsistence             1.1            0.9          2.0
Coffee                            1.2            1.2          2.4
Tea                               2.4            2.5          4.9
Cardamoms                         0.1            0.1          0.2
Silk                              0.3            0.2          0.5
Electrification                   0.4            0.2          0.6
Health                            1.5            1.0          2.5
Roads                             4.5            5.0          9.5
Formal Education                  0.8            0.5          1.3
Nonformal Education               0.5            0.3          0.8
Management                        0.3            0.3          0.6
Subtotal:  base cost       13.1           12.2         25.3
Physical contingencies            0.9            0.9          1.8
Expected price increases          2.7            2.4         5.1
Total project cost         16.7           15.5         32.2
Financing Plan:
Government                      8.4            -           8.4
IDA                             4.5          15.5         20.0
Beneficiaries                   3.8            -           3.8



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:  IDA FY          1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
-------------- ($ million) --------------
Annual        1.0    2.8    5.2    5.2    4.0    1.8
Cumulative   1.0    3.8    9.0   14.2   18.2   20.0
Rate of Return:              The weighted average for the coffee, tea, cardamom,
silk, and road components (69% of project base cost)
is 13%; quantification of benefits was not attempted
for the other components.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 1985-PNG, dated June 22, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
Cr T771 T'vmRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Papua New Guinea (PNG) for the equivalent of
$20.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a rural development
project. From the credit proceeds about $3.6 million would be channeled
through the PNG Development Bank (PNGDB) and the PNG Banking Corporation
(PNGBC) for cash crop development. This amount would be made available to
PNGDB and PNGBC at the commercial rate which applies to their subloans
(presently about 9%), minus an average spread of 3%, and would be amortized
in accordance with the amortization schedules applicable to the subloans.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited Papua New Guinea (PNG) in early 1976,
and its report (No. 1150-PNG), "Papua New Guinea: Economic Situation and
Development Prospects," was dated July 14, 1976. A smaller mission in late
1976 led to the writing of a Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 1428-PNG),
which was dated October 5, 1977. The following discussion of the economy of
PNG is based on these two reports. Country Data Sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        Papua New Guinea achieved internal self-government on December 1,
1973, and independence from Australia on September 16, 1975. It is a land of
mountainous terrain, endowed with reasonably good soils, abundant rainfall,
considerable mineral resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good
commercial potential. The capital city, Port Moresby, is the largest urban
settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Only seven
towns have more than 10,000 inhabitants. Of the arable land, 90% is still
under subsistence agriculture, and 60% to 70% of the population are subsis-
tence farmers, many of whom have only recently emerged from a neolithic
culture.
4.        The most striking feature of the economy is the contrast between
the relatively small modern monetary sector and the subsistence sector.
Papua New Guinea is a clear example of a dual economy. This dualism is well
recognized by the Government, and the economic policies which have been
developed since independence are directed towards reducing the contrasts
between the modern and the subsistence sectors and directing development
efforts towards the latter. The modern sector consists of a large copper
mine, contributing about 20% to 25% of the GDP; the government sector and
a variety of small manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, tourism,
banking and insurance, contributing another 50% of the GDP. Agriculture,
forestry and fisheries provide the remaining 25-30% of the GDP mainly
/1 Parts I and II are essentially the same as those contained in the
President's Report (No. 2283-PNG, dated April 3, 1978), for the Second
Ports Project which was approved on April 18, 1978.



- 2 -
within a subsistence form of production. Within this structure, subsistence
agriculture is slowly being converted into a subsistence-plus-cash-crop
agriculture; cash-crop farming is predominantly export oriented, and the
500 to 600 plantations are completely export oriented. The main agricultural
exports are coffee, cocoa, and copra.
5.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the Bougainville
copper mine which came into production in 1972.  However, the dualistic
nature of the economy predates the mine. Before independence, the Government
was staffed entirely by Australians whose salary levels were determined by
Australian conditions. Similarly, the commercial sector was oriented to
meeting the needs of expatriates, including both the civil service and the
owners and managers of plantations. The level of public services provided
could not be financed by local revenues and was supported by subventions from
Australia. The modern sector was heavily dependent upon imports which were
also financed by the support from Australia. This situation continued after
independence, with the Australian grant now formalized under an agreement
which covers a five-year period.
6.        Real GDP in Papua New Guinea grew at  an average of more than 8%
per annum during the period 1967/68 to 1973/74. This growth was led by the
monetary sector, growing at over 10% per annum, while the subsistence sector
grew at less than 1% per annum. As a result, the share in GDP of the subsis-
tence sector declined by about one-half to its present level of about one-
fifth. Real GDP fell in both 1974/75 and 1975/76, but improvements in the
world economy, particularly rising prices for PNG's major exports, contributed
to a more favorable economic performance in 1976/77. The growth rate of the
indigenous population is at present about 2.6% per annum, an increase over the
2.5% per annum rate of ten years ago, due mainly to a halving of the infant/child
mortality rate. Per capita GNP in 1976 was $?490, but this average includes
the high-income expatriate sector. The per capita GNF of the local population
in the subsistence sector is probably no more than $200 per capita.
7.        The dependence of the economy upon the outside world is reflected
in a structural balance of payments deficit. The need to import most
of the capital and consumer goods required, including food, has meant that
there is normally a current account deficit. Exports consisted, until 1972,
of a few agricultural commodities total value of which covered about half
the total import bill. The other half was covered by the Australian
grant. After the Bougainville copper mine came into production in April
1972, the 1972/73 level of agricultural exports of about $90 million was
suddenly dwarfed by copper exports of more than $200 million, and PNG's
traditionally negative trade balance became positive. However, in 1974,
copper prices fell sharply, and copper's contribution to the country's
exports dropped from 70% to about 50%.
8.        The Bougainville copper mine has played an important role in the
country's economy through its impact upon exports and public finances.
As an enclave operation its contribution to employment has been small.
Mining's share in GDP rose from 2% in 1968/69 to 32% in 1973/74. The impact
of Bougainville on national investment was aLso large; during the construction
phase, it accounted for nearly 60% of all fixed capital formation in the



- 3 -
country. As indicated above, the impact on exports has been enormous; between
1972 and 1975, the copper mine doubled PNG's export earnings. Furthermore,
the growth of exports from the mine has accounted for the bulk of incremental
GDP in the last few years. Papua New Guinea receives a fair share of the
earnings from the Bougainville mine as a result of the renegotiation of the
agreement with the operating company in 1974. Furthermore, the impact of
fluctuating copper earnings on the Government's budget has been stabilized
through the operation of the Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund established
in 1974.  Payments into the fund include the revenues from company income and
excess profits taxes, Government dividends, and the proceeds of the withhold-
ing tax on dividends paid overseas. These funds are then transferred in
predetermined amounts to the budget, where they are used according to
Government priorities. Another large copper mine is expected to be con-
structed within the next few years, and its operation will be governed by an
agreement similar to that reached in Bougainville.
9.        Government activities are the second most important influence in
the economy. Real expenditures by the Government increased at a rate of close
to 5% per annum during the past five years. This rise was mainly the result
of a substantial increase in current outlays, dominated by wages and salaries
(45-50% of total current expenditures), and the purchase of goods and ser-
vices (35-40%). Government employment of staff grew at close to 6% per annum
from 1971 to 1975 and, simultaneously, there were substantial increases in
wage and salary levels, influenced by strong trade union traditions which had
been introduced before independence. However, internal revenues have grown
at a faster rate than have expenditures, but not sufficiently to offset
the current account deficit, which is met by grants from Australia.
10.       PNG benefits greatly from Australian assistance, both financial and
technical, although the relative importance of such assistance is declining.
Australian grants provided 42% of the 1976/77 budget, down from the 70%
provided in 1963. The commencement of copper production in 1972 contributed
to the decreased dependence on Australia by expanding domestic revenues by
about one third. Under the terms of a recent agreement, Australia's aid
program for PNG for the period 1976-81 will amount to approximately A$1 bil-
lion ($1.1 billion). Subsequent to the agreement, a series of revaluations
of the kina relative to the Australian dollar have reduced the kina value of
Australian aid, but this loss should be partially compensated by lower prices
on goods imported from Australia, PNG's major trading partner.
11.       Papua New Guinea's dependence on outsiders for its technical
expertise is gradually declining. Expatriates, largely Australians, accounted
for 11% of the Government staff as of April 1977, compared to 20% in 1971.
In the private sector, many senior administrative, professional, and higher
technical posts are also now filled by expatriates. The Government attaches
great importance to restraining both employment and salary increases, and has
recently taken steps to ensure such restraint. It has also placed a high
priority on technical education to train Papua New Guineans to replace the
higher paid expatriates.
12.       A few large-scale natural resource-based projects, such as the
expected new copper mine at Ok Tedi and a possible hydropower scheme along



-4-
the Purari River, will be encouraged as the main sources of revenue to reduce
reliance on foreign aid. A recent government policy statement, however, calls
for the concentration of a higher proportion of the nation's resources in
rural areas (see Part III - The Rural Sector). These policies reflect a sub-
stantial shift of emphasis in comparison with the First Five-Year Development
Plan (1969-73), which concentrated on the build-up of infrastructure and the
development of the modern sector of the economy.
13.       Papua New Guinea faces special problems of nationhood arising from
its geographical situation, an archipelago of islands without developed
transport links. Its people also come from diverse cultural and ethnic
backgrounds. In order to respond to these characteristics and to tap local
initiatives, Papua New Guinea is introducing a system of provincial govern-
ments. The aim is to devise a workable system which does not give rise
to a costly government structure, but which gives local people the respon-
sibility for initiating and implementing development projects. These devel-
opments should reinforce the central government policies to give priority to
development outside the modern sector.
14.       Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1976,
amounted to $336 million, of which $96.6 million was owed to the Bank
Group. Public debt service payments in 1975/76 were about 5% of the gross
value of exports of goods and nonfactor services. Debt payments to the Bank
Group were only about 16% of total debt service payments. Debt service is
expected to fall to about 4% of exports by the early 1980s. About one fifth
of total debt service obligations would be due to the Bank Group. In addition,
there are considerable interest and dividend payments abroad, mainly as a
result of the Bougainville copper project. PNG is considered creditworthy
for a limited amount of Bank Group lending. In addition to Australia, other
bilateral sources (e.g. Japan and New Zealand) are also expected to make aid
funds available. The Asian Development Bank has lent to PNG from its Special
Fund and is expected to continue lending to PNG in the future, and several
commercial loans have recently been arranged. In view of the structural
balance of payments deficit (para. 7), some local cost financing would be
justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       As of June 30,1978, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans ($71.0 million) and seven development credits
($48.2 million), which together have helped to finance thirteen projects.
This assistance has focused largely on infrastructure development - 80% of
total Bank Group assistance has been for power, telecommunications, highways,
and ports. Agricultural projects - mainly oil palm and livestock - and one
education project have absorbed the remaining 20% of Bank Group assistance.
IFC has not been involved in PNG.
16.       Project implementation has been satisfactory although, in some
cases, it was slowed down by the transition to self-government and indepen-
dence. Disbursements have sometimes been slow because of administrative
procedures requiring multiple clearances for preparing withdrawal applica-
tions. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of May 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 5 -
17.       In view of PNG's very scant infrastructure base, the past emphasis
of Bank Group assistance was appropriate in helping to open up remote areas
and to establish a basic foundation for future economic development. However,
in the coming years, a somewhat different strategy appears more appropriate
with greater emphasis on agriculture and rural development projects, which
would have a direct impact on the subsistence sector. The proposed project
represents the first such project. About two thirds of PNG's population
rely on subsistence production for the bulk of its livelihood, and living
conditions for these people are among the most primitive found anywhere in
the world. Bank Group assistance for these people would mainly consist of an
integrated package of components, aimed at increasing and diversifying
agricultural production and incomes through improved indigenous cash and food
cropping methods, and at raising rural living standards through the provision
of agricultural credit and social and economic infrastructure. However,
because of the primitive condition of these areas and the Government's very
limited preparation capability, designing such projects requires considerable
lead time. Consequently, the number of such projects which the Bank Group
can realistically expect to assist in the coming years and the level of such
lending the Bank Group can hope to achieve will be constrained.
18.       Infrastructure development still has a vital role to play in
PNG's economic development and it is proposed that the Bank Group continue
assisting such projects, but on an increasingly selective basis. The
further development of the transport sector will be of critical importance
in realizing the potential of many presently backward areas. However,
manpower capable of planning sectoral investment strategy and of identifying
and preparing projects, is extremely scarce. A transport sector mission is
scheduled for the Fall of 1978 to review the Government's investment
strategy, focusing particularly on the needs of primitive rural areas and on
an appropriate balance and coordination between various transport modes.
Based on the findings of this mission, it is expected that further transport
projects, such as rural access roads and coastal shipping, which could
directly assist PNG's subsistence population, would be identified. Finally,
Bank staff are working with the Government to determine rural water supply
and electrification requirements; this could lead to the preparation of
projects for inclusion in the lending program for FY80 and FY81.
19.       While the manpower constraint which confronts PNG has been relieved
to some extent by aggressive recruitment of expatriates, skilled, technical
and administrative personnel remain very scarce relative to the need. The
Government's ability to identify and prepare projects is extremely weak.
Bank staff discussed with UNDP the possibility of setting up a project
preparation facility which could help to ameliorate the situation. However,
UNDP funds are fully committed and Bank staff are, therefore. exploring
other possible sources of finance. However, even if arrangements could be
made for the provision of this facility, it would be some time before
its benefits would begin to be realized. In the meantime, the Bank Group's
technical advice and support in project preparation and implementation will
be especially important. Moreover, a particular effort will have to be made
to identify and include technical assistance components as appropriate in
forthcoming projects.



- 6 -
20.       A major developmental decision confronting Papua New Guinea is how
to balance the allocation of national resources between revenue generating
projects, geared to the exploitation of its very considerable mineral wealth,
and projects which aim directly at increased incomes and improved welfare for
the subsistence population. On occasion in the past, PNG has sought the
Bank's advice on such strategy questions. Moreover, in response to the
Government's request, the Bank has offered advice to the Government on
particular resource-based projects (such as a possible scheme to harness the
hydropower potential of the Purai River in Central Papua) in their early
stages of conceptualization.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Background
21.       Some 2.4 million people, or 86% of the population, live in rural
areas, the great bulk of whom depend on subsistence agriculture for a living,
while subsistence production contributes only about 16% of GDP (agriculture
overall contributes about 30% of GDP). It is, furthermore, estimated that about
three quarters of the rural population live in absolute poverty. Living
conditions for this group contrast sharply with those found in urban areas in
that there is poor or no access to social services and widespread malnutrition
and illiteracy, combined with a growing awareness of the disparity between
the monetary and subsistence segments of the population.
22.       The bulk of PNG's population, until this century, was almost
entirely isolated from outside influences. The comparatively rapid economic
and social changes which these people are now undergoing present a difficult
set of circumstances to Government policy makers. The central development
problem facing the Government is the dualistic nature of the society that is
emerging. This duality not only raises issues of equity and social justice,
but also affects the very cohesion of the nation. How to contain the social
pressures resulting from this duality, while pursuing economic growth and
modernization, is the essence of the problem facing the Government.
Government Objectives
23.       Due to the overwhelming importance of the rural sector in PNG, the
Government's policies for this sector largely represent overall national
objectives and development strategies. The Government White Paper, entitled
"National Development Strategy", published by the National Planning Office
in October 1976, sets out the key priorities and objectives as follows:
(a) Improved Distribution of Income. The White Paper states that a more
equitable distribution of income is a Government objective. It
also explicitly states that the development strategy is not one of
maximizing growth, and recognizes that trade-offs may exist between
the goals of maximizing growth of the total economy and bringing
about a more equitable distribution of income.



- 7 -
(b) Improved Regional Distribution of Social Services. Since access to
social services (such as health care and education) varies tremendously
between provinces, the Government objective is to concentrate on
improving access to social services in the provinces with the lowest
levels of such services.
(c) Satisfaction of Basic Needs. Given the backwardness and poverty of
PNG, the Government considers that direct action to remedy the
problems of malnutrition, illiteracy, sickness, inadequate clothing
and poor housing is the most efficient way of addressing these needs.
(d) National Integration. Given the problems of communications in PNG
and the vital importance of further integrating such a diverse
people politically, economically, socially and culturally, the
Government places high priority on road construction and other
means of communication.
(e) Increasing the Monetary Sector. The long-term objective of the
Government is for all the people to participate in the monetary
economy.
Government Strategies
24.       The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as
follows:
(a) Nutrition StrategV. The Government White Paper states that an
important element of the National Expenditure Plan will be joint
programs of extension and health education aimed at introducing
nutritionally superior food crops and at educating rural people
regarding more suitable diets, particularly for children. The
Government gives the highest priority to the development of
farming systems that increase or sustain subsistence production.
With 70% of the population depending on subsistence farming for a
living, the importance of these efforts is apparent. The Govern-
ment is also committed to correcting and preventing deleterious
nutritional practices.
(b) Rural Development Strategy. Directing a higher proportion of
government expenditures to rural areas, especially the poorer
provinces, is the principal government instrument to improve both
the regional and interpersonal distribution of income, to focus
directly on basic needs, and to further national integration. As
central government activities generate 20-25% of domestic output,
the allocation of government expenditures bears directly and
powerfully on the distribution of income. Since, in 1976, only
about 28% of the work force were in monetized activities and only
13% in wage employment, price policies and the like are not directly
effective instruments to achieve government objectives for over 70%
of the population. The key policies concerning rural development
deal with coordination of extension services, which are now pro-
vided by specialists from a number of departments; diversification



-8-
and improvement of agricultural production, with high priority
given to food for domestic markets and improved nutrition; introduc-
tion of appropriate, usually labor-intrensive technology; promotion
of small-scale industries that are located in rural areas or
support rural industry; development of means to mobilize local
savings for local investment; redirection of the education system
away from formal schooling towards nonformal and vocational
training; and the provision of health services in the rural
areas. Recognizing the need for basic road communication, the
Government places high priority on providing road access to all
villages.
(c) Self-Employment Strategy. Growth of wage employment is likely to be
well under 3% p.a. for the next decade and will cover less than 20%
of the labor force by 1990. Therefore, the Government's development
policies aim at the generation of additional opportunities for
income earning through self-employment, especially in the rural
areas. Cash cropping and livestock production are regarded as the
principal areas with good opportunities and prospects.
25.       The Government's National Development Strategy serves well as a
general outline for future development. However, the capability to translate
these broadly stated objectives into actual programs and projects is extremely
weak. Manpower capable of identifying and preparing projects is very scarce
and, consequently, the pipeline of development projects is limited. As part
of the establishment of provincial governments in PNG, provinces will be
delegated much of the responsibility for project planning, preparation and
implementation. As provincial staff at present are even less equipped to
plan and implement projects than the staff of the Central Government, the
rate of project generation is unlikely to be rapid for some time to come.
As discussed above (para. 19), efforts are being made to improve PNG's
project preparation capability.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
26.       There is basic agreement between the Government and the Bank Group
on the problems of the rural areas and the most effective strategies for
coping with these problems. The Government has encouraged Bank involvement
in rural development. Consequently, increased involvement by the Bank Group
in this sector is expected over the coming years.
27.       Past lending in rural areas has been for roads, education, cash
cropping and livestock production. While such involvement was, and still
is, consistent with the Government's development strategy, the scope of the
Bank Group involvement needs to be broadened and integrated. The proposed
project involves new initiatives and would help the Government to make
a comprehensive and coordinated attack on the problems of one province in a
way consistent with national objectives and capabilities.



9-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The proposed project was prepared by public servants of various
ministries working in the project area, with assistance from the Association.
It was appraised in August/September 1977. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Rural Development Project" (No. 1985-PNG, dated June 22, 1978) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III. Negotiations were held in Washington from June 5 to 9, 1978 with a PNG
delegation led by Ms. Patricia Curley, Acting First Assistant Secretary,
Ministry of Finance.
Project Area
29.        The proposed project would be carried out in the Southern Highlands
Province. The greater part of the province is at an altitude of between
1,500 m and 4,000 m and consists of highland valleys and steep limestone
ridges. Rainfall is high, the lowest mean annual amount being 2,450 mm and
the highest 4,500 mm. In general, the soils are infertile. Generally,
areas below 1,800 m are frost-free, but, above 2,500 m, frosts are common.
The climate is characterized by a lack of seasonal contrast. The combination
of high rainfall and poor soils greatly limits the agricultural potential of
the area. Coffee, tea, cardamoms and mulberries appear to be the only
promising cash crops.
30.        The people in the Southern Highlands Province do not live in villages
but in scattered garden hamlets. They wear a minimum of clothing. Houses
are constructed mainly of grass or pandanus leaves on a light timber frame
with the roof close to the ground (to conserve warmth); the normally smoky
atmosphere inside contributes to the prevalence of pneumonia and other
respiratory diseases. The culture of the people prior to World War II was
neolithic, since sustained contact with the outside world has occurred only
after the War.
31.       The population of the province is about 235,000, with an average
family size of 6.3. It is estimated that about 90% of the provincial labor
force (age 10 years and over) are involved in subsistence agriculture and home
duties, and only 4% in money raising activities (coffee, tea, cattle, cardamoms
and silk) on a more or less permanent basis. The remaining 6% are either
students or otherwise occupied.
32.        According to the 1971 census, some 8.1% of the population of the
Southern Highlands Province over 10 years old were literate (national average
31%). Some 6.4% of those aged over 10 years could speak English and 5.6%
Pidgin; the rest could speak one or more of the 16 indigenous languages or
dialects of the province. Nationally, 57% of 7-12 year olds and about 14%
of 13-17 year olds are enrolled in school, whereas in the Southern Highlands
Province the respective figures are 44% and 6.5%. These are among the
lowest rates in the country. Only about 15% of high school students in the
province are female, compared to a national figure of 29%.



- 10 -
33.       The Southern Highlands Province ranks last nationally in per capita
expenditure for health. In 1977, the per capita expenditure was about $4
and, of this, about 44% was spent on the Mendi Hospital, to which relatively
few people have effective access. A major problem is the high turnover of
nursing staff because they wish to return to their home districts, usually on
the coast. The primary health care level in the Southern Highlands Province
is near the bottom nationally with an aid post/population ratio of 1:2,060.
Over 53% of the population live more than one hour's walk from the nearest
aid post.  Malnutrition (<80% of standard weight for a particular age) occurs
in 30-40% of children less than 5 years old and severe malnutrition (<60% of
standard) ranges between 0.2 and 5.5%. In the Southern Highlands Province, about
203 children per 1,000 born die before reaching five years, which is the
second highest rate among the 19 provinces of PNG.
Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project would aim at helping to achieve the Government's
sector objectives of a more equitable interregional distribution of income,
improved regional distribution of social services, satisfaction of nutrition
and some other basic needs, national integration and increasing the percentage
of the population in the monetary economy. The Association's participation
is expected to contribute to improvements in project design and implementation
procedures and to a systematic monitoring of the project's impact. The
project would represent the first step in what will clearly be a long
process to develop the economy of the province, and help the Southern
Highlanders to raise their present low standard of living to a substantially
higher level. The individual components are presented in the following
paragraphs in order of their potential to offer benefits to the people of
the Southern Highlands and not in order of the proportion of total costs
which they represent.
Detailed Features of the Project
35.       Nutrition/Subsistence Component.  Because the population of the
province is so precariously perched on the border between nutritional
adequacy and malnutrition, great care has to be exercised in introducing
change into the subsistence farming system. For these reasons, the nutrition
component of the project would concentrate on generating information needed
to effect changes in food crop production which would improve the quality of
the diet, and on training the agricultural extension and health service
staff.
36.       The project would staff, house and equip an Agricultural Field
Trials, Studies, Extension and Monitoring Unit (AFTSEMU) in Mendi. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained that AFTSEMU would be set up by
October 1, 1978, and that its organization and functions would be satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained that AFTSEMU would consult the Association
before employing key staff members and consultants (Section 3.03 (b) and
(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). AFTSEMU would conduct field
trials and village demonstrations of new crops, varieties and husbandry



- 11 -
methods. It would provide in-service training courses for extension workers
in food crop improvements. It would also review existing information on
subsistence farming in the Highlands and collect data on land use, farm
management, nutrition and demography necessary for monitoring project results.
Relevant information from such reviews would be incorporated in a report on
subsistence agriculture, including policy recommendations for further
improvements, to be submitted to the Association by December 31, 1981,
(Section 3.03 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       The project would also construct and staff a Media Unit at Mendi,
to be run by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to provide logistical
and advisory support in communication techniques to all government extension
services working in the province. An assurance was obtained that the Associa-
tion would be consulted prior to the appointment of the Director of the Unit
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       The project would provide AFTSEMU and the Media Unit with seven
internationally recruited staff, together with associated housing, vehicles,
equipment, training facilities, consultants, aerial photography and operat-
ing costs, required to carry out its functions.
39.       Cash Crops.  Coffee, tea and, to a much lesser extent, cardamom
and mulberry are the only cash crops that at present seem to offer expansion
possibilities, and these would be supported under this project. Cash cropping
in the Southern Highlands Province commenced very recently: cardamom was
introduced in about 1974, tea and mulberry in about 1969, and coffee in the
1960s. While efforts to promote cash crops (e.g. pepper and pyrethrum)
among subsistence farmers (smallholders) have generally failed in the
Southern Highlands, a small number of such farmers are presently engaged in
cash cropping (mainly coffee). It would be unrealistic, however, to expect
sufficient commitment (financial and otherwise) from the great majority of
subsistence farmers in the Southern Highlands, who have no prior experience,
to begin production now on their smallholdings. Therefore, the cash crop
component of the proposed project is modeled on the successful experience of
many neighboring provinces where coffee cultivation was originally introduced
by estates and was gradually accepted by smallholders; today, about 70% of the
coffee is grown by smallholders in these areas. The local government council-
owned coffee blocks would serve a similar demonstration function for subsis-
tence farmers and, it is expected, would attract them eventually into coffee
production.
40.       Specifically the coffee component of the project would:
(a) extend the 350 ha area of the ten existing local government council
(council) coffee blocks by 50 ha in total, and establish a further
five council blocks with an average size of 50 ha;
(b) establish about 45 group coffee blocks owned by about 1,800
subsistence farmers, the total area to be planted being 450 ha;
the blocks would be owned by some or all of the members of the
clan who own the particular pieces of land developed;



- 12 -
(c) establish approximately 530 ha of smallholder coffee on about 2,500
holdings, thus increasing the area of smallholder coffee in the
Southern Highlands Province from 500 ha to 1,030 ha;
(d) construct a coffee mill in the province for hulling parchment coffee
produced by the council blocks, group blocks, smallholders and the
private estate that exists in the province. The mill would be
owned by the Southern Highlands Development Corporation (Holdings)
Pty. Ltd. (SHDC), a recently established holding company owned by
the provincial government (para. 59);
(e) recruit a Coffee and Candamom Supervisor to the extension staff to
oversee the overall development of the coffee component in the
western part of the province and also supervise the cardamom
component; and
(f) recruit a Coffee Extension Specialist to work with smallholders.
41.       In order to avoid establishing a provincial economy totally
dependent on coffee, steps would also be taken to expand the present meager
acreage under tea cultivation and to establish a tea industry. The long-term
expectation is that this industry too would become predominantly a smallholder
industry. Initially tea production is generally a vertically integrated
operation based on estate production, because before planting tea an assured
factory outlet is necessary, and before building the factory a guaranteed
supply of green leaf must be assured. In the proposed project, each of the
five tea blocks would be owned by a company in which the provincial govern-
ment, through SHDC, its holding company, would be the major shareholder, other
shareholders may include the local council and local residents. The tea
factory would be owned by the SHDC, possibly in partnership with a private
tea company. Smallholder tea production would be encouraged by the extension
service concurrently with the block development under this project, but a
major expansion in smallholder tea production is not expected to occur
until later.
42.       Specifically the tea component would:
(a) establish five tea blocks on government-owned land in the four
eastern council areas of the province, with a total area of about
800 ha (the present area is about 140 ha).
(b) establish about 50 ha of tea dispersed on about 125 smallholdings
(the present area is about 20 ha);
(c) build a tea factory; and
(d) pave and upgrade some 40.5 km of feeder roads serving the tea areas.



- 13-
43.       The climatic conditions in the Southern Highlands appear to be
suitable for the production of cardamoms and silk; under the proposed
project these would also be established on a small scale as cash crops,
to determine their suitability for eventual smallholder production. Specifi-
cally, this component would include:
(a)  the establishment of a 50 ha council block at Erave and 25 ha
council blocks at Pimaga and Komo for the production of cardamoms,
which would serve as demonstration units;
(b) the encouragement of cardamom production by smallholders in the
vicinity of the cardamom council blocks; and
(c)  the cultivation of 40 ha of mulberries by 400 smallholders in eight
locations and the associated developments necessary to produce
silk, which would be managed by the Office of Business Development
of the Department of Commerce.
44.       Electrification.  The project would construct about 60 km of
transmission lines by extending the existing grid westward into the Southern
Highlands Province mainly to supply power to the coffee and tea factories.
45.       Health Services.  Delivery of health services in the Southern
Highlands requires considerable strengthening. In fact, the National Health
Plan gives priority to expanding nurses training in Mendi, the Southern
Highlands provincial capital. With no expansion of present personnel, by the
early 1980's there would be a shortage of 114 nurses in the province. At
present there are no nurses training facilities in the Southern Highlands;
most nurses are trained in coastal areas. Moreover, because of the conserva-
tive attitude of parents which makes them reluctant to permit children,
particularly girls, to go to the coastal areas for schooling, only 30% of
nurses working in the Southern Highlands are Southern Highlanders. The high
proportion of non-southern Highlanders results in high turnover and frequent
staff vacancies. The proposed project would establish a nurse and in-service
training complex to be attached to the Mendi Hospital. The facility would
have capacity for 30 first year students, 25 second year students, 20 third
year students and 30 nursing aides and would be able to accommodate 12 male and
12 female in-service training personnel.
46.       Training of health field staff at present is usually done outside
the Southern Highlands at centers unable to simulate relevant field situations.
The heavy workload of supervisory staff has prevented adequate attention
being devoted to on-going training of field staff, and supervisory staff
visit field staff only once every three to six months. Under the proposed
project, field health staff would be given in-service training at Mendi
Hospital for a minimum of two weeks per year. More frequent supervisory field
visits would also be encouraged.
47.       Two districts in the province have particularly inadequate health
services. These are Kagua and Ialibu each with a population of about 25,000
and with only three qualified nurses at present. This is a ratio of about



- 14 -
one nurse per 8,000 population, whereas the national norm is one nurse per
3,000 population. The proposed project would construct two health subcenters
in the Kagua district, and one in the Ialibu district of the province, each
to be staffed with two trained nurses and four nurses aides.
48.       The Pneumonia Research Unit at Tari has compiled a valuable bank
of data on demographic trends, mortality and disease, nutrition, migration,
income levels and sources, housing, and education in the Tari area. The
continued gathering of this information would provide a unique opportunity
to monitor the impact of economic development on these parameters. Provision
is being made under the proposed project to permit the Unit to continue to
operate its data collection system.
49.       Roads.  A major factor contributing to the isolation of the
Southern Highlands has been its poor road access both to the rest of the
country, as well as within the province itself. The project would upgrade
and/or construct the main road through the province from Poroma to Koroba
(138 km) to an all-weather rural (i.e. unpaved) standard. In addition, it
would install small bridges and culverts as appropriate on about 900 km
of feeder roads throughout the province.
50.       Formal Education.  The proposed project would address several
obvious and immediate needs and help to correct provincial imbalances in
access to secondary education. It would construct two new high schools, one
at Koroba and one at Pangia, each with 230 places. A permanent position for
an agricultural lecturer would be provided at the Dauli Teachers College to
teach pre-service and in-service students agricultural practices relevant to
the province. Moreover, community schools, high schools and the Dauli
Teachers College would be provided with materials and equipment for demon-
strating community development projects, mainly improved subsistence
farming and nutrition practices (e.g. gardening equipment, cooking utensils,
and equipment for raising poultry and livestock).
51.       Nonformal Education.  At present there is one provincial adult
education officer in the Southern Highlands to handle nonformal adult educa-
tion. The proposed project would expand the program of adult education by
providing one provincial coordinator and seven district officers. The
coordinator would be recruited internationally for three years with the
intention that the provincial officer assume his functions by the end of the
contract. The district officers would each be provided with adequate trans-
port, accommodation and travel funds, learning materials, and funds for
village training courses. In addition, short training courses would be
conducted for selected villagers focussing on local community development and
practical solutions to village problems.
52.       The vocational center at Pangia is one of five centers in the
country testing pilot programs in community education, introduced under the
Education Project (Credit 661). The center is placing greater emphasis on
extension, and identifying and studying local needs. This reorientation
began only in 1977 and, thus, it is too early to evaluate its results.
Meaningful results should be available within the next year or two and, if



- 15 -
warranted, the present project would provide funds to similarly reorient the
other three vocational centers in the province. Funds would be provided for
in-service training, vehicles and equipment to enable the vocational centers
to better meet local needs.
53.       Finally a specialist in appropriate technologies would be recruited
for about two years. Essentially, he would be a tradesman/craftsman who
would work alongside village people and help to develop and apply suitable
technologies, which would have potential for improving living standards and
rural incomes. Short-term consultant contracts might be required to supple-
ment the experience of the Appropriate Technologist in introducing certain
new techniques to the province.
Project Costs and Financing
54.       Total project costs (inclusive of taxes and duties) are estimated
at $32.2 million, of which $15.5 million, or 48%, represents foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the base cost estimates
for the noncommercial activities (otherwise physical contingencies are
incorporated in the base cost estimates). Price increases were assumed as
follows: for civil works and services, 8% in 1978, 7.5% in 1979, and 7%
thereafter; for vehicles and equipment, 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979, and 6%
thereafter. Expected price increases amount to 19% of base costs plus
physical contingencies. The proposed credit of $20.0 million would finance
the full foreign exchange cost of the project and $4.5 million of local
costs, equivalent to 66% of project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties.
For civil works, government services, studies, field trials, extension and
monitoring, 36% of the costs would be met by Government and 64% from the
proceeds of the proposed credit. The Office of Business Development (OBD)
within the Department of Commerce would finance 36% of the costs of silk
development, with the balance being provided from the proposed credit. The
cash costs of individual smallholder developments would be about $100 and
are expected to be financed entirely by the smallholders; however, should
any additional financing be required, it would be provided under the project
through the PNG Development Bank (PNGDB) and the PNG Banking Corporation
(PNGBC). In all other cases of commercial development, the beneficiaries
would make a substantial equity contribution of land and cash, and either
the PNGDB or the PNGBC would finance the balance with loan funds. A total
of 70 man-years of technical assistance, including consultants, would be
provided under the project at an average cost of about $2,500 per man-month.
Procurement
55.       Since all commercial ventures, including smallholder development
(26% of base cost), would be undertaken by independent private, public, or
mixed public-private enterprises, procurement would be decentralized and
widely scattered over the Southern Highlands Province. Consequently, inter-
national competitive bidding would not be generally feasible or appropriate.
PNGDB and PNGBC would, however, require, as a condition for making subloans,
that at least three bids be obtained from at least two countries for items of



- 16 -
machinery and equipment costing in excess of $100,000 (Schedule 3, para. 1 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Construction of civil works,
including roads, would be by force account but using hired plant, where
appropriate. Contracts for materials and vehicles would be let in accordance
with local procedures that are acceptable to the Association (Section 2.03 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
56.       Disbursements of the proceeds of the proposed credit against
subloans by PNGDB or PNGBC for coffee, tea and cardamom development would
be at the rate of 100%, provided the subloan did not exceed 64% of the total
cost of the subproject. Disbursements for civil works, vehicles, materials,
salaries and consultant services would be at the rate of 64% of total costs,
except for the construction of the two secondary schools; in this latter
case disbursements would be at the rate of either 64% of total costs or 100%
of government expenditure, whichever is less. Disbursements for operating
costs in the health subcenters and training complex and two secondary
schools, however, would decline from 64% to a rate of 50% in 1982, and 30%
thereafter until project completion. This declining rate of disbursement is
intended to accustom the implementing agencies to financing their own
operating costs. No disbursements would be made for tea development until
an overall financial plan for this component was prepared that was acceptable
to the Association (Schedule 1, para. 3(ii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). This requirement is particularly to ensure that necessary equity
will be available to finance the tea factory. Normal supporting documents
would be submitted for vehicles, materials and for civil works performed by
contractors. Certificates of expenditure would be submitted for subloans,
force account work and for salaries and operating costs. Retroactive
financing of $600,000 for roads and some key project staff from January 1,
1978 is proposed. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
June 30, 1984, approximately six months after the end of construction.
Organization and Management
57.       The proposed project calls for implementation by a large number of
Central and Provincial Government agencies and departments. While the
various components require only minimum coordination during implementation,
the number of agencies involved suggests the need for an interagency oversee-
ing mechanism. The proposed project management system has three objectives:
firstly, to monitor the implementation of project components by all of the
respective departments and agencies both at headquarters and at field level;
secondly, to ensure easy access to funds through a central project budget
allocation; and thirdly, to maintain effective channels of communication
between field and headquarters.
58.       Organization at Headquarters Level.  At headquarters 12 government
departments and agencies would be involved in one or more aspects of project
implementation (Departments of Finance, Southern Highlands within the Ministry
of Decentralization, Primary Industry, Works and Supply, Commerce, Health,
Education, the Public Services Commission, the Housing Commission, the Electri-
city Commission, the PNGDB and the PNGBC). In order to ensure coordination
among all agencies, a Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee (HQPCC)



- 17 -
would be established by October 1, 1978, its organization, membership,
procedures, powers and responsibilities being satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.01(b)(i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Its functions
would be to coordinate the establishment of project operating policies and
practices, assist in solving problems, and resolve differences between
government agencies. The members of the HQPCC would be the heads of govern-
ment departments involved in the project. The Managing Director of the PNGDB
would be an ex officio, non-voting member of this committee. A Headquarters
Project Manager (HQPM), whose qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association, would be
appointed as a condition of effectiveness and made responsible for project
implementation and for overall direction and coordination (Sections
3.01(b)(ii) and 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The HQPM
would be a non-voting member and secretary of the HQPCC and would be the
principal contact with the heads of departments, as well as with project
management at the provincial level.
59.       Organization at Provincial Level.  At the provincial level, the
project would call for the close monitoring and coordination of project
activities by councils; the Divisions of Provincial Affairs, Primary Industry,
Health, Education and Commerce within the Department of the Southern Highlands
of the Ministry of Decentralization; the Public Services Commission; and the
Department of Works and Supply. The existing Southern Highlands Development
Authority would be replaced by two new institutions, namely the recently
established Southern Highlands Development Corporation (SHDC) and the Southern
Highlands Management Authority (SHMA).  During negotiations, the Articles and
Memorandum of Association of SHDC were reviewed, and assurances were obtained
that certain amendments would be effected as a condition of credit effective-
ness which would ensure that the project's benefits would accrue to the local
people (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The SHMA
would also be established as a condition of effectiveness (Section 3.06(a)
and 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); it would be responsible
for providing management and technical assistance for commercial coffee, tea
and cardamom development. The extension staff would provide technical
assistance to smallholders. The appointment of a Provincial Project Manager
(PPM), based in Mendi, whose qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association, is
an additional condition of effectiveness (Section 3.01(b) and 5.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). He would be directly responsible to the
HQPM for direction, control and coordination of project field operations at
provincial, district and council levels. There would be a Provincial Project
Coordinating Committee (PPCC) with functions similar to those of the HQPCC
but at the provincial level (Section 3.01(b)(i) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The members of the PPCC would be the provincial heads of
agencies involved in the project and located in the province. The PPM would
be a non-voting member and secretary of PPCC; he would bear a functional
relationship to the HQPCC and may be co-opted to its meetings as and when
necessary. A Provincial Project Financial Controller would be appointed by
December 31, 1978 (Section 3.01(b)(iii) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 18 -
Operation and Maintenance
60.       Operation and maintenance would be the responsibility of the respec-
tive government agencies involved. The important roads would be maintained by
the Department of Works and Supply. Operation and maintenance by government
agencies in the province has been satisfactory to date.
Cost Recovery
61.       The proceeds of the proposed credit allocated for development of
cash crops ($3.6 million) would be channelled through the PNGDB and the
PNGBC. Onlending terms would be determined on the basis of the prevailing
commercial rate for the relevant type of lending applicable to the various
subborrowers (companies, groups and smallholders); currently this rate
averages about 9%. The PNGDB and the PNGBC would be allowed a fixed average
spread of 3% to cover their administrative costs, resulting in an average
onlending rate of about 6% to these institutions. Fluctuations in the
commercial rate charged to subborrowers would result in equivalent changes in
the onlending rates to participating banks; the 3% average spread would
remain fixed. Loans to subborrowers would have maturities of up to 15 years,
including grace periods of up to 5 years, depending on the crop and the
subborrower; onlending would be amortized in accordance with the amortization
schedules applicable to the subloans (Section 3.02 and Schedule 3 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Subloans to individual enterprises
amounting to more than $45,000 in the aggregate would be forwarded to the
Association for its prior approval (Section 3.02 (d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Health care, education and road services would be
provided under the project with no attempt to recover costs.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       The Agricultural Economist, who would be recruited under the AFTSEMU,
would be responsible for collecting information for project monitoring, includ-
ing data on the progress of the cash cropping component. This would be in
addition to the quarterly report from each agency to the HQPM on the physical
and financial progress of each subproject. The Pneumonia Research Unit at
Tari would also provide valuable data required to evaluate the impact of the
project as a whole. The Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research in
Port Moresby would have responsibility for project evaluation.
Project Benefits, Justification and Risk
63.       The Southern Highlands Province is one of the most primitive and
backward areas in Papua New Guinea. Its people suffer from inadequate nutri-
tion, poor health, low levels of education and incomes. Poor road connections
within the Province and with the rest of the Highlands have kept provincial
villages remote from one another, thus maintaining the province's backwardness.
The proposed project is comprised of a relatively large number of components
which would address these needs. The project focuses heavily on nutrition and
health, which are seen to be the most immediate basic needs of the Southern
Highlanders; in addition, the project would improve education, raise cash



- 19 -
incomes and improve the provincial road network. Each of these components can
be evaluated and justified in terms of its own benefit stream, which in the
short run is largely independent of the other project items. In the longer
term, however, it is anticipated that there will be a collective developmental
benefit greater chan the sum of its parts. The long-term objective of the
project is to bring the people of the Southern Highlands into the cash economy
and, more generally, into the modern world. In addition, many project compo-
nents, especially roads and education, would help to foster greater communica-
tion and, thus, fuller integration of the Southern Highlands with the rest of
the country. Development is desired very strongly by the local population who
realize that other parts of the country are more "modern" and that from this
stems significantly improved welfare.
64.       Because of the unique situation of the Southern Highlands Province
and its people, the lack of immediately applicable agronomic practices and a
shortage of suitably trained extension staff, there are severe limitations at
present on what can be done to improve the subsistence economy of about 90% of
the population (210,000 people). The nutrition component of the project is a
necessary step toward overcoming these limitations. The overriding concept of
this component would be to lay the groundwork of knowledge, training, and
communications for raising productivity of subsistence farmers and improving
nutrition. Whatever is learned would be fed directly into the extension
services and communicated through various media. Information gained from
field trials and data collection would assist an agronomist trainer in conduct-
ing in-service training courses in subsistence food crop improvement for
extension workers. Material for village demonstration would be developed by
the trainer. Finally, a media center would provide logistical and advisory
support in communication techniques to all government extension workers
(agriculture and health staff, teachers) in the Southern Highlands Province.
65.       In developing the cash crop component, the project has taken cogni-
zance of nutritional implications. Studies have shown a higher incidence of
malnutrition among families in which adult males were employed away from home
in the monetary economy. Families of male workers in the cash economy who
lived at home and continued to tend their gardens and participate in local
affairs were nutritionally better off than those wholly dependent on the
subsistence economy or those who had to live away from home to find work.
These observations were taken into account in designing the proposed project.
Thus the sites for coffee, tea and cardomom blocks have been widely separated
to enable workers, as far as possible, to live at home and continue to tend
their gardens.
66.       The coffee, tea and cardamom blocks would generally be on land that
is not presently in the subsistence economy, because it is either of poor
quality or located at altitudes where frost frequently damages the sweet
potato crop, the staple of the diet.
67.       Schools in the province are often used as community gathering
points. It is not uncommon for parents to devote up to one full-work day a
week to assist in maintaining the school and for work in the school gardens.
Thus, there is the opportunity to use the school garden as a demonstration
plot for both parents and school children. The garden would be used to
demonstrate which crops are of high nutritional value and how to maximize



- 20 -
garden output. The school would serve as a focal point for general extension
including the distribution of seeds and materials. The project would supply a
gardening kit to each primary and secondary school. These kits would include
tools, seeds and information. Within the schools' curricula, increased
emphasis would be given to cooking classes (preparation of nutritious meals)
and nutrition education.
68.       The project puts major emphasis on improvement of rural health.
There is increasing evidence that early treatment of infectious diseases
(especially respiratory and gastrointestinal) decreases a child's weight loss
and enhances the child's chance of rapidly returning to its pre-illness
weight. Data from the Tari area suggest that inaccessibility to health
facilities may well increase the risk of developing severe malnutrition.
In-service training programs and nurses' education would devote significant
time to the study and practical experience in preventing and treating malnutri-
tion. By locating the training facilities in Mendi, the provincial capital,
with field units throughout the province, the relevance of nutrition teaching
material would be ensured. Women are the key to improved nutrition in the
Southern Highlands Province and would, therefore, be the target group of
project efforts in this respect.
69.       A necessary foundation to ensure the maximum impact of many of the
project's components and, more generally, to promote the future development
of the province is improved road transport. Without the road linking Poroma
to Koroba, development of the greater part of the province would be greatly
restricted. The justification for this minimum standard road is essentially
social and only secondarily economic. The potential benefits from the Poroma
to Koroba road would be further enhanced by the installation of permanent
culverts on about 900 km of feeder roads. This culverting program would
result in maintenance savings of about 30%. The delivery of social services
would be greatly improved as a result of these road improvements.
70.       With the establishment of provincial governments throughout PNG,
many of the functions which previously were the responsibility of the Central
Government are being decentralized. This presents a particularly difficult
problem for the poorer provinces such as the Southern Highlands, which have an
inadequate tax base. The cash cropping components are designed to provide an
opportunity for smallholders, councils, and the Provincial Government to
engage in cash generating activities and, thus, have the ability to meet more
of the people's basic needs. Due to the poor soils, climate, and distance
from markets, coffee, tea, cardamoms and silk appear as the only promising
options. Cash cropping would:
(a) increase the incomes of about 4,800 families (13% of provincial total);
(b) in addition, provide employment opportunities for about 1,500 people
in the vicinity of the coffee, tea, cardamom and silk production and
processing facilities;
(c) support the infant silk industry that exists in the province as a
basis for creating off-farm means of income supplementation,
especially for women;



- 21 -
(d) provide a source of revenue for all councils through their produc-
tion of coffee and/or cardamoms on blocks. Twelve councils would
produce coffee and three, cardamoms; and
(e)  provide additional revenues for the Provincial Government through
its majority shareholding in the companies that would produce tea
and process coffee and tea.
71.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 8% for the Poroma
to Koroba road, the cost of which is $8.4 million; 23% for-the culverting
program, the cost of which is $1.0 million; 20% for coffee, the cost of which
is $2.5 million; 15% for tea, the cost of which is $4.9 million; and 31% for
cardamoms and silk, the cost of which is $0.7 million. The average economic
rate of return on these components, which account for 69% of the project's
base cost, is 13%. Should the price of coffee and tea drop by 20%, then the
respective economic rates of return would be 14% and 7%. The project would
require about $0.9 million annually of additional government expenditures to
maintain and service the project facilities. However, increased tax revenue
would amount to about $0.2 million p.a., and dividends to the Provincial
Government and councils may reach $0.7 million by 1990.
72.       Given the fact that the government programs to be assisted by the
project are under the management of established agencies, and that provision
for recruitment of additional experienced staff has been budgeted where
warranted, the risk of not achieving the project objectives or rate of return
is believed to be no greater than can normally be expected with operations of
this type. Risks associated with managing such a large number of components
are lessened because to a large extent the implementation of the various
components would not be interdependent. Rather, the project would require
adequate monitoring of all project items and the proposed management scheme
should be adequate for this purpose. The tea component carries the highest
risk because it could be severely affected by a long period of depressed
prices. However, given that tea and coffee are the only cash crops that have
the potential for significant expansion in the Southern Highlands, the inclusion
of the two crops together in the project lessens somewhat the risk to the
provincial economy from fluctuating commodity prices. The other intangible is
the effect the establishment of the provincial governments will have on the
functioning of the public service and budgetary allocations to poor provinces,
like the Southern Highlands Province. Funding for social services is only
guaranteed to the provinces by the Central Government at the levels prevailing
in 1976/77; hence, the importance of increasing the revenue sources of the
councils and the Southern Highlands Provincial Government.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Papua New Guinea and
the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately.
74.       The special features of this credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are the appointment of the
Headquarters and Provincial Project Managers, the establishment of the Southern
Highlands Management Authority and the amendment of the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Southern Highlands Development Corporation.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 5,  1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND   AREA    (THOU   KM2)              ---------   --------- ----    -   - -------- -------
TOTAL------- PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                      REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOtAL       461.7                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        4.5                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           LIBERIA        IVORY COAST   TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    160.0      310.0     490.0               280.0       350.0      1260.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            1.9        2.4        2.8                1.3         5.4         1.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0        5.0       6.0                12.0        16.0      200.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      504.0      552.0      618.0               217.0        32.0       708.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         44.4      43.1       40.6                42.8        46.1        32.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          25.5      20.2       17.1                23.5        23.3         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           .          .                         137.3          ..       34.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       38.6       45.1      47 7                41.0        41.0       66.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       2.9        2.9                2.6         3.1         2.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.7        2.4       2.6                 3.3 ia      3.4 /a      2.1L/a
URBAN                                12.6      13.0       10.5                   *         8.7 /b      3.1
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           3.3        8.9      12.9                26.2        28.0        24.1
AGE STRUCTURF (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       40.5      42.0       41.9                40.7        42.5       41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       56.6      55.0       54.9                56.0        542.       5541
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.9        3.0       3.2                 3.3         2.7         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.8        0.9                0.8         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8/a      0.9       0.9/a               1.0 /b      0.9 /c      1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                                                 .                       25.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                                                             5 4 ..  .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1040.0    1260.0/a 1410.0                 580.0      2600.0      350.0 /b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         89.0      86.0C      83.0                72.0        82.0       22.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        ..         .                20.0/C        ..        12.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..               61.7 /d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              .                     ..               12.6
I.QWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                     5.3 7T
fWEST  40% O  HOUSS6OLDS              ..         ..         ..               10.9 7        .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_____________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1 4390. 0Ib I11630. 0  11590.0           11590.0    15320.0      2330.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2450.0/bc 2370.0    2050.0/b             4590.0     2830.0/d    400.0/C
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           170.01r- 150.0           .               5BO.0     1150.0-    230.0-
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..         ..         ..               84.0      114.0        97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..         ..         ..                                      6 0  60 0  64 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..         ..         ..               i oLe       18/        34:0/d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..               18.2          ..        1.8
EDUCATION
AD.JUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          .                 59.0               53.0        76.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      1.0        8.0      12.0                9.0        1t.0        36.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             ".C       10.0       1o.0               12.0        13.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
II OF SECONDARY)                     22.0      19.0       22.1                8.4         7.0         6.o/e
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1                   ..      3                              ts.0       20.0        88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                0.7/Ld      ..         ..                  .          ..         .7/f
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER I%)                        ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..        64.0/&
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   *h ..                ..                 ..          ..            _
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (Xl                     ..         ..        ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           ..         ..        .0               132.0       t  O       276 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POp)           2.0        7.0       6.0                11n.0      100         73.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           31.0       74.0    352.0                330.0       95.0      1172.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..       0.2        0.3a _              0.1        0.2         5.9
____________________________________________      _-                 ---  ---     - -  --_
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Eitimate between
1973 and 1976.
0  Trinidad and Tebago has beer selected as an objective  c..try because both  on.ntries are sma.l  tilend naticn  and  1-c both coontoia    are dependent
no agrl_niture for their linelihood, and both countries possess significant agricolt-em poten-al.
PAPUA NEW CUI_NEA         1960    Ia  Ratio of populstion under 15 and 60 snd over to total labor force;    /b  1964;                       ln-iaditg asniatant r-arsa;
/d Total, arban and rural
1970     /a  1966,
MOST RECENT ESThAaTE:    /a  Ratio of popalation under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1n-inding midwives;
/c 1972.
LIBERIA                   1970    /I  Due te itemigration population growth rste is higher than rota of natural incocase;                  /b  Ratio of popolation
Ander 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  Unemployed and partially  -mployod;    Id  Popolation, 1975
lochk Efooroi  Report.  Sigher inoena c-i-ula.td as r-Idcal,  nrlodeoen parriate;                  Ie  1964-66.
IVOR1   COAST             19710    /a  De to ieig-ratio. population growth rate is higher than rate of nat-ral irlrease;                  lb  1964-70;    /c  Ratio
of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;             /d  Governmnnt only, itclodinog  idiven;
Ie 1964-66.
TRINTIAD ANl TOBAGO    1970    /t  Due to emigration popalatien growth rate is lower that rate of naturul imcrees;                       In  Labor icr00 age 15-64 yoar;
Ic  Incloding midwiven;    /d  1964-66;    /e  iovernment matintai-nd and aided schools only;                  /f  Total, urban
and rural;      IR  Inside only;    /h  1966.
R8, July 5, 1978
DUF;INITIOMC OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
land Ares (tbon kt2)                                                                          Poeplution Per earsi tee ..rson - Poy-latin diried by  -nber oI pracaicing
Totul - Total t nrface area s ot prising lood area and inland waters.                            sale and feale gruduate snraos * trained' or '-reratied" nurese, and
aorit   - Moa: rea-ca estate   of ugricul_nra 1reanueed temporarily or pe ms-                    uxiIiary personnel niah arsisis- oreoperlance.
neatly tar cropar, ypaitres, markot h birches gardens or to lie fulia.                      PoPulation per hospital bed - Popnlation ditided by ausber of hbpital bead
available in public and private goer -1 and iperialized hospital and
iNP ver caeioa (107U    - GNP per capita e- tiete- at current rarkat pritces,                   rehabilitatton censeas; n       dcloso  -nasing hboes and eitabli e t-a  fo
aeloelated by sane co tversnna seahbd as World Oank nolan (1974-76 basis);                   -codial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1976 duts.                                                                   Per capita sopply of calories i(7 n  renelremesto) - Cqpured frc, energy
eqivIlet of net food suppil fe   esiuble ir cannetry Par espit. per day;
l'ocatlatn a-d vtitl stoiis alaiaeilable  op plies  _uor_e dresesta production  iperas Iees e-ports .and
Poenlatioc (rid-year  cillioni   As of July first:  if sot aveilabla, averuge                   changene in otok; ret eappliers -rclde caial feed, seedn, q-antitien coed
of awn end-year estbrates; 1916f, 1970 and 1976 dia.                                          in fond processing and l7Psen in di.tor,inoti; reqaiveey         unt hea ti-ated
by yAO base.d on physiolgicalsneeis for noma  ac.tivity and helh -rnid-
PupaIation deseiry - per anqare kb  - Mid-ysar yapalution per square kiloter                    erina esvirossoantal t"aperaore, body aeighto, oge end see distributions of
(100 hectares) of tnal area.                                                                  population, and ullowiag 107 far oseto at hos--hold level.
Pmpction denatY-  _er sqnure he of aorit  laid - Cp.ted as ubone for                          Per capita supply of protein (crabs per davy  - Protein rontent of per capita
egrirnia-ral land only.                                                                       nt supply of fond per day; s-  supply af food is defined as sboe; require-
tnest   for all  ounrtree e-ablinhed by USDA Eonaie Research slrvice-
Vital stat ttisn                                                                                Provid  for atfaonallownce of~O 60ras of  .tota  pacasis per Lday, asd
1Crde birbtarate  cot a             .ounand. aneraRe- Annual lice births per th"nsand of         70 gras nf anial und pel1e protein, of obtab 10 grot abs   ha ann
old-year populuatno; tee-yost uritshrtic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protei; these standards are lessr thun those of 75 grues of antul pr-etin
snd fine-ya a averag.e ending it  1975 fto  neZu  recast eatinere.                            and 23 grt=o of animal protein 00 an nvaroge far the world, proposed by FAO
frudn death raut  per tbouna=dt   anerge - annal dauta per thouasnd of mid-year                 is tbe Third gUrld Food  urvay.
population; te-year arithretic  nverages ending in 1960 und 1970 snd fine-                  Per capita protein sneply faa animal und pnlo     - frnteein tpply of fed
year arerage endino in 1975 for  acet .reesteutima-n.                                         dertoed frp  naefoals sod pulses in gres per day.
Infant mortaulty rate (Uthon) -  Ans. l deaths of  infants onder one Yeur of age              Death rute (/thed,) ageS 1-4 - An I.. t de atth  per thennod Iin age gaop 1-4
pe h..... ad tinebirths.                                                                      year, an   ildtes in this  eS. group; -uggs-s  an an indi--te  of
Life espec.auny at birth (vra) - Anerage saber of years of life remuining at                    r1setritier.
birth; usually finy-year averages nodfng in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
im  countrie-.                                                                              Educatiop
Gronsrnprodrdion rate - erag-.g. uber of lire d.ughters  n w                  bnan will bear  Adlaatad  -erolLe=et ratio - priatry nhool - EnrolL- eet of all ageu us per-
it her normal reproductin   period if ah beperieeces present age-a pecific                    rentage of prinary shonl-age pepalatlon; lacldes abildran aged 6-11 years
fertility  rates; mually fivne-yar overagen endi=g in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     hat adjosred for different lengths of primary ed-ation; for coontries with
for denvlopitg -cpntries.                                                                     unelnrsol  nc tonice,         "eacllaien ay enceed 100. since s-ms pupiln are bel-w
PocPlation grwth rate (Ti - total - CPpou=d anunl growth rateo  of mid-near                      or  alone  the official school age.
populutton for 1950-60, 1960-70 sad  1970-75.                                                .diunaed enrollment ornio-seroadarst.ool - Cqputed ai sbone; nelond.ry
Po.alation goath  an9 (TI -lrban- Capeed likf  gr-wth rae of total                              ednestion aequtres at leattour years of npp--ved patra5y itroatine;
popalation; differe.c definitionm   of urban areas rny affect caporabiliry of                 provides general, nectional or teacher training instroott for papilo
iota annag contrerts.                                                                          of 12 an 17 Y.oa  o f a p; -orresponds-aemrose are gone-aly e..claded.
"rhan popu7atioP (7. of total) - fatin  of arhban  total population; diff-rent                  soirs  of a-hli   p-vded (fir t and  -econd  -evels  - Tntel years at
dsficitions of urban aress may affect nonpatability of data among countaieo.                  schooling; at secondary leve1  --uatinnal iln.-tiOu  may he partially or
caopletely ...laded.
/an atruatare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), notking-age (11-64 years),                   Vonational enrollment (7. If secodary  - Vocational inotitotio..  inclade
and retired  (65 years snd over) a       _ percentagno of nid-ysaa popalatien.                 technical, i.dcaicall nr ntnra pragauss which operac- independe-tiy or as
Agt dependency ratio - cauia of population  nder 15 and 65 and -ont to those                     depa-m-eet of  -erondary iniiutios.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                       LdIlt literac  rtat    ) - Lit-'rnt ndolts (nble to lned nd atme) as par-
acuncatla decandenry aeclo-      in R f populfeion under 15 srd 65 and cysr to                   cer-ng. or -nal adult Poanlatr_n aged 11 yeats und oust.
abs labor lace in age croup of 15-64 rears.
fail0  puanic - accecpori (fc,ulstive, thou) - funularire n.nber of acceptors                  bouting
of birth-control d-iren .nder enspipce  of natinaul fmuil  planning progree                 Persons per ronm (uaba) - Aerage naub-r of peronop  pea toa  it occopied
since inception.                                                                               conrcntional dwellIngs i nahian areas; dvellinga excrludre o_-pr.daneet
family plnnai. -c sts. (T of married wome) - Per-cetageo  of narried wonen of                    a ar c__reo   and unocopied Part
child-bearing aoe (15-44  _sarn) who uen bitb-coscr deo icers to all married               0ccupied dwellings nithont riced outer (7. - f.copied con-enoionul dwellings
neasnineo aage group.                                                                         in  -rbac and rural  rn  aithoct imaids at ou-tide piped outer facilities
us perceatage of all occnpisd d-wllings.
Epptloyment                                                                                    Access to elecericitn  (/. of ull d1eelianc) - tontnonol d-allingn  itl
octal Inbor force (thoanandi - tEona-iclly ariom   perunon, inaludiag arTed                      electricity in lining qourartr  as perceac of totas  dvellingn  in otban and
torcirn sd noemploynd bat eacl- didg hou-neives, stadroas, etc.; definitions                   aural  .reso.
in varioun countries are nor conprah.nb.                                                    Rural dwellings connected to electricity  (T) - Capated as above ft raural
Labor force in agriculture i7) -  faricolaturl labor farce fe fiatming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hu.,aing sad fishing) as perc_erugr of total labor farce.
Unemployed (. of labor force) - Ufmuployed are -     sin  defired as personsa wo               Connauption
are able and willing to ase a job. cot of   job on a gien day,  -emained oat                 Radio re. ivero  (pea rhce pop) - All types of raceineas for radio broadcasts
of a job, and neeking vork ror a spe-ified sisi,o-  period uot er-eedioc onee                  an  eneral p bl Ia yea rhua.and of pIpurfon   rbine  ,nitenad rerriar.
esk; may not be caparuble betwee  c -tntrins  doe ta differeat definitions                     in countries and in years when registration  of radio setn vas in etfeca;
of unemplayed and snurce of dait,   g. , maployneat office statiutica,  aaple                  duag fon  recent  years nay nor hr canperubc since most cobarrias abolished
surreys. capui-ory nuneplonmeet issurasce.                                                     licensing.
"uIssoetar  fea ~t~hee  ,pop  - Pase-9e   -rs caPria  ectet car  seting
locuse diotriharlone- Percentage of pri-atne inar (bfth in cash and kind)                        Jsa  alas eight pers        eacladet abulu-ceo, hearse  and o ilite-r
receivnd by richest 57, richest 207, pooront 2007, ned poorest 407. of hbse-                   vehicles.
bn1ds.                                                                                       EUntalicity fhkh/rl Percar )   A-nal coneaplion of industrial  caereial
public aed private el-cairoty in kilwatt boats Part -pits, gearaIlY
Dintributioa of land osaserebie -Perce-tages of land   sned by seaIthiest 10                    based on predaction data, wiahoat aleesa.ce for losses in grids but allow-
snd poorer  ilo/ ct land Ossern                                                                ing for imports and emp-ots of electric tiy.
NeesprInt  klayr oa  cep) - Per -spito anua Iosplnic hkOlogram
Health end Nutrition                                                                             estImated fr_ d astic paod-ctio- plot net inports of newsprint
Population per phyticisn - Population dinided by mahber of practicing
phyaltiant  qnalifled faa a medical school  ntintrslcy  Irval.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FY76 /a                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% FY69 constant price)
(at current prices)
US$
Million      %       FY71/72   FY72/73   FY73/74  FY74/75  FY75/76
GDP at Market Prices        1,286.8   100.0        2.8       20.1/b      1.2
Gross Domestic
Investment                   221.1    17.2    -20.1        -43.7      -37.5       33.0   -10.6
Gross Domestic Saving         250.3    19.5    -32.9        243.4       86.3
Current Account Balance       -17.3    -0.1         -       104.2       18.6
Exports of Goods, NFS         536.2    41.7       36.3       68.6       26.3       -6.5      2.3
Imports of Goods, NFS         586.5    45.6       -5.7      -23.3       -2.0       17.5   -11.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Added Ic       Labor Force          V. A. Per Worker
US$ Million      %      000% %                        of National
Averape
Agriculture          258.7         40.1   158        48.8   1,637           82.2
Industry              189.7        29.4    43        13.3   4,411          221.4
Services             197.1         30.5   123        37.9   1,602           80.4
Total/Average        645.5        100.0   324       100.0   1,992          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                       % of GDP
FY75       FY76    FY72/73       FY74      FY75     FY76
Current Receipts                 179.7    220.4        12.3       13.6      18.0     21.8
Current Expenditures /d          341.0    369.5        27.8       27.6     34.2      36.5
Current Deficit                  161.3    149.1        15.5       14.0      16.2      14.7
Capital Expenditures              33.1      43.0        5.8        3.0       3.3      4.2
External Assistance (net) /d  137.6    126.9           16.2      15.2       13.8      12.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                           FY74      FY75    FY76
(Million K outstanding end of period)
Money and Quasi Money |e                          284.0    240.2   224.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      -12.4       8.8    13.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     137.9    165.6   181.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                   27.3      23.8    22.1
Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100)                 143.3    154.1   167.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index (1971 = 100)               29.1       7.5      8.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  -164.2    167.7    53.4
Bark Credit to Private Sector                   16.6      20.1      9.8
/a  Preliminary.
/b  High growth rate due to large exports from Bougainville copper mine under
favorable price conditions.
/c  At factor cost.
/d  Includes salaries and allowance paid by the Australian Government to its
overseas officers in the PNG public service.
/e  PNG was until recently part of the Australian monetary and banking system.
Figures on money and quasi money through PY75 are therefore only estimates.
June 23, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE FY74-76)
FY74    FY75      FY76 /b                           US$ Million        %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods             676.3   514.4    455.8        Coffee                     47.3          9.2
Import of Goods              330.4   493.9    445.4        Cocoa                      42.0         8.2
NF-Service (net)             -29.6   -52.2    -60.7        Copra & Copra Products  48.2             9.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -) 316.3   -31.7    -50.3          Timber                     22.3         4.4
Copper Ore &
Factor Service Payments                                      Concentrates            328.1        64.0
(net)                    -306.3  -161.7    -89.7        All Other Commodities   24.4            4.8
Net Transfers                 222.6   158.2    122.7          Total
Balance on Current                                            (excl. Re-exports)   512.3         100.0
Account                   232.6   -35.2    -17.3
Private Capital              -95.4   -34.4        -9.1     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Public MLT loans (net)         53.8    45.2       19.2
Direct Investment             210.2    97.7      48.9                                     US$ Million
Other Capital n.e.i.          163.7  -143.6    -66.0
Residual (surplus)           237.5   -70.3    -24.3        Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         336
Nonguaranteed Private Debt            -
Net reserves (end year)        -       161.1    127.5      Total Outstanding & Disbursed         336
FUEL AND RELATED MATERIALS                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY76 Ic
FY74    FY75      FY76                                               %
(US $ million)
Imports                   28.9    52.5       60.0       Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          4.7
Exports                     -       0.1       0.1       Nonguaranteed Private Debt               -
Total Outstanding & Disbursed         4.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                  IBRD/IDA LENDING (as of 05/31/78)
FY71                       FY75                                                         IBRD     IDA
US$1.00 = KO.89            US$1.00 = KO.79                                              (US$ million)
Kl.00 = US$1.12            Kl.00 = US$1.37
Outstanding & Disbursed   54.6    31.3
FY72                       FY76                            Undisbursed                  16.4    16.9
US$1.00 = KO.85            US$1.00 = KO.79                 Outstanding incl.
Kl.O0 = US$1.18            K1.00 = US$1.27                   Undisbursed                71.0    48.2
FY73                       7/1/76 - present
US$1.00 = KO.78            US$1.00 = KO.80
K.O00 = US$1.29            KI.00 = US$1.25
FY74
US$1.00 = KO.68
KI.00 = US$1.47
/a  PNG as part of the Australian monetary system had no complete, separate balance of
payments. Figures on private capital and monetary movements are rough estimates. The
country has not had foreign exchange reserves on its own until the last year.
/b  Preliminary.
/c  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
June 23, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of May 31, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                              Amounts (US$ millions)
Number      Year    Borrower   Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three credits and four loans fully disbursed   44.7    11.0              -
326-PNG    1972      PNG        Ports                      9.2        0.6
348-PNG    1973      PNG        Livestock                  5.0         1.7
999-PNG    1974      PNG        Power II         10.8                 0.9
1333-PNG    1976      PNG        Agriculture      12.0                12.0
661-PNG    1976      PNG        Education                  4.0        3.6
677-PNG    1977      PNG        Roads                     19.0       11.0
1551-PNG /a 1978      PNG        Ports II          3.5                 3.5
Total                                71.0    48.2         33.3
of which has been repaid              3.8
Total now outstanding                67.2    48.2
Amount sold               7.9
Repaid                    2.2         5.7
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                            61.5    48.2
Total undisbursed                    16.4    16.9        33.3
/a Not yet effective
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit No. 326   First Ports Project; US$9.2 Million Credit of July 21,
1972; Effective Date: February 8, 1973; Closing Date:
April 30, 1978
The original project consisted of extending port facilities at Lae
and Kieta, land reclamation for new storage facilities at Port Moresby, a
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2
new port development at Alotau, provisions of mechanical handling equipment,
and consultant services. Work on all the original port improvements included
in the project has been completed; the contract for improvements to the Ocean
Wharf at Kieta, subsequently included in the project, has been let. There
will not be any expenditures for mechanical equipment as originally foreseen.
Papua New Guinea Harbours Board's revenues have not kept pace with increasing
operating costs and, in 1976, an operating deficit occurred. Further tariff
increases are required to preserve PNGHB's sound financial position; the
appraisal mission for the Second Ports Project estimated that tariff increases
would permit PNGHB to earn an acceptable return on net fixed assets. Total
cost of the civil engineering projects is practically the same as previously
reported. In order to fully utilize the credit, it was agreed to expand the
area of reclaimed land in the port area in preparation for the proposed
second project. The small remaining balance is expected to be disbursed very
soon, and it is therefore not intended to extend the closing date.
Credit No. 348   Smallholder Livestock Credit Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of January 4, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project supports the Government's program for development of
livestock production by smallholders. Subloans are made through the Papua
New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) to smallholders for beef, pig, and
poultry production. Technical assistance to smallholder livestock producers
is provided by the Department of Primary Industry (DPI). The project also
provides for farmer training, in-service training of DPI extension staff, and
for upgrading livestock research. Physical progress of the project has been
good in that the total number of subloans has been in excess of the appraisal
estimate. However, the size of subloans has been much smaller than
anticipated at appraisal and only about 66% of the credit was disbursed at
May 31, 1978. Despite major changes within PNG following independence, the
project has proceeded quite well. The major recommendation of the last
supervision mission is that DPI and PNGDB establish a system to monitor and
evaluate the projects in order to improve overall project management. In
order to fully utilize the credit, an extenion of the closing date will be
necessary.
Loan No. 999   Second Power Project; US$10.8 Million Loan of
June 12, 1974; Effective Date: December 27, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This project consists of three distinct items:
(i)  training of local staff to permit an early and
rapid reduction of expatriates;
(ii)  modest distribution expansion covering needs
through 1979; and
(iii)  a shortfall in foreign exchange for Loan 737-PNG
because of the devaluation of the US dollar.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Procurement of distribution materials is under way. As for staff
recruitment, ELCOM did experience some difficulty at the time of independence
in reaching the target figure due to movement of overseas staff back to
Australia and suitable replacements. Expatriates originally selected as
trainers have not always been suitable. To overcome these problems partially,
ELCOM employed management consultants to conduct training courses or to
provide guidance. The results have been very encouraging and the project now
seems to be proceeding satisfactorily. Local staff have been gradually
taking over daily operations.
Loan No. 1333   Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palm plantings
and processing facilities around Popondetta. The 4,000 ha nucleus estate and
factory, which are to serve both estate and smallholder production, are being
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit facilities for smallholders to be provided through the
PNGDB; extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance
for project management, social infrastructure, and improvement of the road
network. The nucleus estate company started oil palm plantings in Feb-
ruary 1977, about eight months ahead of appraisal estimates. Oil palm and
cover-crop establishment, and maintenance standards are satisfactory.
Residing settlers have completed about 300 ha of oil palm planting and the
nucleus estate about 600 ha, which is ahead of schedule. Smallholder plant
material is raised in the estate nursery where seedlings develop satisfac-
torily. The oil palm research program is being reviewed by CDC and DPI. The
first nursery fertilizer trial has been laid out.
Credit No. 661   Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Credit of November 19,
1976; Effective Date: January 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is helping to finance the expansion of five educational
institutions (in agricultural, health, primary and secondary teacher training,
and technical fields) and, in addition, supports planning and studies essen-
tial to long-term development of the education and training sector, including
an experimental program at five rural vocational centers. Generally, project
implementation is on schedule. Progress on civil works is satisfactory.
About two thirds of all civil works contracts have been awarded and construc-
tion has started at four out of five institutions. Equipment procurement and
recruitment of technical assistance experts are slightly behind schedule.
Both the Project Management Committee and the Office of Project Coordination
have been established. Disbursements are expected to be made on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 677 Second Highlands Road Improvement Project; US$19.0 Million
Credit of January 28, 1977, Effective Date: March 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project would improve and pave 68 km of the Highlands Highway.
It would, further, provide detailed engineering and feasibility studies of
the same highway, in preparation for further improvements in rural develop-
ment studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and technical assistance to
local civil engineering contractors. Civil works are proceeding generally
on schedule. The Chimbu rural development study will be delayed by about
nine months, and the Enga study by about 14 months, pending completion of the
appraisal of a rural development project in the Southern Highlands, which
should provide some useful lessons for the Enga and Chimbu studies. Appoint-
ment of consultants for the technical-assistance component is expected by
July 1978.
Loan No. 1551   Second Port Project; US$3.5 Million Loan of May 18, 1978,
Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 16, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project will provide container handling facilities at Port
Moresby, with the objective of avoiding ship waiting time, reducing ship
turnaround time and significantly reducing cargo handling costs, thereby
enabling Port Moresby to realize fully the greater efficiency of container
shipping. Major components include land reclamation of 1.6 ha, a 125 m
berth, an extension of the present container freight station, and improve-
ments to the port access road. Also included in the project are a 30 m
coastal berth at Samarai, located on a small island off the coast of Southern
Papua, and consulting services for project design and implementation, and for
training Papua New Guinea Harbours Board staff.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project           : 2 years
(b) The agencies which have prepared the
project:                                   : Departments of Finance;
Primary Industry; Health;
Education; Decentraliza-
tion; Commerce; Works and
Supply; Public Services
Commission.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA          : August 1974
Date of first IDA mission to consider
the project                                : February 25, 1975
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                    : August 25, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations         : June 9, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness              : November 15, 1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
The Association plans to send a supervision mission shortly after
Board approval.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to establish Agricultural Field Trials, Studies
Extension and Monitoring Unit (para. 36);
(b) Government to establish Media Unit (para. 37);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  PNGDB and PNGBC to require, as a condition for making subloans,
that at least three bids be obtained from at least two countries
for items of machinery and equipment costing in excess of $100,000;
Government to use local procurement procedures, including force
account using hired plant, where appropriate (para. 55);
(d)  Receipt of a satisfactory financial plan for tea development
as a condition of disbursement (para. 56);
(e)  Establishment of Headquarters and Provincial Project Coordinating
Committees and appointment of respective managers as conditions of
effectiveness, and appointment of Provincial Project Financial
Controller by December 31, 1978 (paras. 58 and 59);
(f)  Government to establish Southern Highlands Management Authority,
and amend the Articles and Memorandum of Association of the Southern
Highlands Development Corporation, as conditions of effectiveness
(para. 59);
(g) Onlending terms to PNGDB and PNGBC and terms to subborrowers
(para. 61).



IOTTT                                        AT3L3I' 0                                      305                                                                                                         FBRD 3269
-snr  / \J              ~. ^<   EAST  SEPIK                                         PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                                                        NEVV IRELAND3   PA.  f/C
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  I                                                                     MANUS5       I    -0
-- t-j---E                   SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                                                                             j
POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION                                           .        EAST   Pr    0897360      7                             .i
W  E S T                                                  "-. __    '                                       Poprt:or-nunar ofer   persons:                             __    SEP0        CN  )          /  WEST NEWi             J IITAE |N  SWT
OA>D0a.    ---~~~~~~~~~~~~Lr&             r'.                   I LL
S E P I K                      "'                            I                                               .  301-500         NoIe hopinoln fgror rok-no                  N   NK0 3,_<,HGHSj,            .
_00 -300               .,1 ag Nr0r P6oooc                       >          I'JAiS 5h08081 *                   EAST NEW PRITAIEN
I 9 A   '.A  !                                 A  L.ssnalth  100                                                         GUL       
A A                                                                   - %  v  A  ~ !   ENGA  Main highways                       WESTERN    nf>,DN           >                                       .
-. I                                                                                         T,2 \ * hnoads f tour whree aroveaven.oles   --n- y ~ flNORTHERN                                              Sot "       SeA
OPIAGO    O     w                                                        Procis                              __                                                                 it
Hrsimr                                                                                                                          f<7 W | 3-30|- orro,  Ow,n  Nt-                         MELNE EAY
t   w&6AuE.gzba=                                                                                                            4CERA L
otU                 I                                                                                                            j f 1ALSTRAOIA                   C a0974   57.            - iA ;'w
'- ._ fl"'           I                                                                                                                                                                       roo  1w 30'
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
\   GanR Topand;>5  )Kwangsb                     \                                                 ~~~~~~~~~E N G A  r_ 
N         OC,          TOAC
K~~~~~~O
\ \  ICror,loCi,1Q59  )l |  und   E ndaC    \       \              /                        M)AT IIAGEN
\ obXvxs 4 b-Ph                         \ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<4    C '  -> 
W  E S T E R N                     IE,T N                                        -a                                              ,, ,             - ,  I                                              RN OS
M~~~~~~~                                                                                     Wor                N                   . j         -N. 
I  tw                                  rord                               4,C-               N                 H~~~~~~~~~~~IGHLANDS
I    0011                                     r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v. KN~~~~~~~CHI        
i08001        ..  .M....       ..  ..                              G     U     L    F
142'50                                       --3{00'                                      14330'   s              C                    14d -00           ECCOO   0






IBED13269
j     142 30                                     113;0 U                                     143-J0                                  7=                                                              FeERUlARY T148
S5042 j                                                    EAST    SEPIK                                  PAPUA  NEW   Gt   UINEA                                                                                                    ETESARY 1908
fV.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           GUINEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW ICELAND PAFC
'N'                                     RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  I                                                                 MAMaS        !       - W               COLA"
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                           `EN.R                                                 '% I  r!  m >5
jPOPULATIIN  DISTRIBUTION                                       ,        EAST   >4    MAN                    '.                '
I                                                                                 ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPIK    -.
l!   >              <->~~~~~~~I 0Ia put3icanaauLerof parsons.                                                                       j,-_             )   \I)      ;  /  WSAE5 NqEW WITrAIN \Agi%       E GR lL
W E S T          \         /               /             1>                                             *  Over 500                              ~'rE i_EN6A< W                       L     9 g -L-  _> _      4r,    1ANOLI
S E P I K                                                                                        A                                                                             i301500  NPFaulaaaanl,a.r  f   . )NGH.    i  (
100 300        Vd                                     SOUE eatp    A-EAS    OL
41,0 1~04' 0 HIOE r                       E    ASE NEW RETAIN
A u~aa                                                                                                                        I AA -i~'"''ENGA  WE
s + . o \A|                                                    Roqas                             -   A                                                   wel nsil  aaalares  0" '.0 E           /'T
*                                                                                                                                                                 >a      / .  <   <,,  I  -  :    '    "'/  i L , <   .  X , ...bdf
6''  easa                                                                                                 facets  Steel'            I          NM              IWtNE RAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLN  6k
INS  A  toa                                                                                                      MOO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~`II    E
a. A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AcENTAL
N   ,                            'a\       8    '                                                                                                                               Ta,aa,artaa waaaa'aaaaanaah iea ataIaAA,O .alaff aI a erls o xyen
\                                                -Aol,E  Talande  jade.  s  '  .                                                E N G A
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HE
W                     K OEA S  To.R N                         - 1\_-
a0                                                        ----.                                                 ENXbu G2OAA *Ar/
-1     3R                 l  A'                                                        d\ta
N                 P-~~~~~~~~C~~~~~~g    \                            s~~~~~~~~~    I                        MT HAVEN~~~~~~~C    IM    
O  10      20      30             50                                   b%\x<                                                                                               
O           10          20             0                              a j                                                 _ gp                                                                    _._
Nll s                              a < i                              - .                                                    _ ,G                        U   L   F
13-'30_                                                                                      14.a  1  0






I RD 13387
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1423r                                                                     143:r 1330r XL  ,t -2 ,  Lr|!B~flsLLy
--.   EAST  SEPI K                                               PAPUA NEW G
PPANWGUINEA                                          ~4 r;.~ya.
! < RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I                                                      5A                                    ' -
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                     SPi                     
HEALTH COMPONENT                                                        WS 
W    E    S   T    l                                  4             i                                                     *    Propoxed   health  subenters                                  I                  )        0vPt                                                     h
* Existing hospitals,                                               r    ENGAw
S E P I K                                                            r                                                     .  Esisting health centetrs                                             "'  ',*
EsWixtg health xocenex                                                 CTHAE  ebAHIG         OCE
A   Existing heoith aid pasts                                             IL-.                 ->
GULF   N' '                                                       t
ENGA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                 -     Manhighways                                                  WE$SE N
,   \           |                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rosas -tour wheel drive vehicle,                               F   l    lf    \  s         rfea s                        720WeF5.s54l>
~  )*tv\  i Riers yr1S *Ev........ i *k ; > r S r .lG- .............................Rivers                                                         n1v                                                   ttW%i        o A h
Provincial - oun dr es d, i  ,Ir
5  300  <   \96  tj1  j  5  3  V , i ;. < p 2 W .e !, F [ flg jl 5 i S rz 1n ffi 500  2  .  r<  fR041r'/                                                                                                                            ( 
A 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OArtc
,_ 1400                                             144 30'
'N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AF
\                                                                                                                                                                       HIx   HL N  D
\K.,  sOO A               asbexI PA
WE ST E RN                             i          ,         os    U,s  At,,C, n*, MP   ,n                                                                                                         H~N                WESTENS
/ 4Teontof                                                 (          /        )4L  Sk  OKw_Ia                g g            K                     t~> T
S~ ~                                     1 20  30-                                                          t''-    Sf y,i >Y  
40'2  ~                          X  Lod@ffi@ ~~9~                             K>/vJu 2;D<n_<   X 5  t 45t Ku z+ TL.d...                                                                                          C H I M B U
10~~~~~ -p ......-                                                                                                                               3                     RV  > v          *KessoT,
0             10             20            30 4 019Sw.
i_._ _._._._  _  _;_ _ _ P>_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~.                           . .  . .    . . . . . . .                                G     U   L   F
1d2430                                7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~43-00'                             143-30'                                             144-00'                                             I14-'V_ 






1IBRD13388
It2-30                    13ino 1r3 00                                                            c=:                                           zi.-nar3m                                 E              .,. ............                             .,0 ..  , '>f ,4 MEP !ERUAEY 1,98
5....                                                              ES    S    1                                          PAPUA NEW  GUINEA                                       50.or--
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I                                                                                             1:4N 1                     OCE
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                                    It
EDUCATION COMPONENT                                                                  s                                                            i
WE5r   )_   +    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                           *  Exii.anutsshc:s           ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~C                           /sN49heM'-EOcOi5Vio
WESTP,,- Pro                                                                         hsghols                                       i                                                                    t
EINGA0 -
*Enio3.|E high schodls                                            WSN0                                                                 -
f/Ae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rl                                                             GoA9m)  XotHr        in g oc h n l :    c en ters   s                             - c   , . , M e G O        h Ah N  P 8   O   i .=T A  N;f9   
\        5,       \t,                                                                                                                                                  X ro  twA'ra mil Ph mewmbm    em   S1AOoiosn:rssOsncniy   occos     seOO54L NOc1Yo -MOC)  4or
E.g -.tl-l -t...                           ~s                             a- lN /                  I
| uw W F 5 T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                          .i   R   N- , ,  , ,, i*.i y   >  j4hs - ]                        I    W GE5T  I C*  
Main high ;ioJWEST
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rcs ENGACI h..*4                                                                                                                                dlcdcoei4Y
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~, '4n ISn <                                              X                 t    o( oo8 ci>5IN2
A KOPIAG                                                                           P- 3U 4050-!.  5 b-d. ,   .                         _                        --o                                         o
Id2gJ0'  143i00'                                       1J3-3D              \                             144o00                                            1^4-3C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t4n00001toocsrr.risocc0,cfco24c Ocesc
Nop jn                                                                                                                                                 N  G   A
A  ~ ~ ~ 0o              ft       Ooogooo                                                         oo- *.- 
W   E    S    T    E    R    N                                                                                                   S.                                                    W   E ST E RN~~oo  A0~~   . 
A- 
O       70       20       40       4t      so  
O             10           20            30
M,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 0h4e                                                                                                                          40                                                so
ri0 c Nc cc 3 coo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~GU   



