Document of                               C 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  CoPY
Report No. 1985-PNG
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 22, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       Kina (K)
K 1=                       $1.37
$1                 =       KO.73
K 1,000,000         =      $1,370,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (1,000 kg)   =  0.98 long tons
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer         =  100 ha
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAL US ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AFTSEMU  -  Agricultural Field Trials, Studies, Extension and Monitoring Unit
APO      - Aid Post Orderly
ASL      - Above sea level
BTWG     - Building Technology Working Group
Council  - Local government or village councils
CSIRO    -  Commonwealth Scientific, Industrial Research Organization
DCC      - District Coordinating Committee
DOIC     - District Officer-in-Charge
DPI      - Department of Primary Industry
DWS      - Department of Works and Supply
FCC      -  Field Communication Centers
HAC      - Highlands Agricultural College
HEO      - Health Extension Officer
HQPCC    - Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
HQPM     - Headquarters Project Manager
MCH      - Maternal Child Health
MP       - Member of Parliament
NEC      - National Executive Council or Cabinet
NHC      - National Housing Commission
NMB      - National Mapping Bureau
OBD      - Office of Business Development
PCC      - Provincial Coordinating Committee
PPCC     -  Provincial Project Coordinating Committee
PPFC     -  Provincial Project Financial Controller
PPM      -  Provincial Project Manager
PNG      -  Papua New Guinea
PNGBC    -  Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation
PNGDB    -  Papua New Guinea Development Bank
RDT      - Rural Development Technician
RIP      - Rural Improvement Program
SHDA     -  Southern Highlands Development Authority
SHDC     -  Southern Highlands Development Corporation (Holdings) Pty. Ltd.
SEMA     -  Southern Highlands Management Authority
SHP      -  Southern Highlands Province
UPNG     - University of Papua New Guinea
WP       - Western Province
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.






PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.  Project Background . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
B.  Project Related Sectors  .I.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
C.  Government Policy  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
III. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION.                                            9
A. Introduction.. . . .9
B. Structure of Government .10
C.  The Situation in the SHP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
IV.    THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
A.  Project Objectives ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......   .   13
B.  Brief Description  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .   .    14
C. Detailed Features .       .       .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
D.  Project Cost ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .   .    30
E.  Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .   .    32
F.    Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
G.  Disbursement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .   .   34
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
A.  The Project Organization and Management Concept  . . . . .   35
B.  The Southern Highlands Management Authority  . . . . . . .   36
C.  The Southern Highlands Development Corporation
(Holdings) Pty. Ltd.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
D.  The Tea and Coffee Enterprises . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
E.  Extension Services ... .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   38
F. Media Unit .            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
G. Department of Works and Supply .       . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
H. The National Housing Commission .       . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
I.  The Executing Agencies ... .  .  .   . .....  .  .  .  .  .   .   39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Papua New Guinea in September 1977, consisting of Messrs. M. J. McGarry
(Bank), R. A. Cash, F. A. Connor, R. Frame, H. W. Mitchell, C. J. Redfern
and Ms. G. Buchbinder (Consultants).



Page No.
J.  Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
K.  Policies for Sublending  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
L.  Accounting and Auditing ................ .   42
M.  Monitoring and Evaluation  .....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   43
VI.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION   ......  .            .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .   .   43
A.    Coffee   .  .   .  .    .   .  .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .  .  .   .    .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  43
B.  Tea  .............                     ......        .....       ..   .    44
C.  Cardamom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
VII.  MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
A.    Coffee   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  46
B.  Tea   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
C.  Cardamom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   47
D.  Silk   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
A.  Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
B.  Nutrition  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    48
C.  Quantified Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
D.  Risks    .   .   .   .    .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .  .    .   .   .    .  .   .   .  52
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . .. . . . . . . . . .   52
ANNEXES
1.  The Project Area - The Southern Highlands Province  . . . . . . .   55
2.  Areas Selected for Subsistence Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
3. Supporting Tables and Charts .66
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File . . . .   74
LIST OF SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS (ANNEX NO. 3)
Table No.
1.  Exports of Major Commodities, FY73-77  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   66
2.  Major Export Crops - Participation of Papua New Guineans and
Expatriates, 1972-73 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
3.  Economic Rate of Return Calculations on the Coffee Component .               68
4.  Economic Rate of Return Calculations on the Tea Component  . .               69
5.  Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Cardamom and Silk
Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   70
6.  Economic Analysis of the Poroma to Koroba Road . . . . . . . . .   71
7.  Phasing of Project Costs . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    72
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   73



Chart No.
World Bank 18358 - Partial Structure of the Papua New Guinea Government
World Bank 18362 - Provincial Government - Government Department Relationships
World Bank 18395 - Project Organization Chart - Interrelations at National and
Provincial Government Levels
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13269 - Southern Highlands - Population
IBRD 13267 - Project Components - Roads, Electric Power Line, Tea and Coffee
IBRD 13387 - Health Component
IBRD 13388 - Education Component






I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea (PNG) has requested an IDA
credit to help rinance an integrated rural development project in its Southern
Highlands Province (SHP). The SHP is one of the poorest and remotest provinces
in PNG. Furthermore, it is probably one of the most backward areas of the
world. Project components include nutrition, cash cropping (cardamoms, mulber-
ries, coffee, tea), health, roads, electrification, and formal and nonformal
education. This project would represent the first Bank Group effort aimed
specifically at the rural poor in PNG. IDA assistance would be focused mainly
on providing additional funds to enable the Government to implement the project,
building the technical and administrative capability of the provincial agencies,
and introducing a system for monitoring and evaluating the development impact
of these initiatives.
1.02      The Government was responsible for the preparation with assistance
from the IDA. The initiative and ideas for project preparation originated
mostly at the provincial level and this is regarded as an important feature
of project design and should greatly increase the likelihood of success.
B. Project Related Sectors
General
1.03      PNG became independent in 1975.  It is a land of mountainous
terrain, scattered over a mainland and several large and small islands. It
has a land area of about 498,600 sq km, which is slightly larger than the
Republic of the Philippines, and a population of about 2.8 million. Rugged
mountains rising to over 4,500 m, thick forests, vast swamps and large rivers
divide the country into many diverse ecological zones. These natural barriers
have undoubtedly led to the wide cultural and linguistic diversity found
among the people. The people of PNG are classified as Melanesians, but
smaller admixtures of Micronesian stock occur around the Admiralty Islands.
Because of the nature of the terrain, local groups are isolated from each
other and a tremendous amount of diversity exists.
1.04      Some 2.4 million people or 86% of the PNG population live in rural
areas where social services are generally poor, economic opportunities
limited and productivity low. Unemployment as such is virtually nonexistent
since being unemployed is not a viable option. The natural increase of the
rural population is about 2.9% p.a. and the annual rate of migration to the
towns and cities is about 1.5%. Consequently, the rural population is
growing at about 1.4% per year, and the urban population at about 12% p.a.,
placing considerable demands on the public sector for urban infrastructure
and services.



1.05      The total labor force in PNG is estimated at about 1.25 million, of
which only 150,000-170,000, or 13%, are engaged in wage employment, including
the public and private sectors and plantations. In 1976, there were about
353,000 people, including expatriates, or 28% of the work force, in monetized
activities. Of these, about 185,000, or 52%, were in primary activities, which
includes people who are involved partly in subsistence and partly in cash crop
activities. Since the growth of population is about 2.9% per year, about 36,000
people enter the labor force yearly. Growth of wage employment is not expected
to exceed 3% p.a. over the next decade and will cover less than 20% of the
labor force by 1990.
1.06      GNP per capita in 1976 was estimated at about $490.  The imputed
per capita income of subsistence farmers, however, is only about $150. According
to Bank estimates, about 75% of the rural population live in absolute poverty,
i.e. per capita incomes of less than about $220.
Agricultural Sector
1.07      The agricultural sector is the largest in the economy and has
contributed about 30% of GDP in recent years, down from over 40% in the late
1960s. Another 20-25% of domestic output comes from one copper mine, the
Bougainville Copper Ltd. opencast mine at Panguna in the North Solomons
Province. Another 20-25% of domestic output is generated by the activities
of the central government. The remaining 20-30% of output comes from
manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, hotels and tourism, finance and
insurance, nongovernment construction and personal services.
1.08      Apart from forestry and fisheries, there are three subsectors within
the agricultural sector: (a) subsistence agriculture; (b) smallholder cash
crop production; and (c) plantations. The share of subsistence agriculture
in the economy declined from about 27% of GDP in 1968 to about 17% in 1975.
This does not mean that subsistence agricultural output has declined in
absolute terms, only that it has declined in relative importance. It is
estimated that about 70% of all families depend upon subsistence agriculture
for a living. In many areas, however, cash enterprises produce coffee, cocoa,
oil palm, cattle, poultry, and, in a few areas, vegetables alongside traditional
subsistence activities such as pig farming and taro, sweet potato, yam and
cassava production. There are 500 to 600 plantations, mostly in the northern
half of the mainland and the larger islands, which are generally owned by
expatriates but increasingly being acquired by locals. These plantations
employ about 22% of the total wage earners in PNG, or 35,000 people.
1.09      The total value of commodity exports over the period FY73-77 has
averaged K 385.1 million annually, of which about K 135.1 million, or 35%,
originated in the agricultural sector (Annex 3, Table 1). The main agricul-
tural exports are coffee, cocoa and copra. This is a remarkable change
from the years prior to the commencement of copper exports from the North
Solomons Province in 1970/71 when agricultural commodity exports accounted
for up to 90% of the total value of exports. Expatriates play the dominant
role in the production of nearly all important export crops, but in recent
years Papua New Guinean producers have become increasingly significant
(Annex 3, Table 2).



-3-
Roads
1.10      Mainland PNG is divided geographically into three regions by a
central elevated plateau and mountain chain (Highlands) which separate the
low-lying alluvial coastal plains on the north coast from those on ^-he south.
The Highlands comprise about half of the total area of the mainland and
contain 40% of the population. Roads linking the Highlands to the north
coast have been constructed in the last 30 years, but there is still no
connection to the south coast and the capital at Port Moresby.
1.11      The total length of all classes of roads maintained by the
Government and local government councils amounts to 19,537 km. Of this total,
7.5% is classed as highway and 87% as trunk, feeder and access roads. Much
of the emphasis on road construction in past years has been directed at
regions producing crops that are marketable overseas. The Highlands have
benefitted from this in that expatriate landholders started growing coffee
in the 1950s, and production from both plantations and smallholders became
sufficiently important to develop the Highlands Highway from the Port of Lae
on the north coast to Mendi in the SHP. The Bank helped finance part of this
road improvement under two previous projects.
1.12      More recently, political pressures at the village level have shifted
the Government's attention towards providing basic road access to remote
communities, and current objectives regarding road construction in PNG are to:
(a) construct a highway linking all main population centers; and (b) provide
access roads to all areas and population centers for access to markets, and to
facilitate access to them by government agencies in education, agriculture and
health.
Health Service
1.13      The number of hospitals, health centers, health subcenters and aid
posts in PNG as of January 1974 was as follows:
Health institution       Government       Church       Total
Hospital - general            18               2          20
- special            1               8            9
Health centers                97             40          137
Health subcenters             43            155          198
Aid posts                 1,280              167       1,547
The structure of the health service is pyramidal; the hospital is on top with
health centers and subcenters at the next level and aid posts at the base.
Ideally, there should be no more than one hospital per province. At the next
level the health center serves a population of a defined area which does not



-4 -
overlap that of another health center. Each center should service a minimum
population of 5,000 and a maximum of 20,000; the optimum rural size is
considered to be 12,000. The present ratio of health centers to population is
1:22,400 (range 1:9,900-1:30,400).
1.14      Health centers differ from hospitals in that they provide for compre-
hensive health services including health improvement. Health center staff have
the additional job of patrolling, i.e. carrying out health center functions at
a distance from the center. Each aid post, for example, should be visited
every three months. Special patrols carry out immunization campaigns in rural
areas. Centers are staffed by a health extension officer (HEO), who is the
officer-in-charge, as well as by nurses and orderlies.
1.15      A health subcenter is an institution providing, within a health
center area, a limited range of services, including the treatment of out-
patients, health education, community health nursing, and obstetric care.
Subcenters have some maternity beds. Staffing includes either nurses and
orderlies, or orderlies alone.
1.16      The aid post is an institution providing base level comprehensive
health service to a small defined population of from 500-3,000. Services
provided include outpatient treatment, health education, and advice on
environmental improvement. The aid post also cooperates with the health
center in disease control activities and community health nursing. An aid
post orderly (APO) is the only staff. At the present time, the ratio of aid
posts to population is 1:1,547 (range 1:990-1:5,360).
1.17      The crude birth rate remains high in PNG at 44.6 while the crude
death rate has gradually declined to 16, resulting in a population growth
rate of about 2.9% p.a.
1.18      The disease pattern in PNG is typical of a developing country.  Of
the leading hospitalized conditions treated (73% of the total) for all age
groups, 65% were due to infections. Over 66% of deaths were also due to
infections. The major infectious diseases, as in many developing countries,
are pneumonia and gastroenteritis. Typically, these diseases have the greatest
impact on the very young and very old. Though in the past up to 50% of
children in some areas may have died before reaching age 5, there has been a
significant lowering of the under-5 death rate in recent years. The infant
mortality rate is now estimated to be 89 with a 1-4 mortality rate of about
12 per year. This reduction in the under-5 mortality rate is probably the
main factor in the fall of the crude death rate.
1.19      Per capita recurrent expenditure for health services at about $12
is high for a developing country and is supported to a considerable extent by
overseas aid rather than being related to internal revenue. For 1977/78, the
Department of Health will receive a recurrent budget of 7.8% of government
expenditure. There are wide inequalities in the distribution of resources
per capita between districts (K 3.16-16.21 in 1972/73) and between rural and
urban areas (K 6.69-22.06 in 1972/73).



-5-
Educational System
1.20      Formal education and training in PNG are divided into primary,
secondary and tertiary (postsecondary and higher education) levels.
(a) Primary Level
1.21      This level covers six years beginning at age seven.  In 1976,
238,318 children were enrolled in about 1,800 community-based primary schools,
i.e. 57% of 7-12 year olds, an increase of about 8,000 over the 1975 figure.
The number of students enrolled in Grade I in 1976 was almost 52,000, or about
68% of 7 year old children. The long-standing, long-term objective is for
universal primary education. The 1976-80 Education Plan proposes to expand
the primary system so as to enroll 82% of the 7 year age group in Grade 1 by
1980 and 92% by 1985. Educational planners think this objective is possible
despite a rapid growth in the school-age population, and they foresee it being
achieved by an increase in the number of teachers trained and in the student/
teacher ratio.
1.22      If this target is realized, the imbalances in educational oppor-
tunities between provinces and between the sexes would be largely eliminated.
However, while near universal primary education can possibly be achieved in
the more developed provinces by 1985, this goal is considered overly optimistic
for the less developed highlands provinces. This is because of the highly
dispersed settlement pattern in the highlands and because of the extreme
reluctance of highlands parents to educate their daughters. Until this
attitude changes, there is little hope that 92% of the total 7 year age
group will be enrolled in these areas by 1985, although it is possible that a
very high percentage of boys will be enrolled by that time. Thus, while it
may be possible to equalize educational opportunity between provinces in the
near future, it will be much more difficult to equalize opportunity by sex.
(b) Secondary Level
1.23      Provincial high schools offer a four-year course in two stages of
two years each. In 1976 there were 29,465 students enrolled in 80 high
schools, about 12% of all children aged 13-16. The Grade 7 intake in 1975
represented 33.4% of the 1974 Grade 6 enrollments but only 16% of the whole
13-year age group. Forty percent of high school students are forced to leave
school at the end of Grade 8.
1.24      There were seven new high schools opened in 1975, mainly in disadvan-
taged provinces and mainly in temporary buildings. This rate of expansion is
not likely to be sustained in the next few years, although 34 new schools have
been approved for opening by 1980. The rationale for this expansion is both
to increase Grade 7 enrollment to 18.3% of the 13 year old age group by 1980
and to equalize educational opportunity for children by location as well as by
sex. In 1975 the proportion of 13 year olds enrolled in Grade 7 ranged from
6.9% in the Eastern Highlands Province to 48.9% in East New Britain. The
imbalance in sex ratio is such that girls made up only 30% of Grade 7 enroll-
ments in 1975. Although 70% of students are boarders, government policy is



- 6 -
that new schools should be small day high schools for about 250 students
rather than large boarding schools.
C. Government Policy
Problems
1.25      The central development problem facing the Government is the dual
nature of the society that is emerging as economic and social change has
come to a people that until this century was almost untouched by modern
influences. This duality raises not just issues of equity and social justice
but affects the very cohesion of the nation. In many ways the emergence of a
dual society was inevitable, at least in the short run, once the country began
the process of modernization and economic growth. How to contain the social
pressures resulting from this duality while pursuing economic growth and
modernization is the essence of the problem facing the Government.
Government Objectives
1.26      The Government White Paper entitled National Development Strategy,
published by the National Planning Office in October 1976, sets out the
key priorities and objectives as follows:
(a) Improved Distribution of Income. The White Paper states that a
more equitable distribution of income is a government objective.
It also explicitly states that the development strategy is not one
of maximizing growth and recognizes that trade-offs may exist
between the goals of maximizing growth of the total economy and
bringing about a more equitable distribution of income.
(b) Improved Regional Distribution of Social Services. Since access to
social services (such as health and education) varies tremendously
between provinces, the Government's objective is to increase relatively
the level of social services in the provinces with the lowest levels.
(c) Satisfaction of Basic Needs. Given the backwardness and poverty of
PNG, the Government considers that direct action to attack the
problems of malnutrition, illiteracy, sickness, inadequate clothing
and poor housing is the only course of action likely to significantly
contribute to a solution of these problems in this century.
(d) National Integration. Given the problems of communications in PNG
and the vital importance of further integrating such a diverse
people politically, economically, socially and culturally, the
Government places high priority on road construction and other
means of communication.
(e) Increasing the Monetary Sector. The long-term objective of the
Government is for all the people to participate in the monetary
economy.



-7-
Government Strategies
1.27      The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as follows:
(a)  Nutrition Strategy.  The Government White Paper states t at an
important element of the National Expenditure Plan will be joint
programs of extension and health education aimed at introducing
nutritionally superior food crops and at educating rural people on
more suitable diets, particularly for children. A position of
nutrition planner has been established at the National Planning
Office. An Interdepartmental Food and Nutrition Action Committee
conducts nutrition activities at the provincial level. The Govern-
ment gives the highest priority to the development of farming
systems which increase or sustain subsistence production per head.
With 70% of the population depending on subsistence farming for a
living, the importance of these efforts is apparent. The Government
is also committed to correcting and preventing deleterious nutritional
practices as evidenced by its recent decision on baby bottles. It
outlawed over-the-counter sale of baby bottles; doctors' prescriptions
for bottles will be required in those instances in which breast
feeding is not possible.
(b)  Rural Development Strategy.  Directing a higher proportion of
government expenditures to rural areas, especially the poorer
provinces, is the principal government instrument to improve both
the regional and interpersonal distribution of income, to focus
directly on basic needs, and to further national integration. As
central government activities generate 20-25% of domestic output,
the allocation of government expenditures bears directly and power-
fully on the distribution of income. Since in 1976 only about 28%
of the work force were in monetized activities and only 13% in wage
employment, price policy and such are not directly effective
instruments to achieve government objectives for over 70% of the
population. The key policies concerning rural development deal
with coordination of extension services, which are now provided by
specialists from a number of departments; diversification and
improvement of agricultural production, with high priority given to
food for domestic markets and improved nutrition; introduction of
appropriate, usually labor-intensive technology; promotion of
small-scale industries that are located in rural areas or support
rural industry; development of means to mobilize local savings for
local investment; redirection of the education system away from
formal schooling towards nonformal and vocational training; and
redistribution of health services toward rural areas. Recognizing
the need for basic road communication, the Government places high
priority on providing road access to all villages.
(c) Self-employment Strategy. Growth of wage employment is likely to
be well under 3% p.a. for the next decade and will cover less
than 20% of the labor force by 1990. Therefore, the Government's
development policies aim at the generation of additional opportunities
for income earning through self-employment, especially in rural



-8 -
areas. Cash cropping and livestock production are regarded as the
principal areas with good opportunities and prospects.
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.28      There is basic agreement between the Government and the Bank on the
problems of rural areas and the strategies for best coping with these problems.
The role of the Bank Group to date has been a relatively minor one, but increased
involvement is expected over the coming years.
1.29      Past lending in rural areas has been for roads, education, cash
cropping and livestock production. While such involvement was, and still
is, consistent with the Government's development strategy outlined above, the
scope of the involvement needs to be broadened. The proposed project is a
new departure for the Bank and would help the Government to make a comprehensive
and coordinated attack on the problems of one province in a way consistent
with national objectives.
1.30      Bank Group projects for the next few years will continue to assist
the Government to improve the extension and credit system for agriculture,
to further expand the communication system and to increase cash cropping,
but are also likely to include more provincial integrated rural development
projects such as the proposed project.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      The project would be carried out in the SHP.  The greater part of
the province lies between 1,500 and 4,000 m above sea level (ASL) and consists
of highland valleys and steep limestone ridges. Rainfall is high, the lowest
mean annual amount being 2,450 mm and the highest 4,500 mm. In general, the
soils of the SHP are infertile. Generally, areas below 1,800 m ASL are
frost-free, but above 2,500 m frosts are common. The climate is characterized
by a lack of seasonal contrast. The combination of high rainfall and poor
soils greatly limits the agricultural potential of the area. Coffee, tea,
cardamoms and mulberries appear to be the only promising cash crops.
2.02      The first recorded contact between the people of the SHP and the
outside world occurred in 1922 and the next in 1935, when Australian patrols
contacted parts of the area. Sustained contact, however, only occurred after
World War II.
2.03      The people in the SHP do not live in villages but in scattered
garden hamlets. They wear a minimum of clothing. Houses are constructed
mainly of grass or pandanus leaves on a light timber frame with the roof close
to the ground (to conserve warmth); the normally smoky atmosphere inside
contributes to the prevalence of pneumonia and other respiratory diseases.
The culture of the people prior to World War II was neolithic.
2.04      The population of the province is about 235,000 with an average
family size of 6.3. It is estimated that about 90% of the provincial labor
force (age 10 years and over) are involved in subsistence agriculture and home



duties, and only 4% in money raising activities (coffee, tea, cattle, cardamoms
and silk) on a more or less permanent basis. The remaining 6% are either
students or otherwise occupied.  Most of the work on subsistence food cropping,
pig rearing, child care, cooking, etc., is done by the women. The men clear
new lands, hunt -nd engage in social activities.
2.06      The pattern of land tenure is generally the same throughout the SHP,
the basic feature being that inheritance is patrimonial. Although clan lands
have recognizable boundaries, the basis of land use is individual ownership.
According to a knowledgeable Southern Highlander, some past attempts to inter-
pret the land tenure system as group or communal ownership have been very mis-
leading.
2.07      According to the 1971 census, some 8.1% of the population of the
SHP over 10 years old were literate (national average 31%); given the recent
introduction of formal education, most of these would have been in the 10-20
age group. Some 6.4% of those aged over 10 years could speak English and
5.6% Pidgin; the rest could speak one or more of the 16 indigenous languages or
dialects of the province. Nationally, 57% of 7-12 year olds and about 14%
of 13-17 year olds are enrolled in school, whereas in the SHP the respective
figures are 44% and 6.5%. These are among the lowest rates in the country.
Only about 15% of high school students in the SHP are female compared to a
national figure of 29%.
2.08      The SHP ranks last nationally in per capita expenditure for health.
In 1977, the per capita expenditure was about $4 and of this about 44% was
spent on the Mendi Hospital to which relatively few people have effective
access. A major problem is the high turnover of nursing staff because they
wish to return to their home districts, usually on the coast. The primary
health care level in the SHP is near the bottom nationally with an aid post/
population ratio of 1:2,060.  Over 53% of the population live more than one
hour's walk from the nearest aid post.  Malnutrition (<80% of standard weight
for age) occurs in 30-40% of children less than 5 years old and severe mal-
nutrition (<60% of standard weight for age) ranges between 0.2 and 5.5%.
There is a very close relationship between weight for age and mortality.
For instance, data collected by the Pneumonia Research Center at Tari in the
SHP show that while about 5% of children over the 80% line die before
reaching 31 months, 11.3% of those between the 80-60% line die, and 50% of
those under the 60% line die. In the SHP, about 203 children per 1,000 born
die before reaching five years, which is the second highest rate among the
19 provinces of PNG (Annex 1).
III. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
A. Introduction
3.01      In October 1976, administrative policies regarding restructuring of
the public service and the establishment of a system of provincial government
were determined, and the Constitution was duly amended to provide them. This
policy of decentralization will result in three levels of government being
active in the province - the national, the provincial, and local government.



- 10 -
B. Structure of Government
3.02      Central Government.  PNG has a Westminister type of government.
There is a National Parliament with 102 elected members, representing the
legislative branch of government. The National Executive Council (or
Cabinet) comprises the Prime Minister and 20 other members of ministerial
rank. Reporting to the National Executive Council (NEC) are the National
Planning Committee and a number of ad hoc committees. The judiciary consists
of the Supreme Court and the National Court, and district, local and village
courts.
3.03      Administration is carried out by means of a number of centralized
government departments each headed by a secretary, the right-hand man of
the minister. These departments are: the Prime Minister's; Public Services
Commission; Decentralization; Education; Foreign Affairs and Trade; Police;
Defense; Labor and Industry; Commerce; Lands and Environment; Finance; Health;
Public Utilities; Primary Industry; Transport and Civil Aviation; Works and
Supply; and Justice (World Bank Chart No. 18358).
3.04      Local Government, Area Authorities and Provincial Governments.  Local
government councils (councils) serve about 95% of the population. They provide
the means whereby the people can participate in the planning and implementation
of many government activities that affect their lives and welfare. The present
local government system originated in ideas derived from Western society,
though it is already broader in scope than its Western model. Area authorities
were proclaimed under the Local Government Act and still exist in provinces
that have not yet been granted provincial government. They draw their members
from councils and representatives from noncouncil areas. Members of Parliament
(MPs) from the province and the Provincial Commissioner are ex-officio, non-
voting members. The area authorities' main functions are to advise the central
government on development priorities in the province and to allocate Rural
Improvement Program (RIP) funds to councils and other organizations. Provincial
governments will soon supersede the area authorities in all provinces.
3.05      Decentralization of Government.  The Government is now in process
of modification by the decentralization of identified powers to provincial
governments, a principle to which the central government is firmly committed.
The Organic Law on Provincial Governments was passed by Parliament in March
1977, which implemented Part VIA (Provincial Government and Local Level
Government) of the Constitution, and 8 out of 19 provinces had already
established provincial governments by August 1977. This is in the process
of being effected for the SHP. The basic principles underlying the decentra-
lization process are that: there will be one national public service; there
will be a minimum duplication of activities; there will be a clear division
of responsibilities between national and provincial levels; and there will be
delegation of financial powers in step with responsibilities.
3.06      The expected structure of the Southern Highlands Provincial Government
is shown in World Bank Chart No. 18362.



- 11 -
C. The Situation in the SHP
3.07      Provincial Government.  Provincial Government was granted to the
SHP under the Organic Law on Provincial Government by Charter dat-d March 17,
1978. The Constitution of the SHP came into effect on the same day and this
provides that the Provincial Government consists of:
(a) the Assembly, having all the law-making powers capable of being
conferred on it by National Constitutional laws; and
(b) the Cabinet, responsible for the Executive Government of the
Province.
The Assembly will consist of the Premier, who is elected directly by the
people of the Province, members representing and elected by 26 constituencies,
and not more than two appointed members. The Cabinet will consist of the
Premier, the Deputy Premier and at least seven, but not more than nine,
members of the Assembly nominated by the Premier to be Ministers and approved
by the Assembly by an absolute majority vote. The Constitution provides
that, until the first provincial elections are held, the Constituent Assembly
for the SHP, which formulated the Constitution in accordance with the
Organic Law, will have the powers and functions of the Provincial Assembly
and the Executive Committee of the Constituent Assembly will have the powers
and functions of the Provincial Cabinet. It is this interim arrangement
that prevails in the SHP at present, but the first provincial elections must
be held within two years to effect the full transition to elected and
responsible provincial government.
3.08      Provincial Secretariat.  The Constitution of the SHP establishes
a Provincial Secretariat and allows for an Act of the Assembly to make
provisions in respect of it. No such Act has been passed to date but the
clear intention, as with all provincial governments, is that a small policy
secretariat will be appointed directly by the Provincial Government to provide
advice and assistance to the Provincial Assembly and the Provincial Cabinet.
This is allowed for by the Organic Law on Provincial Government, which further
provides that the National Government shall make an unconditional grant to
each provincial government to cover the salaries and allowances of six staff
members for the provincial secretariats. The Provincial Secretariat will be
headed by the Provincial Secretary.
3.09      Public Service at Provincial Level.  The Organic Law on Provincial
Government limits the size of a provincial secretariat to six persons but
provides that members of the National Public Service may be assigned to a
provincial government as provincial administrative staff. This is consistent
with the principle of maintaining one public service throughout the country
to operate at both provincial and national levels. The intention is that
there will be a department within the National Public Service for each
province that has been granted provincial government and that the officers
from various functional departments who work in that province will be trans-
ferred to the "provincial department" for that province within the National
Public Service. There will in due course thus be a Department of the Southern
IIighlands which will have Divisions for Primary Industry, Business Development,



- 12 -
Education, etc. This Department will be headed by the Administrative Secretary
for the SHP. The Administrative Secretary will be a National Public Servant
and will control his department in accordance with National Public Service
legislation, but in matters of policy he will receive his directions from the
Provincial Government. One of the main roles of the Administrative Secretary
will be to coordinate the various parts of the public service in the province,
and for this purpose the Provincial Government may decide to establish
coordinating committees under his chairmanship.
3.10      Provincial Government Functions.  The Organic Law on Provincial
Government provides for a threefold division of matters which may be the
subject of legislation: primarily provincial subjects on which only provincial
governments may legislate, concurrent subjects on which both the National
Government and provincial governments may legislate, and all other subjects
on which only the National Government may legislate. Primarily provincial
subjects are very limited in scope. Concurrent subjects cover a wide range
but most of them are already extensively provided for by existing National
Government legislation. For the time being, it is expected that most provinces,
including the SHP, will refrain from enacting their own laws on most concurrent
subjects, but administrative powers in these fields will be devolved upon
provincial governments by way of delegations under the National Government
legislation. The National Government is in the process of devolving powers in
this way on provincial governments and at the same time transferring staff in
the functional departments to the separate provincial departments. The
timetable for this is as follows:
Stage 1 - January 1, 1978: responsibility for Provincial Affairs,
Primary Industry, Business Development and Education
transferred.
Stage 2 - July 1, 1978: responsibility for Health and Government
Liaison transferred.
Stage 3 - January 1, 1979: responsibility for the functions of
other affected departments transferred.
3.11      District Organization.  The province is divided into seven adminis-
trative districts (Mendi, Tari, Koroba, Kagua, Ialibu, Pangia and Nipa) each
containing on average two councils and controlled by a district officer-in-
charge (DOIC) responsible for the maintenance of order, the development of the
district, and the coordination of the activities of the officials within it.
Every district is divided in turn into patrol post areas controlled by assistant
district officers, and staffed by an assistant patrol officer, a medical
assistant and an agricultural assistant. Technical departments and divisions
frequently have officers stationed at district headquarters if necessary.
3.12      District Coordinating Committee.  Each district has a District
Coordinating Committee (DCC) which is chaired by the DOIC and whose members
are the senior representatives of the various departments and divisions in
the district. Its role is to discuss, propose and implement projects at
village level.



- 13 -
3.13      Local Government Council Organization.  There are 14 councils in the
SHP and they are an important tier of government. According to the Local
Government Act, a council is a body corporate by the name under which it is
established with perpetual succession and a common seal and, subject to
legislation, has power to acquire, hold, dispose of, mortgage or pledge
property, to enter into contracts, to borrow money, to invest funds, to
institute and defer actions, suits and other legal proceedings, and to do all
other things necessary for the purposes of its functions and duties. Councils
would play important roles in the proposed project.
3.14      Councils are required to make annual reports on their operations
to the Minister for Decentralization for presentation to Parliament.
3.15      Southern Highlands Development Authority.  In November, 1976, the
SHDA was proclaimed and duly constituted under the provisions of the local
government legislation. It is presently located in the provincial offices in
Mendi. It is composed of nine members, six elected from the Provincial Govern-
ment and three appointed by the Prime Minister.
3.16      The SHDA is the business arm of the Provincial Government.  Its
function is to enter into business on behalf of the Provincial Government and
to exercise such other powers, functions, duties and responsibilities as may be
required for the successful management of any business. It provides management
services on a fee basis according to the type of service contract entered into.
3.17      As presently constituted it possesses a proclamation but no detailed
charter defining its principal and ancillary objectives other than the very
broad statements contained in its proclamation of formation. These statements
are susceptible to wide interpretation, e.g. the provision of management
services was interpreted as entering into business. It can invest in both major
or minority equity without objective criteria since its board is restricted to
public servants and there is no qualified, experienced professional manager or
financial executive on its staff. For these reasons it would be replaced under
the project by two new institutions: (a) the Southern Highlands Management
Authority (SHMA), dedicated exclusively to the provision of management services
and expected to be ultimately self-supporting from its fees revenue; and (b) the
Southern Highlands Development Corporation (Holdings) Pty. Ltd. (SHDC) as an
investment trust company wholly owned by the Provincial Government with power
to invest and hold equity in new or existing businesses. The SHMA and the
SHDC would play important roles in the proposed project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
4.01      The proposed project would be aimed at helping to achieve the
Government's objectives of a more equitable interregional distribution of
income, improved regional distribution of social services, satisfaction of
basic needs, national integration and increasing the percentage of the



- 14 -
population in the monetary economy (para. 1.26). IDA participation is also
expected to contribute to improvements in project design and implementation
procedures and to a systematic monitoring of the projec.is impact. The project
would represent the first step in what will clearly be a long process of
developing the economy of the province and helping the Southern Highlanders
to raise their present low standard of living to a substantially higher level.
B. Brief Description
4.02      The project would include:
(a) measures to improve the nutrition of the people by developing the
knowledge and capability to effect improvements in the subsistence
sector (field trials, training of extension staff and agricultural
data collection);
(b) establishment of about 1,280 ha of coffee, 850 ha of tea and the
related processing and support services;
(c) establishment of about 100 ha of cardamoms;
(d) establishment of an infant sericulture industry in the SHP by culti-
vating about 40 ha of mulberries on 400 smallholdings and providing
the associated technical and processing facilities;
(e) construction of 60 km of electricity transmission line mainly to
supply power to the coffee mill and tea factory;
(f) construction and staffing of a nursing school and in-service training
complex, three health subcenters, and support for a data collection
and epidemiology unit;
(g) upgrading and construction of 138 km of main road running east west
through the SHP, 40.5 km of feeder road serving existing and proposed
tea blocks, and the installation of small bridges and culverts under
about 900 km of minor feeder roads;
(h) construction of two secondary schools and provision of materials to
provincial primary and secondary schools and the teachers college; and
(i) strengthening the staff devoted to nonformal education and providing
materials and transport; an appropriate technologist would also be
recruited and given the necessary workshop facilities and consultants
as required.



- 15 -
C. Detailed Features
Nutrition/Subsistence Component
4.03      Not much is known about the subsistence agriculture of the region
except that it is presently not meeting the nutritional requirements of some of
the people, especially the children. Because the population is so precariously
perched on the border between nutritional adequacy and malnutrition, great
care has to be exercised in introducing change into the subsistence farming
system. For this reason the nutrition component of the project would basically
concentrate on generating the information needed to effect changes in food
crop production conducive to improvements in the quality of the diet, and on
training all the extension services' staff in communication techniques.
4.04      Provision would be made under this component of the project:
(a) to conduct field trials and village demonstrations of new crops
or crop varieties, rotations and husbandry methods;
(b) to provide in-service training courses for the Division and
Department of Primary Industry (DPI) extension workers in food
crops improvement, using existing knowledge and new techniques;
(c) to collate and review the extensive existing data and studies
relevant to subsistence farming in the Highlands;
(d) to collect data on land use, farm management, nutrition and
demography required for monitoring and evaluating project results
and for preparing further rural development projects; and
(e) to construct and staff a media unit at Mendi to be run by
the Office of Information to provide logistical and advisory
support in communication techniques to all government
extension services working in the province.
4.05      AFTSEMU.  The project would staff, house and equip a new Agricultural
Field Trials, Studies, Extension and Monitoring Unit (AFTSEMU). Six senior
staff would be required for a total of 25 man-years; these positions would
almost certainly have to be filled by expatriates during the project period.
Broad terms of reference for the unit's work would be to carry out objectives
(a), (b), (c) and (d) listed in para. 4.04. By December 31, 1981, the unit
would be required to submit to the Provincial Project Coordinating Committee
(PPCC) and to IDA a full written review of its work and knowledge gained up
to that time; this would include draft recommendations on policies and future
activities in the field of subsistence agriculture (and nutrition). Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.06      Training would be an important function of AFTSEMU.  In addition to
training the 70 DPI extension staff within the SHP, it is proposed to second



- 16 -
students/graduates from the Highlands Agricultural College (HAC) at Mount
Hagen and other training colleges to work with the unit for an average of
three months per trainee. This would result in a large spin-off of knowledge
and skills to personnel working in other provinces of PNG in addition to those
working in the SHP. The project would provide for a total of 32 counterpart
trainees to be attached to AFTSEMU for three months each during project years
two to five.
4.07      The six internationally recruited staff needed to staff the AFTSEMU
would be a Team Leader, two Food Crops Agronomists, Extension Training
Officer, Cash Crop Agronomist and Monitoring and Evaluation Officer. It was
assured during negotiations that prior to filling these positions, the
Government would consult with IDA and give it time to comment on the qualifi-
cations, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment of the
persons proposed to fill these positions.
4.08      In a number of fields it would be more economical for AFTSEMU to
employ short-term consultants than to maintain an expanded permanent study
team. Provision for about eight man-months of short-term consultancies per
year appears justified. Consultants would definitely be required by AFTSEMU
in social science/anthropology, livestock, and land use analysis. Other fields
to which consultancy funds could be allocated, with the approval of the Provin-
cial Project Manager (PPM), would be: nutrition; food marketing/processing;
soils; building technology; company law and business management (e.g. tea
companies). It was assured during negotiations that prior to recruiting
consultants, Government would consult IDA and give it time to comment on the
qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment of
the consultants proposed.
4.09      The project would finance houses for the internationally recruited
staff, a duplex for consultants, vehicles, equipment, training facilities,
salaries and operating costs of AFTSEMU.
4.10      Only a very limited land use survey has been carried out in the
province (in the Upper Mendi area) since a broad-scale survey carried out by
the Commonwealth Scientific, Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) in 1965.
Better information on current land use is needed for extension work, and only
periodic updating will permit accurate assessment of the extent of changes.
Rather than attempt detailed surveys on the ground in a difficult country
and on a subject that can easily excite local suspicions, the project would
provide for five sample areas covering a total of about 500 sq km to be flown
and 1:5,000 orthophoto maps to be produced. Such mapping has not previously
been carried out in the province although certain parts were flown and mapped
at 1:50,000 in 1959 and 1973. Flying would be carried out on contract, super-
vised by the National Mapping Bureau (NMB) who have had previous experience
with orthophoto methods and are equipped to produce the maps. NMB estimates
cost for flying, ground control, triangulation and map production for 500 sq km
in five areas of the SHP at about $62,000. Land use interpretation and a
written report would probably have to be provided by a consultant land use
analyst. Background and justification for selection of the five areas
proposed for orthophoto mapping and land use analysis are given in Annex 2.



- 17 -
4.11      Media Unit.  Extension work in the SHP in all fields would benefit
from access to better communication techniques and materials. Production
facilities are presently located in seven Field Communication Centers (FCC)
throughout PNG and are operated by the Office of Information of the Ministry
of Information and Broadcasting, with the nearest one to the SHP being at
Mount Hagen. Some use is already made of the Mount Hagen FCC by Southern
Highlands staff, but its location in another province restricts its usefulness.
The Government recently opened a local radio station at Mendi, but so far
there is a complete lack of suitable material either in pidgin or local
languages to support extension work. National government policy recognizes
the importance of rural-oriented communication services in promoting rural
development. The Government has therefore adopted the policy of establishing
media units (FCCs) in all 19 provinces as finance permits.
4.12      It is proposed that a media unit of the standard FCC-type be estab-
lished at the provincial headquarters in Mendi by the second year of the
project. This unit would have facilities for offset printing, photographic
reproduction and audio-visual operations, as well as providing communication
planning expertise to determine the best use of these media in conjunction
with departmental extension programs. The unit would be operated and staffed
by the Government Liaison Division of the Office of Information: this would
ensure continuity after the end of the project period.
4.13      The project would provide an office building, equipment, salaries
for two staff and operating expenses for four years since the unit would
not need to be operational for the project until the second year. Included
in project costs are salaries for an expatriate Media Unit Director, to be
replaced by a national after two years, and a national Field Officer.
The Government establishment already provides for a Liaison Officer and an
Assistant Liaison Officer to be stationed at Mendi. A government assurance
was obtained at negotiations that these posts would be filled by suitably
trained staff to ensure the proper operation of the media unit; and that prior
to recruiting a Media Unit Director, the Government would consult with IDA and
give it time to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms
and conditions of employment of the person proposed to fill this position.
Cash Crops
4.14      The poor soils of the SHP, coupled with the cool, wet climate and
high transport costs, severely limits the range of crops presently suitable
for cash cropping. Coffee, tea and, to a much lesser extent, cardamom and
mulberry are the only cash crops that at present seem to offer expansion
possibilities. Cash cropping in the SHP is a very recent experience:
cardamom was introduced in about 1974, tea and mulberry in about 1969, and
coffee in the 1960s. Many efforts to promote cash cropping among subsistence
farmers (smallholders) have failed in the SHP. For instance, pepper,
pyrethrum and cinchona were tried and failed. In neighboring provinces,
however, smallholder coffee has prospered following the establishment of
successful commercial operations which demonstrated to the local people how
to grow the crop.



- 18 -
4.15      The council-owned coffee blocks in this proposed project would
serve the demonstration function for subsistence farmers in the SHP and
attract them into coffee production. A Smallholder Coffee Extension Specia-
list would be recruited to help the DPI extension staff avail fully of the
demonstration effect. In this way, it is hoped to repeat the successful
experience of neighboring provinces where 70% of coffee is now produced by
smallholders.
4.16      In order to avoid establishing a provincial economy totally depen-
dent on coffee, the first steps would also be taken to establish a tea
industry in the SHP. The long-term expectation is that this industry too
would be predominantly a smallholder industry. The initial step into tea
production, however, is generally a vertically integrated operation based on
estate production, because before planting tea one needs an assured factory
outlet, and before building the factory one needs a guaranteed supply of
green leaf. In the proposed project, each of the tea blocks would be owned
by a company in which the SHDC (para. 3.17) would be the major shareholder.
The tea factory would be owned by the SHDC with possibly a private tea company
as a partner. Smallholder tea production would be encouraged by the DPI
extension service concurrently with the block development under this project,
but a major expansion in smallholder tea production is not expected to occur
until later, under a possible phase two project.
4.17      The provincial government and councils would also derive much
needed revenues from these commercial ventures. Such revenues are essential
to improving the welfare of the mass of the people by increasing the level of
services the province can sustain, e.g. primary education, some aspects of
health, roads.
4.18      The SHMA would be established under the project as a purely manage-
ment company and would derive its income from management and technical service
fees (para. 3.17). It would manage the council coffee and cardamom blocks,
the coffee mill, the tea blocks and the tea factory. All coffee, tea, and
other minor cash crop development under this project would be on a commercial
basis. This means that the owners of enterprises would put up equity, and
loan funds would be obtained from the Papua New Guinea Development Bank
(PNGDB) and the Papua New Guinea Banking Corporation (PNGBC).
4.19      Coffee.  This component would:
(a) extend the 350 ha area of the ten existing local council coffee
blocks by 50 ha in total and establish a further five council
blocks with an average size of 50 ha: the total area to be planted
would be 300 ha (IBRD Map No. 13267);
(b) establish 45 group coffee blocks with an average size of 10 ha, the
total area to be planted being 450 ha; the blocks would be owned by
some or all of the members of the clan that owned the particular
pieces of land developed;



- 19 -
(c) establish approximately a further 530 ha of smallholder coffee on
about 2,500 holdings, thus increasing the area of smallholder coffee
in the SHP from about 500 ha to 1,030 ha;
(d) build a coffee mill in the SHP for hulling parchment cilfee produced
by the council blocks, group blocks, smallholders and the private
estate;
(e) recruit a Coffee and Cardamom Supervisor to the DPI staff to oversee
the overall development of coffee in the western part of the province
and also to supervise the cardamom component; and
(f) recruit a Coffee Extension Specialist to work with smallholders.
4.20      The coffee component would increase the number of council coffee
blocks to 15, which would be owned by 12 councils. Of the two council areas
not involved, one, Erave, has the only privately owned coffee plantation in
the province, and the other, Kutubu, is in a very isolated area too low for
growing arabica coffee. Cardamom is deemed a more suitable crop in the
Kutubu area (Pimaga site) than robusta coffee, mainly because the area
relies solely on air transport and, thus, the higher value for weight
cardamom has the advantage.
4.21      In all except one case, council coffee blocks would be on land
purchased by the central government and leased on a 99-year term to the
council or a company owned by the council. The one area of land not pur-
chased has been leased by the central government from its owners for 25 years
from 1976 and released to the council concerned.
4.22      Each group coffee block would be established on land owned by the
business group formed by some or all of the members of the clan or subclan
that owns the land. They would probably be established around the council
blocks and be fairly evenly distributed throughout the areas where coffee
would be grown. About 30 business associations of various kinds have been
established by groups of Southern Highlanders in recent years.
4.23      The 15 council blocks would act as "nucleus estates" around which
smallholder coffee development would be encouraged, both on an individual and
on a group basis. The blocks would act as centers for demonstration, pro-
duction of seedlings, training of laborers who would later become producers
and collection points for parchment coffee. The 530 ha of smallholder coffee
proposed under this project would be produced by about 2,500 smallholders
with an average lot of around 0.2 ha. Though very difficult to estimate, it
is thought likely that the 450 ha of group coffee blocks proposed would be
owned by about 1,800 smallholders. The Coffee Extension Specialist would
aid these developments. It was assured during negotiations that, prior to
recruiting the Coffee Extension Specialist and the Coffee and Cardamom Super-
visor, the Government would consult with IDA and give it time to comment on
the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment
of the persons proposed for these positions.



- 20 -
4.24      The coffee mill would be built in 1978, the first year of this
project, and would process all the parchment coffee produced in the SHP,
regardless of source. If the coffee mill were to be delayed past 1978, the
Coffee Industry Board fears that many small, inefficient mills might be built
in the SHP instead of the one proposed.
4.25      Tea.  This component would:
(a)  establish five tea blocks on government-owned land in the four
eastern council areas of the SHP. Each block would be owned by a
company in which the SHDC would be the major shareholder. Minor
shareholders may include the local council and local people (including
the previous clan owners of the land), either as groups or as
individuals. The area under tea blocks in the SHP at present is
about 140 ha. The total area that would be planted to tea blocks
under this project would be about 800 ha (IBRD Map No. 13267);
(b)  establish on 125 smallholdings about 50 ha of tea (present area
about 20 ha);
(c)  build a tea factory; and
(d)  pave and upgrade some 40.5 km of feeder roads serving the tea
blocks to Access Class 2 standard.
4.26      The five tea blocks would average about 160 ha each and would be
developed at Inambu (Iaria), Apenda, Ita, Lamane and at one other site to be
selected. These blocks would serve as "nucleus estates" around which small-
holder tea development would be encouraged. The blocks would be used as
centers for demonstration, production of planting material and purchase of
green leaf from the smallholder "outgrowers".
4.27      The 50 ha of smallholder tea would be produced by about 125 small-
holders at convenient points for leaf collection near the blocks or along the
roads to the tea factory. The amount of smallholder tea to be established
during the five-year project period would be small; however, if the tea
component is successful and tea growing becomes more popular with the small-
holders, the area of smallholder tea could easily be expanded once the nursery
program for the blocks is completed at the end of the third project year.
Funds would not be needed for additional infrastructure and staff.
4.28      It is proposed that the factory would be constructed in 1981 but
would only start operating in 1982 when the estimated annual output would be
686 tons of made tea, reaching maximum production of 1,886 tons p.a. in 1986.
This is the minimum production needed to justify building a tea factory in
the SHP. As leaf production continues throughout the year in PNG, with only
minor seasonal variation, the factory would operate year-round.



- 21 -
4.29       Minor Cash Enterprises - Cardamoms and Silk.  This component would
provide for:
(a) the establishment of a 50 ha council block at Erave, and 25 ha
cou_.il blocks at Pimaga and Komo, for the production of cardamoms;
(b) the encouragement of cardamom production by smallholders in the
vicinity of the cardamom council blocks; and
(c) the cultivation of 40 ha of mulberries by 400 smallholders in eight
locations in the SHP, and the associated developments necessary
to produce silk.
4.30       Cardamom. The cardamom blocks would provide revenue for the two
councils (Erave and Pimaga) that would not have coffee blocks in the project.
Cardamom would provide a high-value product that is worth the high cost of
air transport from these three remote areas where road access is either non-
existent or very difficult (IBRD Map No. 13267).
4.31       Cardamom is presently being grown at Erave at the DPI center on
smallholdings and on a coffee estate. There is also a plot of cardamom
interplanted under banana trees at Pimaga. The climatic conditions make
Erave, Pimaga and Komo suitable for cardamoms. The DPI extension staff would
encourage smallholders in the vicinity of these council blocks to also grow
cardamoms.
4.32       Silk.  It is proposed that 8 ha of mulberries be developed annually
during the five-year project development period. These 40 ha would be owned
by about 400 families where each family would have 0.1 ha. The food crop for
silk, mulberry, can grow on marginal land which would be unsuitable for the
cultivation of other plantation crops. It is also fast growing and production
can be achieved within eight months of planting.
4.33       A silk subcenter would be built in each of the eight areas in the
SHP where sericulture would be encouraged (IBRD Map No. 13267). The silk
subcenter would receive eggs from the Kagamuga Silk Center, hatch them and
rear the larvae to the third instar. The larvae would be fed with leaves
from a communal mulberry plot, which would be established at each subcenter.
The third stage larvae would be distributed to smallholders who would raise
them to the stage where they would produce cocoons, which would then be sold
to the silk subcenter. A Silkworm Pathologist and a Silk Fiber Technologist
would each be recruited for five years under this project. It was assured
during negotiations that prior to filling these posts, the Government would
consult IDA and give it time to comment on the qualifications, terms of
reference, and terms and conditions of employment of the persons proposed to
fill these posts.



- 22 -
Electrification
4.34       The electrification component of this project would consist of
extending the Yonkie transmission line about 60 km from Mount Hagen to Kaupena,
the site of the coffee and tea factories being constructed under this project.
The initial capacity of the transmission line would be 22 kVA, but provision
would be made for the later addition of a 66 kVA line (IBRD Map No. 13267).
Health
4.35       This component would support:
(a) construction and operation of a nursing school and in-service
training complex;
(b) construction and operation of health subcenters in Kagua and
Ialibu Districts; and
(c) support for a data collection and epidemiology unit.
4.36      Nurse and In-service Training.  In discussing nurses' training the
National Health Plan states that "despite the lower level of education of
entrants, priority will be given to Highland districts in the opening of new
government schools, with Mendi being given first priority." It is proposed
that a training complex be constructed adjacent to the Mendi Hospital. The
complex would consist of male and female dormitories, messing facilities,
classrooms, administrative block, tutor and ancillary staff accommodation, and
security fencing for the female nurse area. Accommodation would be provided
for nurses, nurse's aides, staff and students for in-service training.
Teaching demonstration material and messing facilities would be shared by the
various staff categories. The complex is expected to have the capacity to
train 30 first-year nurses, 25 second-year nurses, 20 third-year nurses and
30 nurse's aides, and be able to accommodate 12 male and 12 female in-service
training personnel at any one time. Based on present dropout rates, 15
graduates per year would be expected under the proposal. The nursing school
would serve both SHP and Western Province (WP). There is no nursing school in
WP and Mendi would be the closest area for study.
4.37       Technical assistance in the form of specialists in nursing education
(school principal) and health training are also required. The principal would
assist in assembling the nursing school staff and be responsible for preparing the
curriculum and school policy. The provincial health training officer - ideally
a medical officer - would be responsible for design and implementation of an
in-service training program for all staff, particularly field-oriented staff.
This officer would convene a training committee of health section heads and
the principal tutor of the nurse training school to assist in course content
and methodology. If the nursing principal or the health training officer are
expatriates, a PNG counterpart would assume primary responsibility after
3-4 years. It was assured during negotiations that prior to filling the post



- 23 -
of principal of the nurse training school and health training officer, the
Government would consult IDA and give it time to comment on the qualifications,
terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment of the persons
proposed to fill these posts.
4.38      The justification for the training complex rests prt.Larily on
projected need for more nurses and the lack of health training facilities
in SHP. If present staff is not expanded by 1981, there would be a shortage
of 114 nurses in SHP. In WP there would be a shortage of 44 nurses by 1981.
4.39      Compounding the situation is the implication of localization.  The
national nurse work force is not a particularly mobile one. There is reluc-
tance on the part of coastal domiciled nurses to accept rural postings,
especially in the Highlands. At present, only 30% of SHP nurses are in fact
Southern Highlanders and there are constant requests from nurses for transfers
back to coastal areas. Unfortunately, the capacity of coastal nurse training
schools far exceeds the capacity of Highland schools. Nor is it feasible to
redress the area imbalance by increasing Highland intakes at coastal schools.
SHP is conservative and parents are often unwilling to release girls for
training at coastal centers.
4.40      Provincial nurse's aide training (about 30 per year) is currently
undertaken at the Mendi Hospital. The training functions under makeshift
conditions which places an unreasonable burden on both staff and trainees.
No accommodation is provided and trainees are boarded with missions and
friends. No classroom is available and the staff dining room at the hospital
is used for all lectures. There is no tutor sister and the hospital matron
undertakes training in her spare time. Training at the moment is hospital-
oriented.
4.41      The field staff, particularly APOs and community nurses, are often
given limited in-service training. Most basic training has been done outside
the province at centers that often lack relevance to SHP field situations.
Various health improvement sections within the province have attempted
in-service training, but to date many of these programs have been planned and
presented in isolation from other sections. Heavy work loads by supervisory
staff have prevented continuous attention being given to staff training.
HEOs are supposed to visit APOs on a regular basis; however, the HEO has
numerous responsibilities and the APOs may only be seen in the field every
three to six months. In a recent evaluation of the aid post orderly system
in the SHP, a medical anthropologist noted that possibly the most important
improvement to be made in the system was the provision of frequent feedback
through in-service training. In-service training (about two weeks per year)
would give the APOs clear instructions on how and why they should modify or
continue their activities. Frequent supervisory visits would also help to
achieve this. It must be emphasized that the APO is the only health worker
in frequent contact with villagers.



- 24 -
4.42      Health Subcenters in Kagua and Ialibu Districts.  It is proposed
that health subcenters be built in the Sumi and Sumbura areas of Kagua and
the Kisenapoi area of Ialibu. At each subcenter a block (standard design), a
ward, two staff houses and one utility block would be required. Two trained
nurses and four nurse's aides would staff each subcenter. Kagua Health
Center, serving a population of over 25,000, currently has three qualified
sisters (1:8,480). Cases of late obstructed labor occur more frequently in
Kagua than other areas. Ialibu Health Center, serving a population of 24,400,
also has only three sisters (1:8,140). The national policy for staffing is
estimated at one nurse per 3,000 accessible population. The population of
both these areas is often physically difficult to reach. Adequate distribution
of physical services is an important prelude to improving accessibility and
utilization of services (IBRD Map No. 13387).
4.43      The Data Collection and Epidemiology Unit.  It is proposed that
support be given to the data collection system of the Pneumonia Research Unit
at Tari. This would mean providing support for field staff, a vehicle, a
director for the unit and funds for analysis of data. The unit was established
in 1970 with the aims of: (a) defining the problems of respiratory infection;
(b) evaluating a pneumococcal vaccine; and (c) determining the pattern and
causes of mortality or morbidity.
4.44      The present state of the data is that records have been coded,
translated to punch cards and stored on magnetic tape. Analysis is now being
conducted at the University of Sydney Computer Center by Dr. Ian Riley, the
original director of the project. In brief, the established files are: (a)
demographic data 1972-74 - biweekly morbidity on 12,250 persons; (b) demo-
graphic data 1974 - similar information from the mortality area with listing
of 13,383 persons; (c) mortality information - details of 2,100 deaths from
1970-76; (d) acute respiratory diseases 1971-74; (e) chronic (nontuberculosis)
lung disease for 1971 and 1974; (f) retrospective fertility for 774 women
1975/76; (g) social monitoring in 1975/76 of a random sample of 1,594 persons -
includes income, cash cropping, contact with news media, housing, religion,
education, and knowledge, attitude and practice of contraception; and (h)
nutrition - retrospective analysis of maternal infant welfare records 1965-74.
4.45      Present funding of the unit from national and provincial budgets
expired in May 1978. The body of baseline data on births, deaths,
migratory patterns, wealth, nutritional status, etc., affords a unique oppor-
tunity to evaluate the impact of the economic programs upon these parameters.
Support should continue for the unit and a director (an epidemiologist or
demographer). It was assured during negotiations that prior to filling
the post of director of the unit, the Government would consult IDA and give
it time to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and
conditions of employment of the person proposed to fill the post. Ideally, a
coordinating parent body should be found for the unit. Such a group might be
composed of members of the Institute for Medical Research in Goroka and
representatives from the Provincial Health Office and AFTSEMU.



- 25 -
Roads
4.46      This project would support:
(a) up--.ading and construction of 138 km of main road between
Poroma and Koroba:
(b) paving and upgrading of 40.5 km of feeder roads serving existing
and proposed tea blocks; and
(c) installing small bridges and culverts under about 900 km of minor
feeder roads (IBRD Map No. 13267).
4.47      Poroma to Koroba Road.  A section by section costing has been
carried out and is as follows:
km              $'000
Poroma to Nembi Escarpment              4.2              325
Nembi Escarpment                        4.0            1,094
Nembi Escarpment to Nipa               15.1             1,049
Nipa to Margarima                      26.5            1,523
Margarima to Tari                      46.0            1,697
Tari to Koroba                         42.0            2,161
Subtotal                         137.8            7,849
Engineering supervision (8%)                             628
Base cost estimate                                8,477
4.48      Design has been carried out in accordance with the standards for
Rural Class III between Poroma and Margarima and Access Class I between
l4argarima and Koroba.
4.49      Final design has been carried out for the road between Poroma and
the Nembi Escarpment. Construction is actually complete for the first 6 km
and an estimate of cost has been prepared based on final quantities for the
remaining length of road.
4.50      The Nembi Escarpment is the most difficult part of the road.  A
deviation was originally planned but found to be impractical. The existing
alignment has been surveyed and a preliminary design undertaken to improve
tight curves and gradient. Cost estimates have been based on the above
preliminary design giving preliminary quantities. The steep grades on the
Nembi Escarpment would be sealed to improve traction.
4.51      On the Nembi Escarpment to Nipa section, preliminary survey has
been carried out with the exception of 10.2 km where a final center line
survey has been undertaken. Two kilometers of final design has been carried
out and used as a basis to provide a linear rate for estimating, since the
terrain traversed is similar for the total length of this section.



- 26 -
4.52      For the Nipa to Margarima section, contours were prepared from con-
trolled aerial photography giving an accuracy of + 1 m. These have been used
to prepare a longitudinal section for grading together with cross sections
for estimating quantities. The preliminary design has been rigorously
checked in the field. Cost estimates are based on this design procedure.
4.53      The most difficult parts of the road between Margarima and Koroba,
which is that part going through the Tari Gap, have fortunately already been
built. For instance, the 33 km from Teigo to Tigibi traversing the Gap
requires only minor earthworks to improve sight distance on corners and to
provide extra passing areas. Only preliminary design has been completed for
the remaining parts of the Margarima to Koroba road.
4.54      Three small bridges are required to be constructed between Poroma
and Margarima. Of the nine existing bridges between Margarima and Tari, only
one needs to be replaced but three require strengthening. From Tari to Koroba
there are five existing bridges, three of which are wooden and would be
replaced. The other two would need strengthening, and there is a possibility
one would need relocating.
4.55      A full materials investigation has been undertaken for the entire
road from Poroma to Koroba and preliminary indications are that there is no
shortage of pavement material anywhere along the route.
4.56      Feeder Roads.  This component would involve minor earthworks to
improve sight distance, the provision of an all weather pavement to carry a
greater number of vehicles and, where required, bridges and culverts. These
roads would give access to tea blocks. While a minimum standard of Access
Glass 2 is desirable, this would not always be possible because it would
entail excessive costs for many sections of the roads.
4.57      Culvert and Bridge Component.  This component envisages provision
of funds for councils to procure and install culverts and bridges for
existing feeder roads not serving tea producing areas. This would allow the
annual K 500/km grant for road maintenance to be fully employed on repairs
of the road surface rather than on repair of inadequate drainage structures.
In some areas where drainage is a problem, 25-50% of the maintenance funds
and effort are directed towards repair of log bridges. The result of this
work would be to improve village communications and facilitate access by
extension service officers.
Formal Education Component
4.58      This component would provide for:
(a) construction and operation of two new secondary schools;
(b)  recruitment of an Agricultural Lecturer at Dauli Teachers College;
(c) provision of materials, supplies and equipment to community
schools, high schools and the Dauli Teachers College.



- 27 -
4.59      Two new high schools would be built, one at Koroba and the other at
Pangia (IBRD Map No. 13388). The construction of the Koroba high school would
begin in 1979 and take four years to complete. Construction of the Pangia
school would begin in 1980 and would also take four years.
4.60      An Agricultural Lecturer at Dauli Teachers College would be hired
into a permanently established position; this person would be a national
officer and would teach preservice and in-service students agricultural
practices relevant and useful in the community school situation.
4.61      Community schools, high schools and the Dauli Teachers College would
be supplied with materials, supplies and equipment to be used to demonstrate
community development projects (mostly concerned with improved subsistence and
nutrition) as follows:
(a) Community Schools. One hundred and twenty community schools would
each be provided with materials, etc., worth a total amount of K 500
over the project period. These tool kits would contain the following
items: gardening equipment, spades and bush knives; cooking equipment;
equipment for a poultry project; and practical books and teaching
materials.
(b) High Schools. Seven high schools would each be provided with
materials, etc., worth a total of K 3,000 over the project period.
These tool kits would contain the following items: ovens and other
village type cooking facilities; food processing equipment; poultry
and other livestock raising equipment; gardening tools and seeds;
and materials necessary to develop practical skills and village
level technology.
(c) Dauli Teachers College. The Dauli Teachers College would be supplied
with materials, etc., worth K 4,000 over the project period. Its
tool kit would contain the following items: gardening tools and
seeds; food processing equipment; poultry and other livestock
raising equipment; and village level technology equipment.
Different schools would probably select different projects and would thus use
their equipment allocations in various ways, subject to the approval of the
provincial education board.
4.62      The Dauli Teachers College would be provided with hired transport
for field trips for 50 days p.a. and high schools for 25 days p.a., as follows:
(a) High Schools. Transport for a community involvement program
would initially be on a pilot project basis, but if successful,
all schools would be phased in. Hire of transport for staff and
student programmed involvement in community projects of K 500 p.a.
per school. This is the equivalent of 25 hire days p.a. of a
long-wheel base, four-wheel drive vehicle.



- 28 -
(b) Dauli Teachers College. Transport for practical field trips by
students and the Agricultural Lecturer would amount to K 1,000 p.a.,
equivalent to 50 days hire p.a. The money would be used to hire a
variety of vehicles depending on the destination, number of students
and nature of the visit.
Nonformal Education
4.63      The adult education staff in the SHP would add to its present staff
of one Provincial Adult Education Officer: (a) one Provincial Adult Education
Coordinator; and (b) seven District Adult Education Officers. The Adult
Education Coordinator would be internationally recruited and would be hired for
a period of three years. Part of his job would be to train the Provincial
Adult Education Officer to assume his duties and to replace him. It was
assured during negotiations that prior to filling the post for Adult Education
Coordinator, the Government would consult IDA and give it time to comment on the
qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment of
the person proposed to fill the position.
4.64      District Adult Education Officers would be based at each of the
seven district centers. In order for these personnel to adequately carry out
their tasks, further inputs in terms of transport, accommodation and travel
funds, materials, funds for training courses for villagers and allowances for
selected village level motivators would be necessary.
4.65      These officers are to be provided with transport in the form of
motorcycles and four-wheel drive vehicles. Two vehicles would be allocated
(one at Mendi and one at Tari) as well as six trail-model motorcycles once
all the district level officers are employed. Additional funds for accommoda-
tion and travel would be necessary so that the officers could travel within
their districts and attend provincial level workshops and meetings. Learning
materials (including literacy primers, books, pamphlets, etc., in various
languages) would be needed to assist both literacy and practical education
activities. Other practical materials required include tools, equipment,
etc., which would be used by various practical training centers and community
group projects.
4.66      Short training courses would be conducted for community leaders
and other people nominated by their communities. These courses would
focus attention on local community development problems and practical
possibilities for improving village life. Certain part-time instructors
(e.g. literacy training teachers and field extension assistants) not based
in their own villages would require allowances. Such people would play a
major role in assisting and supplementing the work of the District Adult
Education Officers.
4.67      The adult education officers would assist in involving formal
education institutions (community schools, high schools and the teachers
college) in the process of village level development. These institutions
can contribute by educating students to community development needs and by
exercising a more direct influence within the local community.



- 29 -
4.68      Vocational centers have the stated aim of preparing trainees
for life in the village situation. Their curricula and programs are more
varied and flexible than those of the "mainline system."  There have
been problems relating to follow-up assistance for ex-trainees and the fact
that most of thl trainees are Grade 6 leavers who only do a one-year course.
At present the center at Pangia is one of five in the country testing a
pilot program in community education as part of the Bank's First Education
Project. The center is to become more extension-oriented, more responsive
to local needs, and better able to provide training in the village and to
adults as well as school leavers. This new focus only started in early 1977
and it is as yet too early to evaluate its results; should they be favorable,
it is proposed that the other three vocational centers in the province start
to reorient their emphasis and programs in a similar fashion. In order to
do this it would be necessary for:
(a) vocational center staff to become involved in the provincial
in-service program; in addition special training sessions would be
necessary to enable staff to learn from Pangia's experience and
also from that of adult education officers;
(b) four-wheel drive vehicles to be supplied to vocational centers to
enable field extension and training programs to be implemented; and
(c) inputs to be made available for practical activities (gardening,
chickens, pigs, etc.) at vocational centers with emphasis on
those that can fulfill community and extension needs.
4.69      Appropriate Technologist.  A specialist in the field of practical
application of small-scale technology would be recruited for a period of two
years by the Office of Business Development (OBD) of the Department of Commerce.
He would be oriented primarily towards developing both relevant domestic techno-
logies and those that could have small-scale commercial application. This
specialist would be essentially a practical multipurpose tradesman/craftsman
who could work alongside village people and groups to determine how appropriate
a particular technology may be. He would be required to assist with existing
activities and individuals throughout the province (e.g. vocational centers
and missions) and would also work closely with adult education officers.
4.70      Short-term consultancies (e.g. for such activities as bakeries,
shoe repair, etc.) would be required in various fields by the appropriate
technologist to provide expertise not available in the province. As various
technologies are identified that seem to have potential for improving the
quality of village life and/or increasing the income-earning opportunities
available to village people, the specialists would be recruited to work
directly with the interested local person or, as appropriate, with the
provincial extension work force. It was assured during negotiations that
prior to recruiting the appropriate technologist the Government would consult
IDA and give it time to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and
terms and conditions of employment of the persons proposed to fill the posts.



- 30 -
4.71      Workshop facilities already constructed in Mendi would be used as
a site for the design and manufacture of various devices such as stoves,
brick making presses and small hydraulic pumps. National assistants,
recruited from the ranks of technical school graduates or from the private
sector, would work with the specialist and carry on the program after he
leaves.
Provincial Project Management
4.72      In addition to the manpower inputs for AFTSEMU (para. 4.05, 4.08 and
4.13), smallholder coffee (para. 4.19), health (paras. 4.37 and 4.45), and
nonformal education (paras. 4.63, 4.69 and 4.70), the project would finance
additional technical and administrative assistance. This would consist of
the following, (a) the PPM, (b) the Provincial Project Financial Controller
(PPFC), and (c) stenotypist, clerk and accounting machinist to be attached to the
provincial management unit at Mendi. The cost of this provincial management
unit would be about $600,000 over about six years.
D. Project Cost
4.73      Total project costs are estimated at $32.2 million, of which
$15.5 million, or 48%, represents foreign exchange. Unit prices for equipment,
materials and supplies, salaries and civil works are based on recent quotations
received by the agencies responsible for implementing the various components.
All costs are indexed to a common level, April 1978, and this is the base
level for the project. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to the
base cost estimates in the noncommercial activities (otherwise physical
contingencies are incorporated in the base cost estimates). Costs due to
expected price increases over the implementation period amount to about 19%
of total base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming the following annual
inflation rates:
Annual inflation rate
1978        1979         1980-83
___ ____ ___  (x) ____________
Civil works and services            8           7.5            7
Vehicles and equipment              7           6.5            6



- 31 -
4.74      Details of cost estimates are summarized below:
% of
project
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total    cost
------- (K '000) -------         ------- ($  000) -------
AFTSEMU & media unit            824.2      647.5   1,471.7   1,129.2        887.0   2,016.2        8
Coffee                          897.7      897.8   1,795.5   1,229.8   1,230.0   2,459.8          10
Tea                           1,781.7   1,781.7   3,563.4   2,441.0   2,440.9   4,881.9           19
Cardamoms                        88.5       59.0      147.5      121.3       80.8      202.1       1
Silk                            200.9      133.9      334.8      275.2      183.5      458.7       2
Electrification                 270.0      160.0      430.0      369.9      219.2      589.1       2
Health                        1,082.6      721.7   1,804.3   1,483.2        988.7   2,471.9       10
Poroma to Koroba road        2,937.9   3,249.7   6,187.6   4,024.9   4,452.1   8,477.0            34
Culverts & small bridges        338.7      374.3      713.0      464.0      512.8      976.8       4
Formal education                571.6      381.0      952.6      783.1      522.0   1,305.1        5
Nonformal education             354.7      236.5      591.2      485.9      324.0      809.9       3
SHI4A building in Mendi          32.8       21.8       54.6       44.9       29.9       74.8       -
Provincial project
management                   213.8      225.7      439.5      292.9       309.2     602.1        2
Base cost estimate       9,595.1   8,890.6  18,485.7  13,145.3  12,180.1  25,325.4    100
Physical contingencies          662.7      601.8   1,264.5       907.9      824.5   1,732.4
Expected price increases   1,942.1   1,797.7   3,739.8   2,660.7   2,462.8   5,123.5
Total proiect cost    12,199.9  11,290.1  23,490.0  16,713.9  15,467.4  32,181.3



- 32 -
E. Financing
4.75       Costs would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
Beneficiaries        Government          I D A              Total
Amount      x     Amount       x     Amount      x      Amount      %
($'000)           ($'000)            ($'000)            ($'000)
AFTSEMU & media unit               -       -        729.9   36      1,286.3   64    2,016.2    100
Coffee
Council and group blocks   659.7    40               -     -      1,006.1   60    1,665.8    100
Smallholders' coffee         181.5   100             -     -           -      -       181.5    100
Coffee factory                134.2    48            -     -        147.7   52        281.9    100
Coffee supervisor                -      -         52.1   36          91.8   64        143.9    100
Coffee extension spec.           -      -         67.6   36         119.1   64        186.7    100
Tea
Tea blocks                 1,044.0    40             -     -      1,592.4   60    2,636.4    100
Smallholders' tea             29.6   100            -      -           -      -        29.6    100
Tea factory                  508.3    40             -     -        775.3   60    1,283.6    100
Tea roads                        -      -        307.5   36         541.9   64        849.4    100
Extension staff                 -       -         30.0   36          52.9   64         82.9    100
Cardamoms
Council blocks                64.5    36            -      -        113.6   64        178.1    100
Cardamom supervisor             -       -          8.7   36          15.3   64         24.0    100
Silk
Smallholders' mulberries        3.3   100           -      -           -      -         3.3    100
OBD                          164.9    36            -      -        290.5   64       455.4    100
Electrification                    -      -        213.3   36         375.8   64        589.1    100
Health                             -       -       894.8   36       1,577.1   64    2,471.9    100
Poroma to Koroba road              -      -      3,070.2   36       5,406.8   64    8,477.0    100
Culverts & small bridges           -      -        353.6   36         623.2   64       976.8    100
Formal education                141.8    11        330.6   25         832.7   64    1,305.1    100
Nonformal education                -      -        293.2   36         516.7   64       809.9    100
SHMA building in Mendi           74.8   100           -      -           -      -       74.8    100
Provincial project
management                       -      -        218.0   36         384.1   64       602.1    100
Base cost estimate       3,006.6    12       6,569.5   26    15,749.3   62   25,325.4    100
Physical contingencies         205.6    12         452.7   26       1,074.1   62    1,732.4    100
Expected price increases       608.2    12       1,338.7   26       3,176.6   62    5,123.5    100
Total project cost       3,820.4    12      8,360.9   26    20,000.0   62   32,181.3    100



- 33 -
The proposed IDA credit of $20.0 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project and $4.5 million of local costs, equivalent to
66% of project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties. Local cost financing is
justified on cr-intry grounds. For civil works, government services, studies,
field trials, extension and monitoring, costs would be shared by IDA (64%)
and by the Government (36%); however, contributions by the local people would
be encouraged for certain components of the project and would substitute for
government financing. Such components include school construction, where the
local people are expected to finance 17% of costs. Furthermore, IDA financing
of operating costs in the health subcenters and training complex, and in the
two secondary schools financed under the project, would decline from 64% to
50% in 1982, and 30% thereafter until project completion. On-farm costs of
individual smallholder development would be financed entirely by smallholders;
however, should they require financial aid, they could apply under the project
to the PNGDB or PNGBC. OBD would finance 36% and IDA 64% of the costs of the
silk development. In all other cases of commercial development, the benefi-
ciaries would make a substantial equity contribution of land and cash, and
either the PNGDB or the PNGBC would finance the balance with loan funds. IDA
would be prepared to finance up to 64% of the cost of such commercial develop-
ments provided no equity participation was thereby financed. In practice, IDA
financing is expected to be less than 64% because IDA would be restricted to
reimbursing subloans made by either the PNGDB or PNGBC, which in turn are
expected to finance about 60% of the cost of commercial ventures envisaged
under the project. These financing arrangements were assured during negotiations.
F. Procurement
4.76      Since all commercial ventures, including smallholder developments,
would be undertaken by independent private, public, or mixed public-private
enterprises, procurement would be decentralized and widely scattered throughout
the SHP. Consequently, international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines would not be generally feasible or appropriate. Parti-
cipating banks would, however, require, as a condition of making subloans,
that at least three bids be obtained from at least two countries for items of
machinery and equipment costing in excess of $100,000.
4.77      The Department of Works and Supply (DWS) procures all vehicles for
government agencies, maintains and repairs them, and leases them for a fee.
Construction of civil works, including roads, would be by force account but
using hired plant, where appropriate (para. 4.78). Force account using
hired plant is justified for road construction because it is an ongoing work
program that is being efficiently executed for DWS by an engineering unit of
the Australian army in a very remote part of the Highlands. Items to be
procured are: (a) vehicles (about 15 over about three years); (b) corrugated
metal culverts; (c) Bailey-type bridges, including steel piles and concrete
abutments; and (d) small steel girders and timber decked bridges for ten-ton
loading. Items (a), (b) and (c) are procured by the Government under
"Period Contracts." This type of contract is advertised locally for a service
or material to be supplied regularly over a period of one year, with options
for extension. Specifications are not written for one particular brand,



- 34 -
although if the product tendered is closest to that normally used (e.g. Bailey-
type components), this would be an advantage when tenders are being considered.
Nevertheless, contracts for supply of corrugated steel culverts have been won
by both Fuji Steel of Japan and Armco of Australia at various times, despite
the fact that sections are not interchangeable since one product uses a metric
size. The latter firm now has a rolling mill for smaller diameter culverts in
Lae and is currently the supplier to the Government. In the case of item (d),
a contract for the supply of short-span girder bridging to be fabricated to
DWS design would be advertised locally.
4.78      Plant Hire.  Tenders are advertised every year by the DWS for the
supply of hired plant. Contractors in every province who wish to hire their
plant and equipment tender details and the hourly rate for each item. The
hire rate quoted is inclusive of all maintenance, fuel and operating costs.
Each item of plant is awarded a priority number according to the hire rate
quoted and age of the machine. To encourage local (national) contractors, the
priority is also weighted against expatriates, or firms partly expatriate
owned, by applying a loading of 1% against each tendered hire rate for every
10% of expatriate shareholding. As plant is needed, contractors are given the
opportunity to supply their machine in order of priority.
4.79      Government regulations allow items up to K 50 to be obtained from
any supplier. For values between K 50 and K 500, three verbal quotations
must be obtained, and for between K 500 and K 2,500, three written quotations.
For any item costing over K 2,500, a contract for supply is advertised and the
Tenders Board may approve a maximum of K 80,000. For larger contracts, the
Minister for Works and Supply can approve up to K 200,000, but the NEC must
approve contracts for larger sums.
4.80      It was assured during negotiations that civil works, including road
construction and upgrading would be carried out by force account, but using
hired plant as appropriate; all other procurement would be in accordance with
local procedures that are acceptable to the Association.
G. Disbursements
4.81      Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit for subloans by PNGDB
or PNGBC for cardamoms, coffee and tea development would be at the rate of
100% for amounts disbursed on subloans, provided that the subloan amounts
would not exceed 64% of the total development costs of any project for which
a subloan is made. Disbursements for civil works, vehicles, materials,
salaries and consultant services would be at the rate of 64% of total costs,
except for the construction of the two secondary schools; in this latter
case, disbursement would be at the rate of either 64% of total costs or 100%
of government expenditure, whichever is less. Disbursements for operating
costs in the health subcenters and training complex and two secondary
schools, however, would decline from 64% to a rate of 50% in 1982, and 30%
thereafter until project completion. No disbursements would be made for tea
development until a financial plan for this component was prepared that was
acceptable to the IDA. Normal supporting documents would be submitted for



- 35 -
vehicles, materials and for civil works performed by contractors. Certifi-
cates of expenditure would be submitted for subloans, force account work and
for salaries and operating costs, with the supporting documeazatica retained
by the Borrower and made available for inspection by the Association's
supervision missions. Retroactive financing of $600,000 for roads and some
key project staff from January 1, 1978 is included in the credit amount.
During negotiations assurances on these disbursement procedures were obtained.
4.82      It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1984, approximately six months after the end of constructiong In consultation
with the IDA, savings under the project would be either cancelled or used to
finance similar additional works in the project area. An estimated phasing
of project cost and a quarterly disbursement schedule are given in Annex 3,
Tables 7 and 8.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Project Organization and Management Concept
5.01      The proposals for project management must be viewed against the
background of rationalization and decentralization of government processes
currently in progress (Chapter 3).
5.02      To achieve its objectives, the project would call for the close
coordination of project activities of the government (or development) agencies
in the SHP, namely, the Divisions of Provincial Affairs, Primary Industry,
Health, Education, and Commerce (OBD) within the Department of the Southern
Highlands of the Ministry of Decentralization; Public Services Commission
(Bureau of Management Services); and the DWS. It would also call for the
replacement of the SHDA by two new entities, the SHDC and the SHMA, as well as
the promotion of operating companies for tea plantations, tea factory and
coffee mill (all duly constituted in a form acceptable to IDA), and the
promotion of business groups under present legislation. The proposed project
management system is therefore designed to achieve full coordination between
all government departments or agencies responsible for project implementation
at field level, access to funds through a central project budget allocation,
and effective channels of communication between the field and headquarters.
5.03      The project management concept therefore has the following pattern:
(a)  Organization at Headquarters' Level.  The Headquarters Project
Manager (HQPM), an official of the Loans, Investments and Coordina-
tion Division of the Department of Finance, would be responsible for
project implementation in accordance with the terms of the legal
agreement between the Government and IDA and for overall direction
and coordination. A Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
(HQPCC) would be established. Its functions would be to cooperate
in establishing project operating policies and practices, problem



- 36 -
solving, and the resolution of differences between government
agencies. The members of the HQPCC would be the heads of Government
departments involved in the project. The Managing Director of the
PNGDB would be an ex officio, nonvoting member of this committee.
The HQPM would be a nonvoting member and secretary of this committee
and would be the principal contact with the heads of departments as
well as with the PPM.
(b) Organization at Provincial Level. The PPM, based at Mendi, would
be directly responsible to the HQPM for direction, control and
coordination of project field operations at provincial, district
and council levels. He would be supported by a PPFC. There would
be a PPCC with functions similar to those of the HQPCC but at the
provincial level. The members of the PPCC would be the provincial
heads of agencies involved in the project and located in the
province. The PPM would be a nonvoting member and secretary of the
PPCC; he would bear a functional relationship to the HQPCC and may
be co-opted to its meetings as and when necessary.
5.04      The appointment by the Department of Finance of a suitably qualified
and experienced HQPM and PPM acceptable to IDA, and on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness. It was also
assured during negotiations that by December 31, 1978 the Government would
recruit a PPFC whose qualifications and experience were acceptable to IDA, and
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
5.05      The manager of each government agency would be responsible for
supporting the designated full-time project officials of his agency in the
performance of the field program according to their respective specialized
project objectives. He would be accountable to his cognizant head of depart-
ment for his total performance, including the performance of project programs
within his jurisdiction.
5.06      The PPM, in cooperation with the respective provincial agency
managers, would determine what program is to be carried out in line with
project objectives and would define the way the work would be done. Once
agreement has been reached the program would be laid before the PPCC for
review and approval. The PPM and the agency manager would be jointly respon-
sible for ensuring that unresolved conflicts in programs assigned to government
agencies are laid before the PPCC for solution. In case of nonsettlement it
would be referred by the PPM through the HQPM to the HQPCC, and by the head of
the provincial agency to his head of department. In case of nonsettlement at
this level, then, by resolution of the HQPCC, the conflict would be referred
to the appropriate minister for a decision. As a last resort, the conflict
could be referred to the NEC (World Bank Chart No. 18395).
B. The Southern Highlands Management Authority
5.07      Except for smallholder developments, the SHMA would be responsible
for management of the tea, coffee and cardamom components of the project. One



- 37 -
main objective of the SHMA would be to provide management services to locally
formed proprietary companies c-wned by the councils or the SHDC. The proposed
management services of the SHMA would be financed by agreed fees levied on
users under formal management contracts. It would not hold investments in
its own right.  The establishment of the SHMA in a form acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. It was also assured during
negotiations that the Government would use its best efforts to ensure that
the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment
of the General Manager of the SHMA are satisfactory to IDA.
C. The Southern Highlands Development Corporation (Holdings) Pty. Ltd.
5.08      The SHDC would be an investment trust company holding equity invest-
ments of approved business enterprises on behalf of the provincial government.
Dividends declared on said investments would constitute a source of revenue to
the provincial government as the majority shareholder in almost all cases.
The amendment of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the SHDC in a
manner satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.
D. The Tea and Coffee Enterprises
5.09      The Companies Ordinance, 1963-66, contains the legal provisions
regarding the constitution, capital, management and administration, accounts
and audit, and winding up, etc., of proprietary companies. Division 4 of this
ordinance is the relevant section to be applied in the case of the SHDC and
the proprietary tea and coffee companies. The formation of project proprietary
companies would fall within the scope of the Division of Local Government
within the Department of the Southern Highlands (para. 3.09).
5.10      The council coffee blocks would be under the direct management of
the SHMA by contract. The group coffee blocks, established on land managed by
business groups formed by all or some of the members of the clan or subclan
that owns the land, would be managed by the business group. By means of a
technical service contract, overall planning and supervision of these clan
blocks would be provided by the SHMA. There would be no management contract
with the SHMA as for council blocks, unless specifically requested by the
owners.
5.11      Two existing proprietary companies (Ialibu Tea Lands Pty. Ltd. and
Mendi Tea Lands Pty. Ltd.) may be included in the proposed project, but their
memoranda and articles of association require revision for acceptability to
IDA. Three other tea companies of the same type are proposed for formation in
connection with the project. The main objects of the tea companies must be
stated in precise terms in the respective memoranda of association, and de-
tails of their internal management and administration must also be so stated
in their respective articles of association and, before incorporation, sub-
mitted for scrutiny to the PNG Registrar of Companies for verification of



- 38 -
compliance with the Companies Ordinance, 1963, and subsequent amendments. The
clauses that constitute the objects for the new company must explicitly cover
its principal activities. Related activities must also be included in the
memorandum of association since subsequent modifications tend to entail a
protracted legal process. The tea factory's business may be organized as a
corporate joint venture with the tea factory incorporated as a proprietary
company, if this is adjudged necessary at the time of formation. It was
assured during negotiations that, except for individual smallholders, IDA
funds would be onlent only to a subborrower that was constituted in a legal
form and had a management agreement, or technical service contract, with the
SHMA, acceptable to IDA.
E. Extension Services
5.12      Extension services for the smallholder tea, coffee and cardamom
development components of the project would be carried out by the Division of
Primary Industry of the Department of the Southern Highlands (para. 3.09).
Another two Rural Development Technicians (RDTs) for tea and one for coffee,
plus additional transport for the tea component, would be provided. The
AFTSEMU would be attached for administrative and logistic purposes to the DPI.
Its annual work programs would be submitted to and agreed by the PPCC, to
which the Team Leader (AFTSEMU) would be co-opted when required. Decisions
concerning reallocation of its project funds and selection of consultants
would be referred to the PPM for approval. Selection of counterpart trainees
would be made by DPI headquarters, Port Moresby, and of extension trainees by
the provincial heads of divisions of the various extension services operating
in the province.
F. Media Unit
5.13      The media unit would be run as a regular FCC of the Office of
Information, SHP, Government Liaison Division. Except for occasional national
information duties, however, its work program would be geared to serving the
needs of the project, as determined in collaboration with the PPM and approved
by the PPCC. The Media Unit Director would be an ex-officio member of the
latter committee.
G. Department of Works and Supply
5.14      The DWS would purchase, service, repair and lease, for a fee, to
Government agencies, all vehicles required by them under the project. The
DWS would be responsible for designing and supervising the construction of
the nursing school and training complex for the health component of the
project, and for building the two secondary schools. The DWS would also be
responsible for the design, construction and completion of roads and bridges
for the roads component. The installation of culverts and small bridges under
the culverting component would be the responsibility of the councils with
assistance provided by the DWS Local Government Engineering Section.



- 39 -
H. The National Housing Commission
5.15      The National Housing Commission (NHC) would design, build and rent
(to the Government) all project housing for AFTSEMU, the health training
complex, health centers and subcenters.
5.16      Project staff housing would be built on contract to essentially the
same standards as NHC specifications for houses in highland zones. However,
there is scope for improving the design of these houses (aesthetic and insula-
tional aspects) while making less use of imported materials (asbestos-cement
sheeting, steel stumps, etc.) and substituting local timber weatherboarding,
pressure-treated timber stumps, etc, which are available from private sawmills
or the Forestry Department. There is probably a good deal of inertial resistance
in the building industry to changing from "traditional" imported materials,
such as "fibro" cladding, which are fairly cheap and efficient, but above all
are readily available and laborsaving. However, preliminary costings worked
out in the National Planning Office and a selection of low-cost timber houses
constructed by NRC at Port Moresby with advice from the Department of Forestry
Research Unit have indicated that there is considerable room for substitution
of some imported building materials without increased cost (and with gains in
appearance and utility).
5.17      The Government has organized a Building Technology Working Group
(BTWG) at headquarters level (Port Moresby) that includes representatives of
the National Planning Office, DWS, NHC and Forestry Department, to look into
the cost and suitability of alternative designs and materials for use in
constructing houses. It was assured during negotiations that BTWG would
furnish a report to the Government and IDA by December 31, 1979 on the actual
cost and suitability of the houses constructed under the project, together
with its recommendations on the design and construction of houses in the
future.
I. The Executing Agencies
5.18      The agencies that would be involved in the execution of the project
and their main areas of responsibility are summarized below:
Agency                            Area of responsibility
1.  Department of Finance      Would direct and coordinate implementation of
the project through the HQPM and the PPM,
and project coordinating committees at head-
quarters and provincial level, in accordance
with the terms of the credit agreement between
the Government and IDA.



- 40 -
Agency                             Area of responsibility
2.  Department of Primary        It would work closely with AFTSEMU, especially
Industry                  on land use analysis and orthophoto mapping.
3.  Department of Health         It would be responsible for nurse training.
4.  Department of Commerce       It would be directly responsible for the recruit-
(Office of Business       ment of specialists for the silk component and
Development)              of the appropriate technologist.
5.  Public Services              It would be responsible for selection, recruit-
Commission (Bureau of    ment and administration of salaries of all project
Management Services)       staff, including travel, subsistence, supplies
and such.
6.  Department of Education    It would be responsible for the Agricultural
Lecturer at the Dauli Teachers College.
7. Department of the
Southern Highlands
(a) Division of Health      In-service training and operation and staffing
of the health subcenters and the data collection
and epidemiology unit.
(b) Division of Commerce   All aspects of the silk component except for
the recruitment of specialists.
(c) Division of Education  All aspects of the education component except
for the Agricultural Lecturer at the Dauli
Teachers College.
(d) Division of Primary    All project-related agricultural extension.
Industry
(e) Division of             It would provide general assistance to the
Provincial Affairs   councils, especially for the implementation of
the culverts and small bridges component.
(f) Division of Local       It would assist in the establishment of pro-
Government            prietary companies and would audit the
council accounts.



- 41 -
Agency                             Area of responsibility
8.  Department of Works and   The design and construction of the Poroma to
Supply                   Koroba road, tea roads, secondary schools, nursing
school and training complex. The DWS would buy
all vehicles for the project and then lease them
to the various government agencies involved. It
would supervise the culverting program.
9.  The Housing Commission    The design, building and renting to the govern-
ment of all housing for the health training
complex and health subcenters of the project.
10.  Local Government            The installation of culverts and small bridges;
Councils                 also involved in tea, coffee and cardamom compo-
nents of the project.
11.  Electricity Commission    Construction of 60 km of transmission line.
12.  Southern Highlands          Provision of management services to  'roject
Management Authority    enterprises in the areas of technical, production,
accounting, and company secretarial practices,
under contract for a fee.
13.  Southern Highlands         Holding company for equity investments in
Development              business enterprises, etc., on behalf of
Corporation (Holdings)  provincial government.  The SHDC would be the
Pty. Ltd.                major shareholder in tea companies and the
coffee mill.
14.  Papua New Guinea           Credit for agricultural development.
Development Bank
15.  Papua New Guinea           Credit for agricultural development.
Banking Corporation



- 42 -
J. Operation and Maintenance
5.19       Operation and maintenance, including staffing, would be the
responsibility of the government agency involved. For instance, the east
west road from Poroma to Koroba and the tea roads would be maintained by the
DWS. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that government would
make adequate arrangements for the timely provision of funds and resources
required to maintain all civil works constructed under the project, and to
staff, maintain and operate all other project-supported facilities.
K. Policies for Sublending
5.20       Under this project, the PNGDB and PNGBC would charge normal commercial
interest rates to subborrowers. These nominal rates at present are about 9%
p.a. and result in positive real interest rates of about 4%. Participating
banks would require a margin of 3% to cover operating costs, bad debts and
other risks. The Department of Finance rediscounts of subloans made by
participating banks would have the same maturities as the promissory notes
for loans to subborrowers under the project. Subloans to one enterprise that
in the aggregate exceed $45,000 would need the approval of IDA. These arrange-
ments were assured during negotiations.
L. Accounting and Auditing
5.21       The financial management cycle of the project in the SHP would be
controlled by the PPM assisted by the PPFC. In collaboration with the develop-
ment agencies and entities involved in the project, he would be responsible,
inter alia, for coordinating and forecasting of project work load, the financial
resources needed, the funding required through the PNGDB, the accounting and
recording of project financial transactions, the reporting of field results,
and review and analysis in the field. Overall financial management of the
project would rest with the HQPM.
5.22       Separate accounts would be kept by each entity and development
agency involved in the project, in conformity with generally accepted account-
ing principles and, where applicable, the Public Finances (Control and
Audit) Act 1973 of PNG, the Companies Ordinance, 1963-66, and the Business
Groups Incorporation Act, 1974. Reporting would take place at intervals
laid down by the Department of Finance.
5.23       The accounts and financial statements of agencies, companies and
other entities funded under the project would be audited annually by the
Auditor General (the Local Government Audit Section) or independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, as appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards acceptable to IDA. Copies of all audit reports and audited
financial statements would be sent to the HQPM and PPM, and copies of all
audited annual financial statements and accounts would be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.



- 43 -
5.24      Audited financial statements of business entities would consist
of a balance sheet, a statement of income and expenses, and a statement of
sources and applications of funds, together with the opinion of the auditor.
Audited financial statements of other agencies and entities wouic1 be in a
form appropriate to those agencies and entities and acceptable to IDA.
Supplementary data on operations, financial positions, the scope of work
carried out by the auditors, and such other additional information as IDA
might from time to time request, would also be provided. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that accounting and auditing would be in accordance
with the above procedures.
M. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.25      The Agricultural Economist, who would be recruited under AFTSEMU,
would be responsible for collecting information for project monitoring of all
components, including data on the progress of the cash cropping component.
This would be in addition to the quarterly report from each agency to the
HQPM on the physical and financial progress of each project component.  The
Pneumonia Research Unit at Tari in the SHP has been working since 1970 and
has established accurate baseline data on births, deaths, migratory patterns,
wealth, nutritional status, access to health care and such, and through project
support of this unit its continued existence would be ensured, thereby
providing a unique opportunity to evaluate the impact of the project as a
whole on these parameters (paras. 4.43-4.45). The Institute of Applied
Social and Economic Research in Port Moresby would have responsibility for
project evaluation, including preparation of the project completion report.
These arrangements were assured during negotiations.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Coffee
6.01      Yield Assumptions.  The estimated yield levels of clean green coffee
for new plantings on council blocks, clan blocks and smallholdings are shown
in the following table:
Council blocks   Clan blocks   Smallholdings
-__-_--------------- kg/ha -----------------
1st year in the field
2nd year
3rd year                       150              100             80
4th year                       600              500            300
5th year                     1,200            1,000            800
6th year                       800              600            400
7th year onwards             1,000              750            600



- 44 -
The projected yield estimates are based on the assumptions that 12-month old
seedlings of the recommended cultivar, Arusha, would be planted at a spacing
of 9 x 4-1/2 ft (2.75 x 1.38 m),l1 that the coffee trees would be grown under
shade, and that they would be pruned on the multiple stem system. On this
pruning system the trees normally produce a heavy third crop (in their fifth
year in the field) followed by a smaller fourth crop. Thereafter a biennial
bearing pattern is usually established with alternate "on" and "off" years of
heavy and light cropping. The yield figure shown for the seventh year onwards
is the estimated mean of the "on" and "off" years. In practice, the biennial
variation in yield in the SHP would be relatively small because of the
absence of seasonal droughts and because the coffee would be grown under
shade trees.
6.02      The yield estimates for council blocks are based on yields in the
Western Highlands Province on those estates where the coffee is grown under
shade, but without fertilizer applications and with a fairly low level of
management (although on many estates higher yields are obtained with shaded
coffee). Where coffee is grown without shade and is heavily fertilized,
average yields over 2,000 kg/ha are obtained on the better estates with peak
crops of up to 5,000 kg/ha of clean coffee. However, it is not recommended
that the coffee should be grown without shade on council blocks because a high
level of management would be required to control the grass weeds, maintain
soil fertility, prevent soil erosion and prevent dieback of the coffee. The
yield estimates for smallholder coffee are based on yields currently obtained
on smallholdings in the SHP. It is assumed that the level of management would
be lower on clan blocks than on council blocks and that yields would therefore
be intermediate between those of council blocks and smallholdings.
B. Tea
6.03      Yield Assumptions.  The estimated average yields of made tea in this
project for rehabilitated old seedling (nonclonal) tea and for new plantings
of clonal vegetatively propagated (VP) tea on blocks and on smallholdings are
as follows:
Blocks          Smallholdings
kg/ha               kg/ha
Old seedling tea                  1,400               1,000
Clonal (VP) plantings
1st year                           -                   -
2nd year                           -                   -
3rd year                         600                 400
4th year                       1,300                  800
5th year                        1,700               1,200
6th year onwards               2,000               1,400
/1 Equivalent to 2,635 trees per ha.



- 45 -
6.04      Climatic and soil conditions are particularly favorable in the tea
areas of PNG and Laycock (Director of Tea Research in Malawi, then Assam and
now Kenya) considered that yields could be obtained equal to or better than
those of the best areas of India and Sri Lanka. In 1972, he estimated that
under good management (pruning and fertilizer application) commercial yields
of over 4,000 kg/ha of made tea could be obtained and that only seedling tea
bushes yielding in excess of this figure should be selected as potential
clone mother trees. The mean yield of seedling tea on one estate near Mount
Hagen is now over 2,600 kg/ha in spite of the tea being neglected until
two years ago. Some smallholders near Mount Hagen obtain yields of about
2,000 kg/ha with seedling tea. On the Kuk Research Station, seedling tea in
one experiment on peat soil has given a mean annual yield of over 4,000 kg/ha
over the last five years. In the project area, soil and climatic conditions
are very similar (though rainfall is slightly higher) to the established tea
area around Mount Hagen in the neighboring Western Highlands Province. At
Apenda (site of one project block), a trial plot of seedling tea was planted
that produced a mean annual yield of over 1,500 kg/ha over the first four
years of plucking (including time out of production following pruning). At
Inambu (another block site), a large area of abandoned tea was weeded,
fertilized and pruned and has now produced over 1,100 kg/ha in six months
since plucking commenced (equivalent to over 2,200 kg/ha p.a.). In view of
these results, the assumed yields for old seedling tea of 1,400 kg/ha for
blocks and 1,000 kg/ha for smallholdings are sufficiently conservative to
allow for possible adverse factors such as poor management, inadequate
fertilization, poor weed control or lack of skill of the pluckers.
6.05      The assumption of higher yields at maturity (sixth year onwards)
for VP clonal plantings on blocks and on smallholdings is based on two
considerations:
(a)  the inherently higher yielding capacity of selected clones due to
their proven genetic superiority over unselected seedlings. In
progeny trials at the Kuk Research Station, the best four clones
gave average yields 43% above the yield of seedling tea; and
(b)  the fact that all new plantings would be at a close spacing of
1.22 x 0.61 m (4' x 2') whereas the old tea was planted at a wider
spacing of 1.52 x 0.76 m (5' x 2-1/2'). Trials at the Kuk Research
Station have shown that the closer spacing (which is now recommended)
gives higher yields (by about 10%) when the tea is mature and has
the advantage of establishing a complete soil cover in the early
years through its higher plant population (13,450 bushes/ha as
compared with 8,610 bushes/ha). By using close spacing an earlier
return is obtained on the capital investment.
6.06      The estimated yields for this project are higher than those estimated
in Bank appraisal reports for tea projects in Kenya (smallholder) and Indonesia
(estate rehabilitation and smallholder). In the Second Kenya Tea Project,
the reported yields achieved by the smallholders in Kirinyaga (1,639 kg/ha)
and Nyeri (1,342 kg/ha) were substantially higher than the appraisal estimates



- 46 -
of 1,000 kg/ha and 900 kg/ha respectively./I Climatic conditions in those
areas of Kenya, being colder and drier, are less favorable than those in the
project area in PNG. Also, the smallholder tea in Kenya was mostly planted
at the wide spacing of 1.52 x 0.76 m (5' x 2-1/2') whereas the smallholder
tea in the project would be planted at a closer spacing.
C. Cardamom
6.07      Yields of 250 kg/ha of dried pods at maturity (three years after
planting out splits or about four years from seed) and 125 kg/ha from
immature plants (two years after planting out splits or about three years from
seed) are expected from council blocks.
VII. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Coffee
7.01      PNG coffee exports in 1974/75 were about 36,000 tons.  At full
production in 1989, it is expected that the 1,280 ha of coffee planted under
this project would produce about 956 tons p.a. of clean green coffee, thus
boosting total coffee production in the SHP to about 1,706 tons p.a.
7.02      It is envisaged that the majority of smallholder coffee production
would be sold as parchment to private roadside buyers at about K 0.65 per kg.
Production from council blocks close to the factory (Kagua, Pangia and Ialibu)
would be bought directly by the factory. It may be necessary to build holding
stores in Tari and Mendi for production from these areas. Much of the clan
coffee would probably be sold in large lots to the council blocks and hence a
better price of K 0.72 per kg of parchment is expected. The SHMA would be
expected, as part of its management services, to pay close attention to
devising a marketing system for coffee in the SHP that is both efficient and
fair to producer and processor. The prices that producers are assumed to
receive under the project are consistent with Bank price forecasts for coffee
(New York spot $0.89 per pound, with prices expressed in constant 1978 dollars).
7.03      The coffee mill would process the coffee through to dry green bean
stage before sale to registered exporters.
7.04      The financial rates of return to the different participants in the
coffee component of this project would be as follows: (a) council blocks 13%;
(b) group blocks 14%; (c) smallholders 65%; and (d) the coffee mill 20%.
The return to smallholders when family labor is charged at K 0.77 per day is
22%. This is the wage at which some employment opportunities exist in the
SHP. It is expected that these rates would be sufficiently attractive to
participants to ensure the level of production envisaged.
L1 Project Completion Report. Second Kenya Tea Development Authority
Project.



- 47 -
B. Tea
7.05      PNG tea exports in 1975/76 were about 5,000 tons of made tea.
At full production in 1986, it is expected that the 850 ha of tea planted
under this project would produce about 1,670 tons of made tea, tLus boosting
made tea production in the SHP to about 1,886 tons p.a.
7.06      It is envisaged that the tea factory would buy green leaf directly
from the growers and transport it to the factory. The DPI would continue to
provide general supervision and assist in negotiating a suitable price
agreement for smallholder tea growers. Such agreements usually include an
initial payment plus a share of processing profit. The price that producers
are assumed to receive under the project of about K 0.14 per kg of green leaf
is consistent with Bank price forecasts for tea (London Auction price $0.82
per pound, with prices expressed in constant 1978 dollars).
7.07      The financial rates of return to the different participants in the
tea component of this project would be as follows: (a) tea blocks 13%; (b)
smallholders 62%; and (c) the tea factory 18%. The return to smallholders
when family labor is charged K 0.77 per day is 24%. This is the wage at
which some employment opportunities exist in the SHP. It is expected that
these rates of return would be sufficiently attractive to participants to
ensure the level of production envisaged.
C. Cardamom
7.08      At full production, it is expected that the 100 ha of cardamom
would produce 25 tons p.a. of dried pods. This would lead to a substantial
increase in PNG exports of cardamom which in 1975/76 were about 12 tons.
However, since the quantity of cardamoms entering the world market is between
3,000 and 4,000 tons p.a., the incremental project production is not expected
to appreciably affect prices.
7.09      The DPI arranges the collection and marketing of smallholder cardamom
and is expected to perform this function for project production. At present
most of the cardamom is bought by Cardamom Traders, Ltd., who grow cardamom in
the Northern Province and are the major exporters. Most of the crop is sold
to Fiji and Japan, but favorable reports have been received on samples of PNG
cardamoms sent to other markets.
7.10      The financial rate of return on the cardamom council blocks would be
about 18.7%.
D. Silk
7.11      OBD would be responsible for organizing silk marketing.
7.12      About 400 smallholders would benefit from mulberry production in the
SHP. The 0.1 ha of mulberry that each smallholder would plant would be suffi-
cient to feed four annual rearings of 20,000 silkworms. Each rearing of this
kind produces one case of wet cocoons weighing about 20 kg. Each smallholder's
incremental cash income would be about $254 per year from silkworms. In addi-
tion, OBD would be able to operate profitably from its involvement in the
project. The financial rate of return to OBD would be about 19.3%.



- 48 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Overview
8.01      The entire project is designed to help introduce the people of the
SHP to the cash economy and the modern world more generally. Many project
components were designed to help foster national integration and nation
building and thus lessen the risks of social disruptions. Change is desired
very strongly by the local population who realize that others in the country
are more "modern" and that from this modernity stems an improved standard of
living. Improved education, health services, nutrition and communication,
but, above all, opportunities to increase cash incomes are the wants most
frequently articulated. Helping to meet these wants is in line with the
Government's policies (para. 1.26).
B. Nutrition
8.02      As noted in Chapter 2, malnutrition (<80% of standard weight for age)
is prevalent in the SHP. There are numerous components designed explicitly
to improve nutrition. The emphasis on nutrition that appears throughout the
project is in keeping with the 1976 PNG National Development Strategy (Chapter 1).
8.03      Because of the unique situation of the SHP and its people, because
of a lack of immediately applicable improvements in agronomic practices, and
because of a lack of suitably trained extension staff, there are severe
limitations at present to what can be done to improve the subsistence economy
of about 90% of the population (210,000 people). The nutrition component of
the project is a necessary step toward overcoming these limitations. The
overriding concept of this component would be to lay the groundwork of knowledge,
training and communications for raising productivity of subsistence farmers
and improving nutrition. Whatever is learned would be fed directly into the
extension services and communicated through various media. Information gained
from field trials and data collection would assist an agronomist trainer in
conducting in-service training courses in subsistence food crop improvement
for extension workers. Material for village demonstration would be developed
by the trainer. And finally, a media center would provide logistical and
advisory support in communication techniques to all government extension
workers (agriculture, health staff, teachers) in the SHP.
8.04      The cash crops would bring many more people into the monetary
economy. Experience in other Highland areas (Eastern, Simbu) suggests that
newly earned money is often spent on luxuries and beer. It should be noted,
however, that people in Simbu are taller and heavier than 25 years ago, that
is, before the cash economy became so important in the area. Nutrition
studies in West New Britain and East Sepik demonstrated unusually high
malnutrition rates among children of plantation workers. Studies in the SHP
also showed that malnutrition occurred more frequently when adult males were
employed away from the family in the monetary economy. However, a more
intensive study in the SHP found that families of workers in the cash economy
who lived at home and continued to tend their gardens and participate in
local affairs (i.e. receive meat at pig kills) were nutritionally better off
than those wholly dependent on the subsistence economy or those who had to
live away from home to find work. These observations were given strong



- 49 -
consideration when this proposed project was designed. The sites for coffee,
tea and cardamom blocks have therefore been widely separated to enable
workers, as far as possible, to live at home and continue to tend their
gardens. Fur" 'rmore, employers under the project would be encouraged, to
the extent feasible, to recruit as many part-time workers as possible.
8.05      The coffee and tea blocks would generally be on land that is not
presently in the subsistence economy, because the land either is of poor
quality or is located at altitudes where frost frequently damages the sweet
potato crop.
8.06      Consideration has been given to providing investment (cash cropping)
and purchasing outlets for the cash that would be generated; this is to limit
the amount of cash used for the luxury items and drink that have consumed so
much of generated income in other provinces. In addition, adult educators and
health workers would encourage commercial market supply of food products (e.g.
red palm oil) that health workers and other are promoting via nutrition education.
8.07      Schools in the SHP are often used as community gathering points.
Parents often devote up to one full work day a week to construction and
maintenance of the school and to work in school gardens. Thus, there is the
opportunity to use the school garden as a demonstration plot for both parents
and school children. The garden would be used to demonstrate which crops are
of high nutritional value and how to maximize garden output. The school would
serve as a focal point for general extension including the distribution of
seeds and materials. The project would supply a gardening kit to each school
(paras. 4.61 and 4.68). These kits would include tools, seeds and information.
Within the school curriculum increased emphasis would be given to cooking
classes (preparation of nutritious foods) and nutrition education. The
agricultural lecturer at Dauli Teachers College would raise the consciousness
of primary school teachers in matters pertaining to agriculture, especially
its importance to a healthy population (para. 4.60).
8.08      The project puts a major emphasis on improvement of rural health
subcenters and upgrading the quality of rural health workers. There is
increasing evidence that early treatment of infectious diseases (especially
respiratory and gastrointestinal) decreases a child's weight loss and enhances
the child's chance of rapidly returning to preillness weight. Data from Tari
suggest that inaccessibility of health facilities may well increase the risk
of developing severe malnutrition.
8.09      In-service training programs and nurses' education would devote sig-
nificant time to the study and practical experience in preventing and treating
malnutrition. As the training facilities would be in Mendi, with field units
throughout the SHP, nutrition teaching material would always be relevant.
8.10      It is expected that a lowering of infant and child mortality will
lead to greater acceptance of family planning efforts, which in turn would
benefit the health of mothers and babies (better spacing). The major long-term
benefit of the direct and indirect nutrition components should be found in the
improved quality, vigor and productivity of the future work force. Reduction
in the rate of malnutrition and serious disease should result in better
mental and physical growth, and consequently a better educated and more able
adult population.



- 50 -
C. Quantified Benefits
8.11      Summary.  The economic rate of return is estimated to be 8% for the
Poroma to Koroba road, the cost of which is $8.4 million; 23% for the culver-
ting program, the cost of which is $1.0 million; 20% for coffee, the cost of
which is $2.5 million; 15% for tea, the cost of which is $4.9 million; and 31%
for cardamoms and silk, the cost of which is $0.7 million. The average economic
rate of return on these components, which account for 69% of project base cost,
is 13%. In the economic analysis it was assumed that the standard conversion
factor at 0.964 was not significantly different from unity for purposes of the
economic analysis in this project. The legal minimum rural wage rate at present
is about K 1.70 per day in the SHP. Different assumptions were made about the
shadow wage rate for unskilled labor depending on the degree to which wage
employment would interfere with the individual's ability to contribute to
subsistence food production. For instance, the shadow wage rate was estimated
at K 1.0 per day in tea production because some labor camps would need to be
established but at only K 0.40 per day for smallholder cash cropping (Annex 3,
Tables 3 to 6). The prices used for coffee and tea in the economic analysis
are consistent with Bank price forecasts (paras. 7.02 and 7.06).
8.12      East-West Road - Poroma to Koroba.  The proposal in the project is
to establish a link from Poroma to Koroba, with a road constructed to the
minimum standard for light vehicles and trucks over most of the route. With-
out this road, economic development of the greater part of the SHP would be
greatly restricted (IBRD Map No. 13267).
8.13      The justification for this minimum standard road is essentially
social and only secondarily economic. The construction of the road is
justified for the following reasons:
(a)  about 8% of PNG's population, or 235,000 people, live in
the SHP and the extension of the Lae-Mendi road through
the SHP to Koroba is a precondition for a concerted government
effort to meet the basic needs of the people of this province;
(b)  the SHP is among the poorest in PNG, with not only relatively
low per capita income, but also a relatively low literacy rate
and high incidence of infant mortality and malnutrition. A
basic road for light vehicles from Mendi to Koroba is needed
before these problems can be tackled;
(c)  the province is in a transitional phase from a neolithic culture
to a modern society, and allegiance to the concept of a nation
state is tenuous at best. Government regards an east-west road
through the province as necessary to help foster the growth of
allegiance to PNG as a nation;
(d)  the road would permit improved supervision of all government
service personnel, thereby improving the quantity and quality
of services delivered to the people;
(e)  even though the economic potential of the province seems limited,
there is some potential for agricultural development; and



- 51 -
(f) the economic rate of return is about 8% (Annex 3, Table 6).
8.14      Culverting Program.  The potential benefits from the Poroma-Koroba
road would be further enhanced by the installation of permanent culverts
under 900 km of feeder roads, many of which branch off from the -ain east-west
Mendi-Poroma road to Koroba. The program to install permanent culverts
would cost K 713,000, or K 800/km, at an estimated saving of 30% of the
present maintenance budget for these roads, or K 150/km. This is equivalent
to about a 23% rate of return on invested capital. Hence this program is
sound from an economic viewpoint.
8.15      Coffee.  The economic rate of return on the coffee component of
this project has been estimated at about 19.6% (Annex 3, Table 3). Should
the price of coffee be 20% lower than projected, then its economic rate of
return would be about 14%. The incomes of about 2,500 smallholders would be
raised by about $137 p.a. at full development from the 0.20 ha of coffee each
smallholder is expected to produce. About 1,800 owners of the group blocks
would increase their individual family incomes by about $90 p.a. It is
expected that the council and clan blocks would create about 700 man-years of
wage employment at full development, and the coffee mill about 58 man-years.
8.16      Tea.  The economic rate of return on the tea component of this
project has been estimated at about 15% (Annex 3, Table 4). Should the price
of tea be 20% lower than projected, then its economic rate of return would be
about 7%. The incomes of about 125 smallholders would be raised by about
$410 p.a. at full development from the 0.4 ha of tea each smallholder is
expected to produce. It is expected that the tea blocks would create about
645 man-years of wage employment at full development, and the tea factory
about 40 man-years.
8.17      Cardamoms and Silk.  The economic rate of return on the cardamom
and silk component of this project would be 31.4% (Annex 3, Table 5). About
400 smallholders would be the primary beneficiaries of the sericulture
component. At full development about 82 man-years of employment would be
created on the 100 ha of cardamoms. Most of this employment would probably
be met by part-time workers. The cash flow after debt service would be
available to the local government councils of Komo, Pimaga and Erave to help
meet the demands of the local people for improved services or further
commercial development. Some smallholders in the vicinity of the cardamom
blocks would probably start planting cardamoms and thus be better able to
satisfy the basic needs of their families.
8.18      Fiscal Implications.  The project would require about $0.9 million
annually of additional government expenditures to maintain and service the
project facilities. However, increased tax revenue would amount to about
$0.2 million p.a., and dividends to the provincial government and councils
may reach $0.7 million by 1990.
8.19      Education.  Each of the two new high schools would have total enroll-
ments of 230 and each would produce 38 Grade 10 graduates. This would mean
that 10.8% of 14-year olds in the SHP would be enrolled in Grade 7 by 1981,
and that 4.3% of 17-year olds would be Grade 10 graduates in 1984. Thus the
schools are needed just to maintain the present percentage of 17-year olds
graduating in the province. The schools would be small in line with government
policy (para. 1.24); they would have more day pupils, and as a consequence more
girls would attend.



- 52 -
D. Risks
8.20      Given the fact that the government programs to be assisted by the
project are under the management of capable and experienced agencies, and that
provision for recruitment of additional experienced staff has been budgeted
where warranted, the risk of not achieving the project objectives or rate of
return is believed to be no greater than can normally be expected with opera-
tions of this type. Due to the innovative nature of many of the project
components, it is expected that many difficulties would be encountered in the
course of project implementation. The tea component carries the highest risk
because it could be severely affected by a long period of depressed prices. The
other intangible is the effect the establishment of provincial government in the
SHP - and the associated devolution of power to all 19 provincial governments -
will have on the functioning of the public service and budgetary allocations
to poor provinces like the SHP. Funding for social services is only guaranteed
to the provinces by the central government at the levels prevailing in
1976/77, hence the importance of increasing the revenue sources of the SHP
Provincial Government.
8.21      Tea and coffee are the only cash crops that have the potential to
help large numbers of Southern Highlanders. The inclusion of the two crops
together in the project lessens somewhat the risk to the provincial economy
from fluctuating commodity prices.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  by December 31, 1981, AFTSEMU would submit to the PPCC and to IDA a
full written review of its work and knowledge gained up to that
time; this would include draft recommendations on policies and
future activities in the field of subsistence agriculture and
nutrition (para. 4.05);
(b) prior to filling the posts of Team Leader, Food Crops Agronomist,
Extension Training Officer, Cash Crop Agronomist, and Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer for AFTSEMU, it would consult IDA and give it
time to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and
terms and conditions of employment of the persons proposed to fill
these positions (para. 4.07);
(c)  prior to recruiting consultants under AFTSEIU, it would consult IDA
and give it time to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference,
and terms and conditions of employment of the consultants proposed
(para. 4.08);



- 53 -
(d)  it would provide for a suitably trained liaison officer and an
assistant liaison officer to be stationed at Mendi, and that prior
to recruiting a Media Unit Director, it would consult IDA and give
it t.te to comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and
terms and conditions of employment of the person proposed to fill
the post (para. 4.13);
(e)  prior to recruiting the Coffee Extension Specialist and the Coffee
and Cardamom Supervisor, it would consult IDA and give it time to
comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and
conditions of employment of the persons proposed (para. 4.23);
(f)  prior to recruiting a silkworm pathologist and a silk fiber tech-
nologist, it would consult IDA and give it time to comment on the
qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of
employment of the persons proposed (para. 4.33);
(g)  prior to recruiting the principal of the nurse training school,
the health training officer and the director of the Pneumonia
Research Unit at Tari, it would consult IDA and give it time to
comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and
conditions of employment of the persons proposed (paras. 4.37 and
4.45);
(h)  prior to recruiting the adult education coordinator and appro-
priate technologist, it would consult IDA and give it time to
comment on the qualifications, terms of reference, and terms and
conditions of employment of the persons proposed to fill the posts
(paras. 4.63 and 4.70);
(i)  it would agree to the cost sharing proposed in para. 4.75;
(j)  it would agree to the procurement procedures outlined in
paras. 4.76-4.80;
(k)  it would agree to the disbursement procedures outlined in
para. 4.81;
(1)  it would recruit by December 31, 1978 a PPFC whose qualifications
and experience were acceptable to IDA, and on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.04);
(m)  it would use its best efforts to ensure that the qualifications,
terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment of the
General Manager of the SHMA are satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.07).
(n)  excepting individual smallholders, it would onlend IDA funds only
to a subborrower that was constituted in a legal form and had a
management agreement, or technical service contract, with the SHMA,
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.11);



- 54 -
(o) it would cause BTWG to furnish a report on housing to the Government
and IDA by December 31, 1979 (para. 5.17);
(p) it would agree to the operation, maintenance and staffing mentioned
in para. 5.19;
(q) it would agree to the sublending terms and conditions detailed in
para. 5.20;
(r) it would agree to the accounting and auditing procedures laid down
in paras. 5.21-5.24; and
(s) it would monitor and evaluate the project (para. 5.25).
9.02      A condition of credit effectiveness would be employment by the Depart-
ment of Finance of a suitably qualified and experienced HQPM and PPM acceptable
to IDA and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 5.04).
9.03      It would also be a condition of credit effectiveness that the SHMA be
established in a form acceptable to IDA, and that the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the SHDC be amended in a manner satisfactory to IDA (paras. 5.07
and 5.08).
9.04      Subject to these assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
of $20.0 million.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area - The Southern HiRhlands Province
A. Geography
1.        Located almost in the center of PNG, the SHP forms part of the New
Guinea Highlands, which stretch for 2,500 km throughout the length of the
island. The greater part of the area lies between 1,500 and 4,000 m above sea
level (ASL) and consists of highland valleys separated by steep limestone
ridges, but to the southwest the elevation falls to approximately 800 m ASL
around Lake Kutubu. The peaks of Ialibu and Giluwe in the northeast rise to
3,465 m and 4,368 m ASL, respectively, and form part of the central cordillera
which divides waters of the Sepik River system in the north from those of the
Purari and Kikori River systems which drain through the province in a south-
easterly direction towards the Papuan Gulf. The Doma Peaks, a still-active
volcano, rise to a height of 3,566 m ASL and flank the Tari Gap, which lies on
the proposed route of the new road connecting the Tari area with the rest of
the province.
B. Climate
2.        At the lower elevations the climate is humid and tropical, but with
the lower temperatures at higher altitudes it is more akin to the moist,
maritime, temperate climates of higher latitudes.
3.        Throughout the area the climate is characterized by a lack of seasonal
contrast. Rainfall is high, the lowest mean annual amount being 2,450 mm (Tari)
and the highest 4,500 mm (Lake Kutubu). Rainfall is fairly evenly distributed
throughout the year and there is no marked dry season, although there is a
tendency for rainfall to be lighter during May/June. Except at the highest
elevations there is little variation in mean temperatures, with an annual
range of only 2 degrees C and a diurnal range of only about 10 degrees C.
Generally, areas below about 1,800 m ASL are frost-free, but above 2,500 m
frosts are common. In 1972, however, crops were severely damaged by frost as
low as 1,500 m ASL. Snow occasionally falls on the summit of Mount Giluwe.
C. Soils
4.        In general, the soils of the SHP are poor.  These are generally
derived from comparatively recent overlays from volcanic eruptions. No
detailed soil investigations have been made except in a few specific areas.
However, according to the broad survey of the region by the Commonwealth



56 _
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Scientific, Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO), the dominating factor
in soil formation appears to be the wet climate, as similar soils have formed
on diverse parent materials over large areas. Soil development is rapid and
even some steep slopes have deep soils.
5.        In general, the soils are strongly to slightly acid, low in avail-
able phosphate and have a high but unsaturated exchange capacity. The most
common soils in the cultivated valleys and slopes between 1,000 and 2,000 m ASL
are humic brown clays; however, significant variations in soil structure and
fertility are suspected between one valley and another, and even within
valleys, leading to complex patterns of family land settlement and tenure.
D. Vegetation
6.        Over most of the area the natural vegetation was originally three-,
two- or one-layered rain forest (depending on altitude), with alpine grasslands
occurring above about 3,500 m ASL and in frost pockets down to about 2,500 m ASL.
Peat swamps and bogs occur at all elevations.
7.        Forest still covers about 60% of the land area.  However, between
about 1,200 and 2,000 m ASL, most of the vegetation has been modified by man
and is maintained as either grasslands or gardens and forest regrowth. Most
of the valley floors are now sparsely timbered with a predominance of tall
pitpit grass (Saccharum edule sp.) rising to 3 m in height, intermingled with
kunai grass (Imperata spp.) and Ischaenum spp.
8.        The timber line between about 2,000 and 3,500 m ASL contains some
stands of beech (Nothofagus grandis sp.) and pine. However, few of these
are situated to allow commercial exploitation.
E. History of Contact with the Outside World
9.        The first contact is generally attributed to a major exploratory
Australian patrol in 1935, though there is a record of a patrol in 1922
contacting some people in the SHP. Little further contact occurred until
after World War II and it was only in the 1950s that an administrative
structure was established in the SHP. Entry restrictions were lifted and the
area was said to be "under control" in 1965. The postpacification period of
consolidation and development has thus lasted barely more than a decade.
F. The People and Their Life Style
10.       The people whom the early explorers and administrators met were
a population of dark-skinned, stocky warrior-farmers who lived not in villages
but in scattered garden hamlets. The countryside was in a continual state of
interlocking feuds, with alliances made and broken, and houses and gardens
regularly decimated.



_ 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
11.       They were a colorful people and remain so today.  Each area boasted
its own disti  tive ornamentation - the brilliant wigs of the Taris made of
human hair and yellow everlasting daisies, the bird of paradise plumes and
woven red helmets of the Ialibus, the cassowary plumes of the Mendis and
Nipas. People traditionally wear minimum clothing, the men a broad bark belt
supporting a netted bark fiber loincloth in front and a bunch of freshly-
picked "tanket" leaves (Cordyline fructosa) behind, while the women normally
wear a short grass skirt attached to a bark string belt. Houses are construc-
ted mainly of grass or pandanus leaves on a light timber frame and built close
to the ground (to conserve warmth); the normally smoky atmosphere inside
contributes to the prevalence of pneumonia and other respiratory diseases.
12.       The gardening system is based on the sweet potato or "kaukau"
cultivated in large heaped mounds of soil 3 m in diameter, 1 m high and 1-2 m
apart. Among these mounds are interplanted traditional supplementary crops
such as beans, edible pitpit, sugarcane, bananas and various species of leafy
greens. Less popular, except for market purposes, are the introduced crops,
tomatoes, lettuce, cabbage and potato.
13.       The soils are not particularly fertile and the altitude and asso-
ciated low temperatures tend to prolong maturity times for most crops.
The task of subsistence farming is more onerous and time consuming than is
generally thought. Clearing of new land for cultivation is done by men
but after that most of the work of planting, cultivating, harvesting and
preparing kaukau and other food crops is done by the women, assisted by
children. Pig rearing is also a woman's task. Much of the men's time is
spent hunting and foraging in the forest, looking after cash crops (if grown)
or in social activities.
14.       An important supplement to the diet is the seasonal harvest of
pandanus nuts or karukas. The pandanus palms occur only at high altitudes
and the harvesting areas are therefore at some distance from the people's
homes. Each family has traditional foraging rights to individual palms
and the harvesting party will camp out for days or weeks during the season.
The nuts are roasted or more commonly smoked over the house fires and can
then be stored for many months. It has been said that the favorite Southern
Highlands sport is the burgling of other peoples' pandanus palms and the
number of minor feuds and court cases during the karuka season would tend to
support this view.
15.       The population today numbers some 235,000 but comparison of this
population with the total provincial area of some 26,000 sq km can be mis-
leading. The people are congregated mainly in the 1,200-2,000 m ASL arable
valleys and basins. Constraints varying from malaria to the south, rugged
topography in the mountain ranges and inaccessibility on the southern and
northwestern provincial fringes significantly reduce the real area of gardening
land. Population densities in the Central Tari Basin reach 150 per sq km and
already there is evidence of spontaneous migration occurring from the Nembi
Valley to the Wagi Valley in the Nipa area (Map IBRD 13269).



_ 58 _
ANNEX 1
Page 4
16.       Land shortage, although a growing feature of the subsistence economy,
is not yet widely recognized as a problem. With a population growth rate
estimated at about 2.2% p.a., numbers will reach about 400,000 by the end of
this century. Thus, there is a great need to initiate research and to enable
sound planning to cope progressively with this developing situation.
G. Demography
17.       The ratio of males to females is only 0.95:1, in marked contrast to
the national average of 1.08:1. This is despite an apparently better life
expectancy for males and probably reflects the incidence of outmigration of
males seeking work, rather than the effects of past clan-fighting, in which
casualities were reportedly rather small relative to its frequency. The
proportion of the population in the 0-14 age group is high (45%) and is at
least as large as the active work force, which for practical purposes may be
taken as the 15-44 age group (42%).
H. Land Tenure
18.       The pattern of land tenure is generally the same throughout the SHP,
the basic feature being that inheritance is patrimonial. Although clan lands
have recognizable boundaries, within these boundaries the basis of land use
is individual ownership. According to a knowledgeable Southern Highlander,
some past attempts to interpret the land tenure system as group or communal
ownership have been very misleading.
I. The Provincial Economy
19.       The economic activities in 1971 of the SHP population over 10 years
of age are shown below:
Activity                 Males      Females         Total /a  (%)
 ----------   ('000)   --- -------
Mainly subsistence           49.2         65.0        114.3       (89.4)
& home duties
Mainly money raising           4.8         0.5          5.3        (4.1)
School & other                6.2          2.1          8.3        (6.5)
Total                   60.3         67.6        127.9     (100.0)
/a Excludes nonindigenous component which amounted to only 596 persons.



_ 59 _
ANNEX 1
Page 5
20.       Participation in cash cropping remains very limited aprl probably no
more than 5,000 farm families (total number of families 37,300) cre involved
in the growing of export crops or raising of livestock (1975 estimates given
below). These figures do not include those selling traditional food crops,
vegetables or animals at local markets.
Coffee                         2,976
Tea                               50
Chillies                         831
Cardamom                          20
Pyrethrum                         30
Silkworms                         30
Pigs                             182
Cattle                           800
Total                        4,919
21.       Cutting across the borderline of the distinction between subsistence
and cash activities, of course, lies that part of the agricultural population
who are already engaged in cash cropping or sales of surplus food crops or live-
stock through informal channels on local markets. The extent of local trading
in foodstuffs, live animals, salt, shells, personal ornaments and other items
is hard to determine but is certainly significant, particularly if barter trans-
actions and those required by social obligations are included, and such trade
antedates the arrival of Europeans; nevertheless its value relative to an
approximate valuation of subsistence production is probably still very small.
22.       The very limited extent to which the cash economy has yet advanced
in the province and the heavy dependence on imports and government transfers
are clearly shown in tentative estimates of the structure of provincial GDP
for 1975/76. These indicate that the subsistence sector accounts for about
57% of the total value of output in the province (compared with a national
figure of only 16%); and that of the monetary sector (43%) the Government was
responsible for about three fourths (32%) with only about one fourth represent-
ing the value added by expatriate and indigenous enterprises in the private
sector, such as trade stores, construction, sawmilling, and transport.
23.       The estimates for the value of subsistence output and self-rendered
services such as housing imply a per capita income for the 89% of people in
the "pure" subsistence sector of $91 p.a. The remaining 11%, consisting of
public servants, missionaries, a few other expatriates and cash crop farmers
and their families, have an average income of about $575 p.a., in 1976
terms. In reality this categorization is somewhat misleading, however, since
many Southern Highlanders would be earning incomes on a per capita basis in
between these two figures. According to Southern Highlands Development
Authority (SHDA) estimates, approximately $1.62 million per year, or 10% of
total central and local government expenditure, is paid to casual laborers,



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
e.g. for road and station maintenance and establishment of council coffee
blocks: at the current minimum wage of $2.33 per day, a casual laborer working
two days per week would earn an additional $233 per year, raising the per
capita income of his average family of 6.3 by about $37, or 40%, to $128 p.a.
24.       The heavy dependence of the province on central government financing,
both for development and for maintenance of existing social services, is
demonstrated by the fact that the Government accounts for 66% of all cash
expenditure in the province (about 65% of consumption and 70% of gross invest-
ment); nearly all of this government expenditure represents a straight
transfer into the province since the tax base is so small.
J. Literacy and Education
25.       According to the 1971 census, some 10,500 people or 8.1% of the
indigenous population over 10 years old were literate (national average 31%);
given the recent introduction of formal education, most of these would have
been in the 10-20 age group. There are six university graduates to-date from
the SHP. Some 6.4% of those aged over 10 years could speak English and
5.6% Pidgin; the rest would speak one or more of the indigenous languages or
dialects of which some 16 are found in the SHP. Nationally, 57% of 7-12 year
olds and about 14% of 13-17 year olds were enrolled in school, whereas in SHP
the respective figures are 44% and 6.5%. These are among the lowest rates in
the country. Only about 15% of high school students in the SHP are female
compared to a national figure of 29%.
26.      At present there are 109 primary schools, 4 secondary schools, 4
vocational centers, and 1 teachers college in the SHP. By 1983, it is
expected that the SHP will have 120 community schools, 7 high schools and 5
vocational centers. As in other underdeveloped Highlands provinces, a major
problem with the present education system is the lack of attention and resources
directed towards providing relevant development-oriented learning opportunities
for the 90% of the population not attending schools. In the SHP, as in the
rest of the country, less than 1% of the Education Department's budget goes
towards serving the needs of those not reached by formal education. A
substantial expansion of nonformal education is essential if economic
development in the SHP is to become a reality.
K. Health
27.       About 98% of the population of the SHP is rural.  The national life
expectancy at birth is about 51 years but only 48 years in the SHP. Child
mortality (up to 5 years) is about 203 in the SHP compared with 160 nationally.
Both of these figures put the SHP either last or next to last when compared to
other provinces.



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 7
28.       The annual health expenditure for SHP (1977) was $935,710, of which
43.6% was spenr in the Mendi Hospital to which few Southern Highlanders have
effective access.  The SHP, with an expenditure of $4.0, ranks last nationally
in per capita expenditure.
29.       There are 2 hospitals (1 provincial, 1 rural), 11 health centers,
18 health subcenters, and 106 aid posts. The hospital in Mendi has a total
of 170 beds (occupancy rate over 90%), while the health center at Tari has a
total bed capacity of 112. The total number of beds at the health centers is
395. Thus, within the SHP, the number of beds/population is 1:310 (seventeenth
nationally out of 19 provinces). The SHP also ranks seventeenth in regard to
primary health care with an aid post/population ratio of 1:2,060. The population
of SHP is very dispersed: over 53% live more than one hour's walk from the
nearest aid post or other health facility. Two areas, Kagua and Ialibu, are
particularly short of health subcenters.
30.       Malnutrition is a common finding in maternal child health (MCH) and
family clinics. Children are considered the most sensitive indicators of mal-
nutrition in the community, and much of the data focuses on this group. MCH
clinics now use the Harvard growth curve for children. They take the fiftieth
percentile of the age specific weight distribution as standard. Less than
80% of age standard is considered malnutrition, and less than 60%, severe
malnutrition. Over a third of the children in the SHP are less than 80% of
standard, and anywhere from 0.2-4.5% have weight for age under 60%. Data
from the Pneumonia Research Center at Tari dramatically demonstrates the
differential mortality rates of malnourished children. For example, children
less than 31 months of age, above the 80% line had a mortality rate of 5.1%,
those between the 60% and 80% line had a mortality rate of 11.3%, and those
below the 60% line had a mortality rate of 50%.
31.       Many reasons were given by nutritionists and field workers in SHP
for possible causes of malnutrition. Among the suspected causes were absolute
shortage of food, inappropriate feeding practices, family disruption, child
neglect, frequent infection, and poor access to health resources. Data
collected in the Tari area support the assumption that access to health
care improves nutrition.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Areas Selected for Subsistence Studies
General
1.        Areas provisionally selected for sample studies of agricultural
systems, land use and nutrition, as well as for partial land use mapping
(orthophoto), are shown in Table 1. Together they cover the three main
agro-ecological zones found in the Southern Highlands, which vary principally
according to altitude.
2.        The Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (MEO) and the two Food Crops
Agronomists of the proposed Agricultural Field Trials, Studies, Extension
and Monitoring Unit (AFTSEMU), would be principally and directly concerned
with the design and execution of studies and field trials in the selected
areas. However, in other ways also, these areas lend themselves to a concen-
tration of effort in both research and extension because of their representa-
tive nature; and they offer valuable opportunities for relating findings and
activities in different fields, e.g. in agriculture and health.
3.        In the Tari Basin, for example, a particular effort would be made to
correlate agricultural sample survey findings with those of the Tari Monitoring
Unit, which has obtained valuable data on health, nutritional and demographic
patterns among some 20,000 people over the last seven years. Only a corres-
pondingly systematic study on variations in land use and farming practices in
the Tari Basin, for example, is likely to offer reliable indications as to
whether malnutrition in the Highlands is principally related to the introduction
of cash crops, to population growth, to inherent inadequacies in the traditional
farming system, to lack of health facilities or nutritional education, or to
other causes.
4.        This particular question (the causes of malnutrition) attracts
widely differing views amongst officials and experts working in the Highlands
of PNG. That it should be answered on the basis of established facts is not
merely academically desirable but also necessary from the point of view of
determining what type of services will be needed to assist the development of
traditional subsistence agriculture, in face of the various pressures and
changes to which it is now exposed. This question is but one example of
those on which the work of AFTSEMU is expected to come up with answers and
practical recommendations during the project.
Areas and Population Affected by the Project
5.        The project has implications for all the 235,000 people living in
the SHP; however, in order to provide a realistic framework for operations,
selected areas within each of the three main agricultural and climatic
regions have been identified.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Table 1 summarizes those areas that represent the mcz: likely
areas of study. The ecological zones to which each area belongs, together
with total and likely sample populations included in each area, are shown.
Table 1: AREAS SELECTED FOR SPECIAL STUDY
Areas for
Average     Gross   land use   Sample
Approximate   density      area     mapping   popula-
Study area       Eco-zone  population   per sq km   (sq km)   (sq km)    tion
Upper Mendi /a      Montane      11,000        55          200      125      6,900
Tari Basin /b       Highlands   22,000         43 If       500      175      7,500
Peregai/Kaupena /c    "         15,000         27          550      100      2,700
Nembi Plateau /d                  8,000        33          230        50     1,700
Samberigi /e       Lowland        3,000         4          630       50        200
59,000                  2,110      500    19,000
/a Census District 31, part 32.
lb Census Districts 12, 13, 14, 15.
/c Census District 47.
Id Census District 26.
/e Census District 43.
/f But gross density averages 160 per sq km in Census District 15.
Source: Southern Highlands Village Directory, November 1976.
7.        Upper Mendi.  This area periodically experiences drought and frost
conditions which vary in severity. In 1972 the area was completely devastated
by a series of frosts and a prolonged drought, and the entire population
together with some 40,000 people living in similar areas of the province had
to be supported with rations for six months. Frost conditions are not restric-
ted to the SHP; other areas, mainly in Enga and the Western Highlands, are
also affected. The total cost of the relief program to the Papua New Guinea
Administration during the 1972 frost was approximately $3.5 million. Given
the fact that severe frosts can cause famine conditions (and even minor
annual frosts, local hardship), a program designed to develop a more frost
and drought tolerant agricultural system appears to be fully justified. Such
a program would not only be of relevance to people living within the frost-
affected areas of the SHP, but also to the estimated 20% of the population at
risk in other Highlands provinces.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The Tari Basin.  This is an area of extremely high population
density (up to 160 persons/sq km in the Central Basin) which from all appear-
ances is reasonably well supported by the present agricultural system. The
area is likely to experience land pressure problems as cash crop and livestock
activities are introduced to the area, mainly as a result of the major road
development linking the Tari Basin with Mendi, Mount Hagen and the coast
(Highlands Highway). In view of the social and economic changes that will
accompany these developments in an area which, although satisfactorily coping
with population increases so far, is likely to approach the limit of its
carrying capacity, the research and action programs will be very important.
The situation which is developing in the Tari Basin is seen as the forerunner
of developments in other areas within the SHP with high population densities
and limited arable land: the Mendi Valley, the Ialibu and Nipa Basins and
the Koroba census division. Selection of the region is further enhanced by
the fact that for the past seven years accurate demographic and socioeconomic
data have been compiled for the Tari Basin and would be available for use in
the subsistence research and monitoring program.
9.        Peregai/Kaupena.  This area reflects rapid social change and economic
development. It is located in a major coffee and tea growing area with easy
access to the Highlands Highway and Mount Hagen. A large timber mill (Beechwood)
is currently operating at Kaupena and the area is the site of the proposed tea
and coffee factories. The people living in this region have experienced more
social and economic change than most other areas in the province. For this
reason, selection of Peregai/Kaupena as the site for field trials and research
would provide a good contrast to the Tari Basin. The major area of study in
this region would be an analysis of the impact of cash crop and commercial
livestock activities on the subsistence sector.
10.       The Nembi Plateau.  Current nutrition statistics reveal that the
Nembi Plateau has one of the highest incidences of malnutrition amongst the
0-5 year age group in the province (47%). The area has little potential for
economic development because of terrain and, therefore, it is likely that
people will have to rely on their traditional forms of subsistence agriculture
for their livelihood. However, since the rate of malnutrition is so high it
is possible that the present agricultural system is already not meeting basic
nutritional requirements. A survey program in this area would aim at estab-
lishing the causes of the high rate of malnutrition, whether they be agricul-
tural or sociocultural, or both. The recommendations stemming from work in
the Nembi Plateau are seen as providing guidelines for an adaptive research
and action-oriented extension program for other areas in the province with
similar problems.
11.       Samberigi.  This area has been chosen because it represents one of
the three lowland regions within the Southern Highlands that is likely to
experience pressure for resettlement purposes. If the developments in the
Chimbu Province are any guide, those lowland areas which show any potential



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
for resettlement will, in the next 10-20 years, come under considerable
pressure for 'Aevelopment" from the more densely populated highland areas
(Simpson 1975). While relatively little work has been done in this country
with regard to the capacity of lowland areas to absorb large numbers of
people, research carried out by Nye and Greenland (1960) and Nelson (1973)
seriously questions the ability of these regions to cope with a large influx
of people. Clarke of the University of Papua New Guinea (UPNG) has suggested
that the present low population densities within these areas may in fact
reflect the lack of potential for large-scale settlement. He has indicated,
however, that while these systems may prove to be unstable in the face of
high population densities, they may have considerable potential for developing
new sources of food supply through the exploitation of the great variety of
plant and forest types. Given that Samberigi, especially the plateau area
around Mount Murray, has already been discussed as a possible site for spon-
sored resettlement and that spontaneous settlement will probably occur anyway
as population pressure increases, a study program that looks at the carrying
capacity of this region could head off significant ecological and social
problems. Of all the ecological zones, the lowland has the most potential for
developing commercialized food supplies if population densities are kept at a
reasonable level. A research program incorporating this aspect is seen as
moving into an area vital to the future of the country: establishing and
maintaining self-reliance in food production.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Major Commodities, FY73-77
FY73      FY74      FY75      FY76 /a   FY77 /b
Copper (ore and concentrates)
Volume ('000 tons)                  495.1      729.3    623.5    630.1          -
Price (K/ton)                       325.4      433.6    321.3    325.3          -
Value (millions of K)               161.1 /c  316.2    200.3    205.0        230.5
Copra
Volume ('000 tons)                   79.9       76.1      99.7     96.9       80.0
Price (K/ton)                       107.6      311.4    294.9    124-9       196.3
Value (millions of K)                 8.6       23.7     29.4      12.1       15.7
Copra oil
Volume ('000 tons)                   27.7       26.8      25.2     28.0       25.0
Price (K/ton)                       202.2      514.9    547.6    264.3       364-0
Value (millions of K)                 5.6       13.8      13.8       7.4       9.1
Cocoa
Volume ('000 tons)                   22.0       28.8      35.3     30.5       34.0
Price (K/ton)                       509.0      812.0  1,108.0    937.7   1,264.7
Value (millions of K)                11.2       23.4     39.1      28.6       43.0
Coffee
Volume ('000 tons)                   31.1       32.7      36.8     36.0       44.4
Price (K/ton)                       749.0      881.0    910.0  1,175.0   2,389.6
Value (millions of K)                23.3       28.8      33.5     42.3      106.1
Timber and timber products
Volume ('000 cu m)                  468.2      703.7    424.8         -         -
Price (K/cu m)                       22.9       28.8      30.4       -          -
Value (millions of K)                10.7       20.3      12.9     14.6       25.0
Others                                 15.5       33.9      46.5      48.9       65.7
Total exports of domestic
product (millions of K)             236 0      460.1    375.5    358.9       495.1
/a  Preliminary
/b  Projection
/c  Includes K 35.5 million of copper exports unrecorded in published trade
statistics.
Source: Bank of Papua New Guinea, November 1976.



ANNEX 3
67 -                                  Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Export Crops - Participation of
Papua New Guineans and Expatriates, 1972/73
Average size
of holdings
Crop area   Percentage    Production   Percentage    in 1971/72
('000 ha)   composition      ('000 MT)   composition          (ha)
Coconuts
Papua New Guineans       139.9          56.4            51.9          40.1             1.3
Expatriates              108.3          43.6            77.4          59.9          163.3
Total                    248.2         100.0           129.3         100.0
Cocoa
Papua New Guineans        22.9          28.9             6.8          30.5            0.6
Expatriates               56.7          71.1            15.5          59.5          129.5
Total                     79.6         100.0            22.3         100.0
Coffee
Papua New Guineans        22.9          76.6            25.0          71.8            0.1
Expatriates                7.0          23.4             9.8          28.2           28.0
Total                     29.9         100.0             5.8         100.0
Rubber
Papua New Guineans         3.6          21.8             0.2           3.5             1.4
Expatriates               12.9          78.2             5.6          96.5          185.6
Total                     16.5         100.0             5.8         100.0
Tea
Papua New Guineans         0.4          10.8             0.7          19.5            0.5
Expatriates                3.3          89.2             2.9          80.5          135.7
Total                      3.7         100.0             3.6         100.0
Oil Palm
Papua New Guineans         4.9          64.5            22.0 /a       60.8            3.2
Expatriates /b             2.7          35.5            14.8 /a       39.2          132.8
Total                      7.6         100.0            36.8         100.0
/a Estimate
/b Expatriate companies are involved in equal partnership with PNG in nucleus
estate/factory operations.
Sources: Acreage and production in 1972/73, DPI unpublished data, average
size of holdings in 1971/72, PNG Bureau of Statistics and Rural
Industries, 1971/72.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations on the Coffee Component
(K'000)
Y E A R S
1       2        3         4          5         6          7         8          9          10       11         12      13-25
Incremental financial costs
Council blocks (300 ha)                  -   187.6      161.6      143.9     138.2      114.6     101.4      108.6     184.1      193.5      193.5     193.5      193.5
Group blocks    (450 ha)              46.8     42.0     117.4      180.8     136.2      114.6     117.7      133.8     138.8      174.3      205.8     210.1      210.1
Smallholdings   (530 ha)              17.5     18.8      27.0       32.8      42.0        5.1      18.7       20.5      26.5       29.7       34.5       9.7        9.7
Coffee mill                          175.3     80.2      99.7      115.3     119.9      145.7     173.0      195.7     210.3      218.3      213.1     217.1      217.1
Coffee Supervisor                     18.0     18.0       18.0      18.0       18.0         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Supervisor's house                    15.0        -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Coffee Extension
Specialist                             -     23.0      20.0      20.0       20.0          -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -
Four-wheel pickup                     10.2     14.9       9.4        9.4        9.4         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Coffee mill purchase of
parchment coffee                  171.6   461.8    673.9        762.1      838.5  1,061.6  1,245.7  1,581.1  1,710.5  1,772.9   1,730.8  1,774.5   1,774.5
Subtotal                      454.4   846.3  1,127.0  1,282.3  1,322.2  1,441.6  1,656.5  2,039.7  2,270.2  2,388.7  2,377.7  2,404.9  2,404.9
Adjustments to financial costs
Taxes and duties                     (7.2)   (10.9)    (12.9)    (14.9)    (13.8)    (11.4)    (12.3)    (13.8)    (16.8)    (18.5)    (19.4)    (18.9)    (18.9)
Labor
Council blocks /a                     -        -         -          -         -          -         -          -     (80.8)    (86.2)    (86.2)    (86.2)    (86.2)
Group blocks /a                       -        -         -          -         -          -         -      (19.1)    (20.8)    (59.0)    (91.1)    (93.6)    (93.6)
Smallholders /b                   22.4      26.8      39.3      50.4       69.2      27.6       32.4      37.5       42.6       38.7      41.9       41.9      41.9
Coffee mill /c                    (1.3)    (2.5)      (2.7)     (2.9)      (3.1)     (4.0)      (4.6)      (5.2)     (5.6)      (5.9)      (5.7)     (5.8)      (5.8)
Subtotal                       13.9     13.4      23.7       32.6      52.3       12.2      15.5       (0.6)    (81.4)   (130.9)   (160.5)   (162.6)   (162.6)
Incremental economic costs           468.3   859.7  1,150.7  1,314.9  1,374.5  1,453.8  1,672.0  2,039.1  2,188.8  2,257.8  2,217.2  2,242.3  2,242.3
Incremental economic benefits
Council blocks                          -        -          -         -      23.0      113.0     170.0      300.0     270.0      300.0     300.0      300.0      300.0
Group blocks                                                -       4.8      28.8       81.6     142.1      253.4     335.0      317.8      314.0     324.0      324.0
Smallholdings                           -        -         -        5.2      23.4       75.4     112.7      178.5     239.2      280.8     248.7      275.6      275.6
Coffee mill                        179.6   506.8       768.8     889.3      981.5  1,225.1  1,447.7  1,824.1  2,006.1  2,088.5  2,052.9  2,092.2  2,098.4
Subtotal                      179.6   506.8      768.8      899.3  1,056.7  1,495.1   1,872.5  2,556.0  2,850.3  2,987.1  2,915.6  2,991.8  2,998.0
Economic benefits minus costs    (288.7) (352.9)   (381.9)   (41.6   (317.8)              41.3     200.5      516.9     661.5      729.3      698.4      749.5     755.7
Economic Rate of Return = 19.6%
/a  Shadow wage rate assumed to be K 0.77/day.  The minimum rural wage would probably be about K 1.80/day by then.
/b  The marginal value product in subsistence agriculture is estimated at K 0.40/day, which is lower than if the person accepts wage labor.                                 u z
/c  Cash wage would be about K 2.40/day.  The shadow wage rate is assumed to be K 2.00/day.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations on the Tea Component
(K'000)
py                                               YEARS
1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9      10-25
Incremental Financial Costs
Block tea areas                             385.6    467.6    568.1    470.9        393.2    428.6    527.2    620.0    664.1    664.1
Smailholdings                                   -       8.9      10.8       4.1       5.3       5.9        5.7       5.7       5.7       5.7
Tea factory                                     -         -         -    822.5    842.9  1,312.3  1,797.7  1,912.4  1,996.4  1,996.4
Tea roads construction costs /a             185.4    265.5    107.1           -         -          -         -         -         -         -
Incremental road maintenance /b                 -         -         -      20.3      25.0      30.0      38.0       40.0      40.6      40.6
Extension staff /c                            3.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0          -         -         -         -         -
Transport for extension staff                 8.0      10.5       5.0       5.0       5.0          -         -         -         -         -
Subtotal                          582.0    758.5    697.0  1,328.8  1,277.4  1,776.8  2,368.6  2,578.1  2,706.8  2,706.8
Adjustments to Financial Costs
Taxes and duties Id                         (17.5)    (22.8)    (20.9)    (40.0)    (24.8)    (30.1)    (39.8)    (41.8)    (43.9)    (43.9)
Labor
Tea blocks /e                                           -         -         -         -         -         -   (132.7)   (139.3)  (139.3)
Smallholders /f                               -      10.1      11.2       2.6       3.0       3.6       5.2       5.7       5.3        5.3
Tea factory /g                                -         -         -      (2.2)     (2.7)     (3.2)     (3.8)     (4.3)      (4.3)     (4.3)
Tea roads lb                               (9.3)    (13.3)     (5.4)     (0.5)     (0.6)    (0.8)      (1.0)    (1.0)       (1.0)     (1.0)
Subtotal                           (26.8)    (26.0)    (15.1)    (40.1)    (25.1)    (30.5)    (39.4)  (174.1)  (183.2)   (183.2)
Incremental Economic Costs                    555.2    732.5    681.9  1,288.7  1,252.3  1,746.3  2,329.2  2,404.0  2,523.6  2,523.6
Incremental Economic Benefits
Block tea areas                                 -         -         -      68.4    292.6    605.2    864.5  1,004.2  1,064.0  1,064.0
Smallholdings                                   -         -         -       5.2      17.6      30.9      40.2      43.3      43.3      43.3
Tea factory                                     -         -         -         -    728.5  1,344.8  1,841.3  2,125.6  2,250.7  2,263.0
Subtotal                               -      _            -      73.6  1,038.7  1,980.9  2,746.0  3,173.1  3,358.0  3,370.3
Incremental Economic Benefits
Minus Costs                                (555.2)   (732.5)   (681.9)(1,215.1)   (213.6)   234.6    416.8    769.1    834.4    846.7
Economic Rate of Return = 14.5%
/a Since these tea roads would also serve other uses, only 90% of the construction costs are charged to tea.
/b Incremental road maintenance on the 40.5 km of road improved under this project would be K 500/km at full development for
a total cost of K 20,250. A similar increase in maintenance costs would result from the use of other roads to transport
tea.
/c Two additional RDTs would be recruited by DPI to help smallholders.
/d Estimated at 3% of incramental cash costs, excluding the cost of green leaf to the factory.
/e  Since labor camps would need to be established on the tea blocks for about half the labor force, the opportunity cost of
this labor would be about K 1.0/day, the highest shadow wage for unskilled labor charged to any component of this project,
because such labor would not continue to produce subsistence crops in their home gardens.
If The marginal value product of labor in subsistence agriculture is estimated at K 0.40/day, which is lower than if a
person accepts wage labor.
/g Cash wage, as in coffee factory, would be about K 2.40/day. The shadow wage rate of these skilled laborers is assumed to
be K 2.00/day.
/h Assuming that the shadow wage rate is 50% of the cash wage, or K 0.90/day, and that labor accounts for 10% of the cash
construction costs, and about 5% of the maintenance costs. Most of this labor would be casual labor.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations for Cardomom and Silk Components
(K '000)
1         2        3      4       5       6       7       8     9-16
Cardamom financial costs
Erave block (50 ha)                        29.4      25.2    10.4   13.2   20.8   13.8   13.8   24.4   24.4
Pimaga and Komo blocks (50 ha) /a             -      29.4    25.2   10.4   13.2   20.8   13.8   13.8   24.4
Cardamom supervisor /b                      3.0       3.0      3.0    3.0    3.0         -       -       -       -
Supervisor's house /b                       2.5          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Subtotal                                 34.9      57.6    38.6   26.6   37.0   34.6   27.6   38.2   48.8
Silk financial costs
Smallholders (40 ha of mulberry)            5.1      10.2    15.4   20.5   25.6   25.6   25.6   25.6   25.6
OBD costs                                 173.6    158.8   134.4  147.8  161.3  119.3  119.3  119.3  119.3
Subtotal                                178.7    169.0   149.8  168.3  186.9  144.9  144.9  144.9  144.9
Total incremental financial costs         213.6    226.6   188.4  194.9  223.9  179.5  172.5  183.1  193.7
Adjustments to financial costs
Taxes (3%)                                 (6.4)      (6.8)   (5.7)  (5.9)  (6.7)  (5.4)  (5.2)  (5.5)  (5.8)
Labor on cardamoms                            -          -       -       -       -       -       -  (10.6) (21.1)
Smallholder labor used in silk /c           5.4      10.8    16.1   21.5   26.9   26.9   26.9   26.9   26.9
Subtotal                                 (1.0)      4.0    10.4   15.6   20.2   21.5   21.7   10.8            -
Economic costs                              212.6    230.6   198.8  210.5  244.1  201.0  194.2  193.9  193.7
Economic benefits
Sales of cardamom                             -         -      4.3   21.3   51.0   76.5   85.0   85.0   85.0
Sales of silk by smallholders              20.0      39.9    59.9   79.9   99.8   99.8   99.8   99.8   99.8
Sales by OBD                               27.5      55.0   148.6  176.1  203.6  203.6  203.6  203.6  203.6
Subtotal                                 47.5      94.9   212.8  277.3  354.4  379.9  388.4  388.4  388.4
Economic benefits minus costs              (165.1)   (135.7)   14.0   66.8  110.3  178.9  194.2  194.5  194.7
Economic rate of return = 31.4%
/a Pimaga and Komo each have 25 ha.
/b The supervisor would be a DPI employee and would be shared with the coffee component.
/c Labor is shadow priced at K 0.77/day, the self-help wage in the SHP.



ANNEX 3
- 71 -                                                         Table 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Poroma to Koroba Road
(K'000)
Incremental  Total                                          Total    Passenger   Freight          Savings         Net
Project  Constrtuction  maintenance  cash   Australian             Adjustments       economic  air fare    to Tari            on          economic
Year        costs           costs      costs       aid La   Taxes /b  Wages /c   costs    savings Id  (tons) /e   freight /f  benefits
1           880               -         880    225           97         44           964          -             _            -            (964)
2         1,320              65       1,385     225         152         68         1,390           -            -            -          (1,390)
3         1,430             100       1,530     225         168         75         1,512          -             -            -          (1,512)
4         1,430             303       1,733     225         191         80         1,687          45        1,742          401          (1,241)
S         1,430             303       1,733     225         191         80         1,687          47        1,916          441          (1,199)
6           316             408          724     100         80         26           718          48        2,108          485            (185)
7             -             408         408        -         45          11          352          49        2,319          533             230
8             -             408         408        -         45          11          352          51        2,551          587             286
9             -             408         408        -         45          11          352          52        2,806          645             345
10             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          54        3,002          690             392
11             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          56        3,213          739             443
12             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          57        3,438          791             496
13             -             408         408        -         45          11          352          59        3,678          846             553
14             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          61        3,936          905             614
15             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          63        4,211          969             680
16             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          65        4,506        1,036             749
17             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          66        4,821        1,109             823
18             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          68        5,159        1,187             903
19             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          70        5,520        1,270             988
20              -            408          408       -         45          11          352          73        5,906        1,358           1,079
21             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          75        6,320        1,454           1,177
22             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          77        6,762        1,555           1,280
23             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          79        7,235        1,664           1,391
24             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          82        7,742        1,781           1,511
25             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          84        8,284        1,905           1,637
26             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          87        8,864        2,039           1,774
27             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          89        9,484        2,181           1,918
28             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          92       10,148        2,334           2,074
29             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          95       10,859        2,498           2,241
30             -             408          408       -         45          11          352          98       11,619        2,672           2,418
Economic Rate of Return = 8.1%
/a  The DWS in the SHP is composed of an engineering unit from the Australian Army.
/b  Taxes are estimated at 11% of cash costs by considering import duties and the like, and the investment mix.
Ic  Assuming that the shadow wage rate is 50% of the cash wage, and that casual labor accounts for about 10% of the cash
construction costs, and about 5% of the maintenance costs.
/d  About 4,000 passengers use the air service at present.  It is assumed that about two thirds would switch to road transport
in 1981, when the Mendi-Tari road would be open. Furthermore, a 3% annual growth in passengers is assumed, the same as
without the road. Savings per passenger are estimated at K 15. At present single ticket Mendi to Tari is K 25.60 (cable
from Ministry of Finance dated November 30, 1977).
/e  In 1975, about 1,300 tons of freight went by charter plane between Mendi and Tari.  In line with the historical growth
rate, a 5% p.a. growth rate is assumed to 1981 when the road to Tari would be completed; a 10% p.a. growth rate is assumed
for the following 5 years due to extension of the road to Koroba and the general opening up of the Tari Basin; thereafter
a 7% growth rate is assumed with much of the increase induced by lower prices for goods and higher coffee incomes arising
from the project's coffee component. This freight assumed to switch from air charter to road transport when improved
road is built.  (Should the growth rate for freight be 12% p.a. for the first five years after the road is opened up, and
8% p.a. thereafter, then the economic rate of return would be 9.7%.)
If Cost by air estimated at K 260 per ton and cost by road estimated at K 30 per ton from Mendi to Tari (cable from Ministry of
Finance dated November 30, 1977).



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Project Costs
(K '000)
Y E A R S
1         2         3         4         5         6        Total
AFTSEMU and media unit               -     282.5    363.9    285.9    270.4         269.0   1,471.7
Coffee                           274.7    338.9    356.7    398.6    312.6          114.0   1,795.5
Tea                              602.6    788.0    708.9  1,237.9    226.0             -    3,563.4
Cardamom                            -       29.4      54.6       35.6      10.4        -       130.0
Cardamom supervisor                  -        5.5       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       17.5
Silk - smallholders' costs          -        0.4       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5        2.4
OBD costs                            -     173.6    158.8          -         -         -       332.4
Electrification                     -      115.0    250.0       65.0         -         -       430.0
Health                               -     368.4    699.9    254.1    246.1         235.8   1,804.3
Poroma to Koroba road            800.0  1,200.0  1,300.0  1,300.0  1,300.0    287.6   6,187.6
Culverts and small bridges       100.0    150.0    150.0    150.0         150.0      13.0      713.0
Formal education                    -      148.8    275.3    222.5        172.0    134.0       952.6
Nonformal education                  -     132.2    115.8       127.2     101.1     114.9      591.2
Provincial project
management                     155.6      70.5      67.0      67.0      67.0      67.0       494.1
Base costs                     1,932.9  3,803.2  4,504.4  4,147.3  2,859.1  1,238.8  18,485.7
Physical contingencies           105.6    246.7    322.2    247.2    230.7          112.1   1,264.5
Subtotal               2,038.5  4,049.9  4,826.6  4,394.5  3,089.8  1,350.9  19,750.2
Expected price increases          26.3    349.5    770.3  1,045.5    993.4    554.8   3,739.8
Total project cost       2,064.8  4,399.4  5,596.9  5,440.0  4,083.2  1,905.7  23,490.0



ANNEX 3
-73 -                              Table 8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
($'000)
IDA Fiscal year                                       Cumulative Disbursements
and quarter                                               at end of quarter
1979
December 31, 1978                                                 -
March 31, 1979                                                    760
June 30, 1979                                                  1,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                             1,700
December 31, 1979                                              2,400
March 31, 1980                                                 3,100
June 30, 1980                                                  3,800
1981
September 30, 1980                                             5,100
December 31, 1980                                              6,400
March 31, 1981                                                 7,700
June 30, 1981                                                  9,000
1982
September 30, 1981                                            10,300
December 31, 1981                                             11,600
March 31, 1982                                                12,900
June 30, 1982                                                 14,200
1983
September 30, 1982                                            15,200
December 31, 1982                                             16,200
March 31, 1983                                                17,200
June 30, 1983                                                18,200
1984
September 30, 1983                                           18,700
December 31, 1983                                             19,200
March 31  1984                                                19,700
June 30, 1984                                                20,000



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
Al World Bank, PNG Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Memorandum,
January 24, 1977.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1 Government of PNG, Southern Highlands Project, Project Preparation
Report, July 1977.
B2 Department of Works and Supply, Investigation Phase Report for
Poroma to Koroba Road Southern Highlands, January 1978.
C. Selected Working Papers
CL   Subsistence Agriculture
C2   Minor Cash Enterprises:  Cardamom and Silk
C3   Coffee
C4   Tea
C5   Forestry
C6   Health and Nutrition
C7   Rural Environmental Sanitation
C8   Roads
C9   Electrification
C10 Formal Education
Cll Nonformal Education
C12 Project Organization and the Executing Agencies



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PARTIAL STRUCTURE OF THE PAPUA NEW GUINEA GOVERNMENT
EEETAI                                   LABOUR.          ...         ...  LANDS  AN.DPTON DPTO
|DM   ATIONAL ZATIDNEVAOMENT                                                              FINATINAE       HELL
102 ELECTED MEMBERS r   E       1                     1  .    ~~~~~~~EXoECUTrIVE
OPPICE OF  BUREAU DF  PRDVINCIAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ COUCI
NATfONAL.                   .
PLANNING NE  M M F
COMMITTEE       cOMMITTEEC
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RMA NC                                                                                                                                                   I XC   S
ERADOCAST   COMENGE         LANUS         INETMNNIDPPOSTS                                   LERICIY        R MARKEIN                     SOUSING         -RSA
ZATION                                     ENVIR~~~~~~~~~OARDN    COPOATOEOGERIE                          COMILESSO       ED RI                          COMMSSSIOY
DEPT. OF  DEPT,      DEELOPMENT    MEDICAL                                              OFFT O
|TGENPRIMERAL                 DECENTRALI    EDUCATION                        COMMEFtCE    ENV  NMEN                                         UTILITIES                      INDUSTRYWORKO T
T OFFICE OF  |              g PROVINCIAL [                                                      l                       l S OU
THE N EC  |  | SERV ES  | |              l                                lOEVELOPMENA          |                      |               |                                 1      L    t                                   TRANSPNRCUC
IAUDITOR IILOA                            I**N 
|GENERAL'S I|OENET
CENTRAL |
PLANNING
|NATIONAL                                                                                                      COFCOT
|.-     STENT                                  TNDER S             POST
C=                                            COOMOISTION       RDECOMMISSSAS
|UNIVERSITY |                                                DV.PET|MDIA                                                     COFFEE 
OF P. N. G.                                                 IDEVEBANK EnT |BAD          n1   OMTE
IrUNIVERtSITY II                                  
IOF GTECHNO- -                                               |BANK OF  1X}NRIG 1
rNDUATIONAL                                                   |AKN
r    D H |0 SUPPLY &- --                                                                                                                                     World B-1,k 18358



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS PROVINCE
PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT - GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT RELATIONSHIPS
[     PROVINCIAL ASSEMBLY           l
[      PROVINCIAL CABINET            l
|  PROVINCIAL SECRETARIAT/3                      |           DEPARTMENT OF THE
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS/b
Division of          Division of                          r  - |         -  1
Primary              Business            Diuision of              /c
Industry           Development                           L E d      -  - t
/a To provide administrative and technical services to
the Provincial Assembly and the Provincial Cabinet
in the Southern Highlands Province.
b A department of National public servants that is
headed by the Administrative Secretary of the
Southern Highlands Province.
Other divisions will be formed as more powers are
devolved to the Province.
World Bank - 18362



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
INTERRELATIONS AT NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT LEVELS
National Level
National Executive Council
Minister of Finance
Department of                   Headquarters
Finance                        Project
Coordinating
Headquarters                    Committee
Project Manager                   (HQPCC)
(HCPM)
P   HQ GovernGent | u                       l
Depariienes         Papua New Guinea
(Project          Development Bank
invol ved )
.'rovincial Levei
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Provincial Government
| Provincial     l
Coordinating
Committee
Provincial                                   ProvinciaW Project
Project       *_ _ _ _ _ _*                     Manager
Coordinating                                         (PPM)
Committee
(PPCC)
Southernl
Prov. Govt.             Highlands               Southern
Divisions              Dev. Corp.             Highlandsl
(Project              (Holdings)            Management   * _   _   _
involved)             Pty. Ltd.              AutHority
|  District      l
| Committees      |
World Bank -18395






IERD 13269
5'00         .e-..                          EAST                      40~~~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ 00E   IO2                                                                                                     EERUARY 1978
I  A ,J   -   '.   E A S T  S E P I K                 PAPUA NEW  GUINEA                                         rOT                                   [.Z&                NEW IRELAND      A. 'k-V
I                                           RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT  I                                                         !           I         MANES         C!                : 
I t  i    >   .                               SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                     WEST                                          I
WEST                                             j             -                            POPULATION DISTRIBUTION                                                   SEDK)  EAST                                     -- N  W    - - - -
W  E S T                                                                                                                    0- _   \umberoB persoUGAnNV LLE
S E P I K                         ' '_                             r                                                     .  301A 500                Q                                            S                                I H                                    K\
A   A  A                                                                                                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUHR    V 10)EAST NEW BRIATNK
A        A ..     !|                                                   4  Less tEon iSL 100                                                      t       G                                     I                          A-.
< b \9 A - j E N GA                       -                                        MOin h gho ys                                                WESTERN    N -Y>VA i                '                                         7
- A                                                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.AIYAFrAV   (A   -A2                   ti  ENGA                                                                      Roen fourwisellveveSiclEs '--                                                                             E X '  NORTHfERN    . ..
PNAGO                                                                                      ~                                                                                                               5',1'
A'                   a"'115*h Apun ;7 <or                                                     Arovroe-- rioIec3 bouTdories                                                                                         0 __   9.> \  i5,SLt!
5E305  )ru   \u  /   |                                                                                                      5>30-   -otres   'trbPt                        CENTRAL-              S MILNEbAYt
CORAL   550 10
N                                                  S               ,                                                                                                                     I44 00                                             14b'00
N                     Gwula r.pondzrFo3sz K . *                                                                                                      E N G A
W E S T E R N                                                                                                                                                                                                 W E K  T E R N
N               KORST~~A      A                                                                                                            0C w '              -,0 :< 
|  j A ,M. tC )4R1 A 9r5o-                 toESo        T                                  \I                       /"- 
N              Ta ,As        4ro       ,w"'g+x                                                                              SR    /                  \     de    6T-
r   1O  20   30   40    S0       !                               ~~~~~~~A a- ;b -3    *  O
Mt133 i _ _ _ _-> _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-V                                        U    A0F
142'30'  hr3s00                                                  143430'                                             144'00'                                            144'J0A D
009,00040            '-A                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
-00V  WESTERN      I           A  ~~~~~~~~~~~              9-6       7-'       ..5,,,,,,,,\                             ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/     .          .-' A.                         WESTERN                                      E'L0~~~~~~~~~~~D
0,.-.> ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ .
VA  A                     '00    MU                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  *~~~~~.AA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~     psodoIAAB 
I~~  2~~~  30  AOAO AA> 
I             20           211~~~~~~~~~~                      0uo,                                       AAR              o
md-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*   *                  0, g' oo,"-oo






IBD 13269
030W   4Y30                                                                                I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fESRUARY 19A
5-                                                              EAT  SEPI                                          PAPUA NEW  GUINEA                                             ... . ..                                        EW IRELAND    PACIEf3 c
______                                   RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I                                                                      MADNG    -  -                                  EAN
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                WE.A
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION                                                   )  EAST                              I A 
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nio Lon\ AA- nube of NpeArsonhiwrs:                                                                                                           WESTNEWPRIAN -\    I}   |            i
WEST .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA. -   --  I  '.  b. fo_Ai
)                   I                                                U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ov- 500                             'LENGA )w
SEPI K               10<0                                                                                         @301- 500          Cur     .te   i-' ' roInI k Fundesn  -            J i01  N                                  -
-s 0300                                                                                                             VHopIo | 5 30 enIri                        Io 'AST0e -                                    AT DN-lW
p,                                                                                                                                             IILANSL                                     I           t I        tTAIN
- ;Kde !ignounys E                                                                                                                     A- mgh-SI,  WESTERN
\/                            *                           I                                            -R      or                                                                     I                               /kI4oo14
Pogo                                                                                                                        knes  Smroern               I           ,  N       ,     MNE BAY
AOSIRALrA             ~~CO  Ae SIjAA- 
N-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-
W  E S T E R N                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,o,,.,uvW  E S T E RN
AIU
0   ~             S *
n aM.e. * > sk _ = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 4 --,
U.~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ co=^e A  *0OiO                                                                                      A                                 ,
N  <~~~~~~~~~~~~oeor            Nenueee)\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                        dI
0       In      20       30      40      50            !                               0 -<                   Aore_
le           1     20            3C1)1>_
i                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~               ~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G U L F|
n14Z'50'I-                   --  -   - -      -      /-- -                        .     ...   ............
142- 30'ebo100000                                                           "jee          ISA bob  4447-00






BRD 13387
d142S30                                               143 0                                                  143                                                                  -                                11                           Y fhte k  i
,*Ov'                                                                                                                                 PAPA   EWGUNE
>'  /           ''"          '>. EAST SEPIK                                                       PAPUANEW GUINEA                                               NoC              'j   "i    S 7eW                              NEW tOEA           PACE(C
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I                                                        WES                               M - 1  S5 iCiAN
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                                         SEPIK r                              .,
HEALTH COMPONENT                                                                                  r  WAAAJ  *7'"''    mm
W    E S T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            74 Existig hospitls  _  L  g   'f  j-'_ ,-  A'  V
*   Eisting heae ocpi ce                                                 \N1<.GSA
j/   ~ <   ,   |  *   Existieg health svboeeters                              I Eti MICha,OSxpS    niisrj MOROPO  ; f :           i EA; AST NEW  lik:Mk
Existing healthoadposes id                                                              GULF St
R I ENGA                                           -         Ma hightrys                                                       WESTERN - p                                                                      I : v
_'____KOPIARoads-four Wheel drlve vehloles                                           - 0                                 ETteERN/         y    SQLQnTPO    SE,
ra, rvv              4van,                          vnr ,           i                                                   .-_. _ . Peovlnnial oxuedaires                                    s- ro,vP +          rnr                              '- \  O n24 \     5   rM5tLNP&AO           X i 
t\   \  9 \   +            |                                                                                                                            J 'rz     i         0  |  ;  \0   t    0   CayA>t   1 0  51iA  ;              *;    <fi>)  i ;;~~~~~~~~530  CNTRA.  n 
(DEAL  SEA   ~     ~    ~    SE
A                                                                                              Ri- Tpn;* jr'~ENG                                                               .
4400                                      SEar'~~~~~~~~~~44~
'   KOROk ta  ME andu                        ts                                                                  ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r npx nnnvnn e n  on  arrarnv,,i
T ..  ~ ~ ~ ~~~r,.                                                                                                                                                        OvdonnOriEn'xdNonnnG.                 o'AnWoOnr
r.               nrnehdo'' HAa,EN
W E 5 T E R N                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-  E S T ER 
N,                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 1'-"'"'^  ,   m    \'  (  -u   _.  fs  K ST
_~ ~     ~ ~ Ol |_onoA                                                                                                                                            ENG                   -'oaaT m t t<0Plr OKrno ~     -              t
!  r,iornxiih0 A'                                                                                                                                                         N WJOL
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EAEo n.h.b  _r,no  AV na                                                                                                                                    >       ,OT.O
K~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~E,,                          exbnr.r Tj          ncr  xenr                                                                                                                     
. __N          . _    _ .     . _    _  . _  . _ .         .  _    _    _    _    _   _    _   _ . _ .   . _   _   ,   _      _ . _ .     . _      _ _   _    
o6o'30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C Knb.In   M    U        3 0-
A                                                                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x    x
K 1-1- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~
1~~~~~~~~~~~~  2p  30 ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       o          '~krTdn                               N      o..         ,                          
M.1-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~n=
112~~~~~301   143-100                                                 143-30-                                                144-00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAV.                        14.rv.'Ti'              'o






1I8RD13388
j   lZz 30                       143o 00'                                     Iri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13 30'                                           gFeUJTi7 
i-W 2  ,-. EAST  SE PIK                                                               PAPUA NEW  GUINEA                                                .. .                                     NEW fRE,AND  
I   J  \  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  i                                         t          i        MAIvILIS      t    ti,,X<              OCSFf/J
SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS                                               WEST                                              "%   k           O
EDUCATION COMPONENT                                                    _,  EAST-"'y   AtANG / W  NA
WEST,                                                                                                                                                   | _ _'  I                ,         /  WEST riEWDTA IN\j k,E           SOUGATNVtF|
W   F S T                                                                                                                                                                                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*F//edhgicnn    ,
S E P I K                                                     / 1*                                                                                                            'g"> -ti-A -                                     AS NE  TEITAIN 
fT                I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESiIiB9/A-T -ty.T h..STE                 N,                                                        A4,
i-       ENGA                                            Mai h gh/a/a                                           WESTERN -  N                              _
_   - 5: _> )*  ~~~ - -v                \             !                                                   f/ ae-sfj aRe dn,ne,/a                                              W' >,5  /,pIQ.H.... - aTO/O                             Ta,
'/             '          .      TOPACO           !                                 _                         -/5 PVnAal SETndoPe-                                                               i .i/ b-d3
t   .A z,'4                                )             I                                                                                                              ..                      i                            MILNE BAY
p494 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~s-
sN3cg                              - b!,>o    \v =3a |         j                                                                                                   5 3u'       p>p,                          JCE  RAL ""'V.=,3
\ <e1e<t l J -~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                       ATTSTRALTA                 CO/TA AT      SPFA E
\   O o-|  l T.-d      ' -                                                                                              E N  G  A'_--
\   EN-n/a  - Wnimt ATeLwewLg                       i\                                              g               /                   Shil. HAGEN
\    aiSSreArS  X a p ^   _t,     WY       <\4              /vZ          ,      arS              \E            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cTiaiai'4','i,4''
W  E  \\A  woa.S T E RAVWE Sv TKL Er R N
N                N'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
N~~~~~~~
N.                                                            -4                                                                                           '-4-~~2_
ID I 2r             30      40       50!\ 5t.. K__
n     IC          ~~~~20    _3|0           !                                                                                      ,                                                          _        _
M,les  i_,___   _,_   _   _   _   _   _   _                              +     <      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~                                   G  U  L F 
5,--                       '-- -- - -   -   -   -
142-30'                                       143,U B334I4tr                                                                                                                               143
P:po 1SsGN



