Page  1
IDA GRANT NUMBER H106 BUR 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Regional HIV/AIDS Treatment Acceleration Project) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                                          , 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H106 BUR 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                            , 2004, between BURKINA 
FASO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has undertaken to support the Treatment 
Acceleration Program (the Program) in Burkina Faso, Republic of Ghana and Republic of 
Mozambique so as to test the feasibility of scaling-up existing HIV/AIDS treatment 
initiatives in Africa, and to promote in-country and cross-country learning with the 
support of the World Health Organization and United Nations Economic Commission for 
Africa; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project which forms part of the Program; 
(C)  
by an agreement dated September 6, 2001, the Association agreed to 
make available to the Recipient funds for the implementation of the HIV/AIDS Disaster 
Response Project within the framework of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the 
Africa Region and the Recipient desires to scale-up its HIV/AIDS treatment response by 
taking part in the Program; 
(D)  
the Association has entered into an agreement with the World Health 
Organization dated                   , 2004 (the WHO Agreement), under which the 
Association has agreed to provide a grant to assist in the financing of part of the Program, 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the WHO Agreement; 
(E) 
the Association has also entered into an agreement with the United 
Nations Organization (represented by the United Nations Economic Commission for 
Africa) (hereinafter referred to as UNECA) dated                     , 2004 (the UNECA 
Agreement), under which the Association has agreed to provide a grant to assist in the 
financing of part of the Program, on the terms and conditions set forth in the UNECA 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“ART” means Anti-Retro Viral Therapy; 
(b) “CMLS/Santé 
means 
Comité Ministériel de Lutte Contre le SIDA
,
the 
office within MOH for the coordination of the Health Sector HIV/AIDS program referred 
to in Paragraph A.2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la
 
Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Recipient; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental 
Management Plan dated March 30, 2003, satisfactory to the Association, describing 
measures for mitigating the potential environmental impact of hazardous and other 
wastes produced under the Project as well as small civil works, as the same may be 
updated from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
 
(g) 
“Financial Management Agent” or “FMA” means the Financial 
Management Agent to be appointed by MOH, through PADS Management Unit, 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, to be responsible for the financial 
management and accounting aspects of the Project; 
(h) 
“Financial Management Manual” means the Financial Management 
Manual, referred to in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, that sets out the 
financial and accounting arrangements for Implementing Partners and the Recipient’s 
entities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
 
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve month period corresponding to 
any of the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(k) 
“Five Elements of Treatment and Care” means: (i) VCT; (ii) home based 
patient care and family support; (iii) treatment of opportunistic infections; (iv) ART; and 
(v) PMTCT and PMTCT-Plus; 
(l) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-deficiency Virus/Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(m) 
“IEC” means information, education and communications; 
(n) 
“Implementing Partner” means a non-governmental organization, 
association or private sector entity that has been selected by the Recipient to take part in 
the Project and with whom MOH has entered into a Sub-Grant Agreement in accordance 
with paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health or any successor 
thereto; 
(p) 
“Technical Committee” means the 
Comité Technique de Prise en Charge 
Médicale de l’Infection  VIH,
 the Technical Committee related to HIV within MOH 
referred to in Paragraph A.2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“PADS Management Unit” means the management unit of the 
Recipient’s Health District Support Program referred to in paragraph A.2(c) of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement; 
(r) 
“PMTCT” means Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission; 
(s) 
“PMTCT-Plus” means Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission plus 
other interventions, including family centered care linked to the local community, 
continuity of care drawing on a multi-disciplinary team of providers and long term 
retention of patients, ART for the mother and infected infant and family members, 
psychosocial support and treatment of STIs and depression, and interventions to integrate 
treatment adherence with other available community programs such as family planning 
and reproductive health; 
(t) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual, to 
be adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, giving details of 
guidelines and procedures agreed with the Association for the implementation, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and the procurement 
procedures and guidelines for Sub-Projects, as same may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Operational Manual;  
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan covering 
the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(w) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(x) 
“Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Part A of the Project, and referred to 
in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(y) 
“
Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Part B of the Project, and referred to 
in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A and Special Account B; 
(aa) 
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infections; 
(bb) 
“Sub-Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, to an Implementing 
Partner out of the proceeds of the Grant to finance a Sub-Project; 
(cc) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient, through MOH, and an Implementing Partner, pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) 
and paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sub-Grant Agreement; 
(dd) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Part A of the Project, in respect 
of which a Sub-Grant has been, or may be, provided; and 
(ee) 
“VCT” means Voluntary Counseling and Testing. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twelve million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 12,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (a) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient 
on account of withdrawals made under a Sub-Grant Agreement to meet the reasonable 
costs of goods, works and services required for a Sub-Project, in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; (b) for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Euro or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 and 
December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007,  or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MOH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Project Operational Manual and the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 
3.04. 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association, WHO, and UNECA, to visit any part of its territory 
for purposes related to the Grant, and shall cooperate with such representatives in such 
manner as to facilitate the carrying out by the Association, WHO, and UNECA, of their 
respective obligations under the Program. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.05. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Recipient and the Association, 
no expenditures required for a Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, unless the Recipient shall have carried out, in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, an environmental assessment for the Sub-Project, and 
shall have undertaken processes and activities to mitigate any negative environmental 
impacts of such Sub-Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan, 
together with evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the Sub-Project shall not 
involve any involuntary resettlement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement  the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Page  10
-
9
-
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Operational Manual in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(b)  
the Recipient has appointed a Financial Management Agent for the 
Project under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted the Procurement Plan for the first 18 months of 
the Project; 
(d)  
the Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(e) 
the Recipient has entered into Sub-Grant Agreements with the 
Implementing Partners in form and substance acceptable to the Association.  
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
 
03
BP 7008 
 
Ouagadougou 03  
 
Burkina Faso 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SEGEGOUV 
 
5555 
 
 
(226) 31 27 15 or 
 
(226) 31 54 09 
 
For the Association: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
210,000 
100% 
 
 
(2) 
Goods, drugs and  
4,700,000 
100%  
 supplies 
 
 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 1,040,000 
100% 
 
services and training 
 
 
(4) 
Sub-Grants 
5,170,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
275,000 
100% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
1,105,000 
 
 
========
TOTAL 12,500,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means the 
incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of local contractual 
support staff salaries, travel expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment 
rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and 
maintenance, materials and supplies; utilities and communications’ expenses; field 
supervision costs and bank charges, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s 
civil service. 
3. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
provisions of a letter issued by the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Budget, pursuant 
Page  14
-
13
-
to Law No. 062-2003/AN dated December 19, 2003
 
of the Recipient, which provides for 
an exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the territory of the Recipient on 
works, goods and services for this Project.  If any change is made to said letter and Legal 
Notices, which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods 
and services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
the first payment to each Implementing Partner under Category 4 of the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the Association has received 
through the Recipient, a satisfactory annual program proposal from the Implementing 
Partner; and  
(c) 
all subsequent payments to each Implementing Partner under Category 4 
of the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the Association has 
received through the Recipient acceptable financial and implementation reports for the 
previous quarter from the Implementing Partner. 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e)  all operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in FCFA in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment two special deposit accounts, namely: (a) Special Account 
A
for Part A of the Project; and (b) Special Account B for Part B of the Project. 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
Page  16
-
15
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any of 
the Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, 
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of the Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 1,000,000,000 in respect of Special Account A and an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 800,000,000 in respect of Special Account B, to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 
500,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent to CFAF 
400,000,000 in respect of the Special Account B, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  
On the basis of each such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the respective Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the respective Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any of the 
Special Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation of each respective Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of the Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
each respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to scale-up and implement 
comprehensive treatment programs for persons living with HIV/AIDS by providing a 
range of quality services which are effective, affordable and equitable. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A:
Scaling-Up HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment
Provision of Sub-Grants to support the enhancement and expansion of the Five 
Elements of Treatment and Care provided by Implementing Partners, including: 
(a) rehabilitating health facilities and expanding the number of VCT and ante-natal sites; 
(b) carrying out of IEC; (c) provision of training to community counselors, birth 
attendants, and staff of the Implementing Partners; (d) provision of nutrition education; 
(e) strengthening of appropriate ambulatory care; (f) acquisition of appropriate diagnostic 
equipment and materials,  pharmaceutical drugs (other than those provided by the MOH) 
and supplies; and (g) treatment of STIs and depression. 
Part B:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity of MOH
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOH for the expansion of HIV/AIDS care and 
treatment, through: (a) the provision of technical advisory services and training for the 
development and implementation of treatment policy and the accreditation and approval 
of Implementing Partners; (b) the provision of training on patient monitoring and 
tracking; (c) carrying out of research; (d) preparation of workshops and meetings; and 
(e) acquisition of equipment. 
2. 
Development and implementation of plans for the expansion of physical 
infrastructure, human resource development and drug requirements, including: 
(a) carrying out of limited civil works; (b) acquisition of extensive diagnostic and 
laboratory material and equipment; and (c) provision of technical assistance and training. 
3. 
Carrying out of feasibility studies for improved patient tracking and 
implementing the recommendations from such studies. 
Page  21
-
20
-
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services, training and material support to 
facilitate the financial management, auditing and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and 
services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Grants” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
ARV’s and other related products which the 
Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
3. Shopping
.
Works and goods (other than ARV’s and other related products) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and ARV’s and other related 
products estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  23
-
22
-
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method with the prior approval of the Association. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods including drugs may be procured 
directly from UNICEF, WHO and other specialized United Nations agencies in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
6. Commercial 
Practices
.
Goods and works for Sub-Grants made to Implementing 
Partners under Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices as described in the Project Operational Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to the prior approval of the 
Association. 
Page  24
-
23
-
5. 
Selection of UN Agencies and Nongovernmental Organizations as Consultants. 
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.15 and 3.16 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.15 and 3.16 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Commercial 
Practices
.
Services under Sub-Grants made to Implementing 
Partners under Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices as described in the Project Operational Manual. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (c) each contract for 
goods and works procured under Direct Contracting; (d) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; (e) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000
 
or more; and (f) each contract for services procured under Single 
Source Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
A.  
Institutional Arrangements
1.  
The Recipient shall vest in MOH the overall responsibility for coordinating the 
implementation of the Project. MOH shall be supported in the carrying out of its 
responsibilities under the Project by CMLS/Sant
é. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain within MOH: 
(a)   
CMLS/Santé, whose mandate, terms of reference and composition shall 
be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for day-to-day execution of the 
Project, including consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, preparation and 
production of annual progress reports, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, liaising 
with UNECA and WHO for the carrying out of learning activities under the Program and 
coordination of the work of the Technical Committee and PADS Management Unit. 
(b)  
The Technical Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association. The Technical Committee shall be 
responsible for  providing technical support to CNLS/Santé, including analyzing and 
revising treatment guidelines and strategies, identifying treatment problems and finding 
solutions thereto, supervising the delivery of treatment services and care provided, 
reviewing and approving Implementing Partner Sub-Grant proposals and reviewing and 
approving annual work plans and progress reports submitted by Implementing Partners.  
(c)  
PADS Management Unit, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the management 
of procurement, financial management and disbursement activities under the Project, 
including appointment and supervision of the FMA, preparation of financial reports and 
FMR’s, preparation of reports on the procurement of drugs and other items, accounting, 
coordination of audit activities and maintenance of the Special Account. 
B.  
Project Operational Manual and Financial Management Manual
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth 
in the Project Operational Manual and the Financial Management Manual, and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if 
such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Financial Management Manual shall include financial management aspects 
related to Implementing Partners as well as those related to MOH and other entities of the 
Recipient. 
Page  26
-
25
-
C. Sub-Grants
1. 
Eligibility Criteria for Implementing Partners
Implementing Partners shall be selected to carry out activities related to 
HIV/AIDS treatment and care in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and 
guidelines set forth in the Project Operational Manual and in the annex to this Schedule 4. 
2.  
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Grant Agreements
(a) 
The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-Projects shall be prepared, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance 
with the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the 
Project Operational Manual and the Environmental Management Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, through MOH, enter into agreements with 
Implementing Partners, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include the following: 
(i)  
the obligation of the Implementing Partner: (i) to carry out the 
Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound administrative financial, environmental and public 
health standards; and (ii) to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures relating to the Sub-Project; 
(ii) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall: (A) be procured in 
accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual; and (B) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-Project; and 
(iii) 
the Recipient reserves the right to: 
(A) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-Project, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(B) 
obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of the Implementing 
Partner; and 
Page  27
-
26
-
(C) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing 
Partner to use the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon the 
failure by the Implementing Partner to perform any of its 
obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement. 
D. 
Reports and Reviews
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about eighteen (18)  months after the effectiveness date, 
a
report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, no later than three (3) months after 
submission, or such later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations
 of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Annex to Schedule 4 
Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Implementing Partners 
The following selection criteria shall apply to all Implementing Partners to qualify for 
Sub-Grants, in a manner satisfactory to the Association: 
A. Institutional 
Requirements 
·
Legal entity operating within the territory of the Recipient; 
·
clear management structure and satisfactory internal controls; 
·
located in the Recipient’s territory with field offices (preferred) to 
provide coverage to an appropriate numbers of population clusters (or 
geographic areas); 
·
access to means of communications including; 
·
access to professional and trained staff including doctors, nurses and 
technicians (on HIV/AIDS-STI); 
·
access to administrative and project management staff including financial 
and procurement management; 
·
demonstrative working partnership with the Ministry of Health, private 
sector clinics and hospitals and/or other non-governmental organizations; 
and 
·
implemented (or implementing) Sub-Projects financed by other donors.  
B.  
Implementation requirements 
·
Can produce most recent annual report, financial statements and/or latest 
financial audit report; 
·
demonstrated capacity of proper records keeping (financial and other); 
·
willing to sign performance-based contract with Ministry of Health that 
would trigger disbursement of fund advances; 
·
clear field supervision, monitoring and evaluation strategy for the scaling 
up of treatment; 
·
has forms and formats relevant to patient monitoring; 
Page  29
-
28
-
·
can produce implementation action plans with associated cost estimates; 
and 
·
preferably has the capacity to receive drugs from a central location and 
distribute to the treatment sites.  
C. 
HIV/AIDS Treatment Specific Requirements 
·
willingness and a clear strategy for rapidly scaling up their treatment 
programs; 
·
leadership and initiative in expanding quality HIV care and services 
which will limit implementation delays and enable the program to build 
on existing resources and the sources provided by the Project; 
·
flexibility and capacity to integrate ARV therapy into existing 
HIV/AIDS primary care and provide the continuum of treatment and 
care.  This approach represents an effective and replicable model of ARV 
therapy in resource-limited settings that addresses HIV/AIDS as a 
chronic disease requiring continuous and appropriate care, support, and 
other services; 
·
can leverage existing in-country resources and expertise.  This is  critical 
in supporting site-driven programs and maximizing coordination of 
efforts on a local and national scale; increasing utilization of available 
resources and expertise; and building in-country capacity for scaling-up 
in the future; 
·
agreement on clear protocols  for ARV eligibility, screening criteria; 
regimens, clinical and laboratory monitoring and follow-up, adherence, 
management of side effects, treatment interruptions and failures; 
·
developed (or developing) networks with community based 
organizations, including those for people living with AIDS, and 
community leaders and stakeholders; and  
·
practicing (or developing) a system in place for tracking patients, 
medical records and charting for clinical care and laboratory.  
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a)(ii) and 6.02 (c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to 
read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
Page  31
-
30
-
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 
(a)(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c)(i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
