                                                                               43652
                    DATA SHEET PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                    -
     Africa Region,RegionalHIV/AIDS Treatment Acceleration Program(TAP)
  IDA GrantsH1040-MOZ,H1050-GH,H1060-BUR, HlOSO-RAF,andH1090-RAF

Date: April 23,2008                               Team Leader: Albertus Voetberg
Country: Africa Regional                          Sector Manager: ElizabethLule
Project Name: RegionalHIV/AIDS Treatment          CountryDirector: MarkTomlinson
Acceleration Program (TAP)                        EnvironmentalCategory: B




FY                     2005           2006          2007          2008          2009
Annual                       9.1          10.6          15.2          15.1           9.8
Cumulative                   9.1          19.7          34.9          50.0           59.8



Does the restructured Project require any exceptions to Bank policies?   o Yes   x No
Havethese been approved by Bank management?                              oYes oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?             oYes xNo




                                Source                                        Total
Recipients:
Government o fBurkina Faso                                             $ 0.0
Government o f Ghana                                                   $ 0.57 million
Government o f Mozambique                                              $ 0.74 million
UNECA                                                                  $ 0.22 million
World Health Organization (WHO)                                        $ 0.0
Recipients Total                                                       $ 1.53 million
IBRD/IDA                                                               $ 59.8 million


                                         I.INTRODUCTION

1.       MAP Overview and Restructuring. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the
Board to introduce changes in the Regional HIV/AIDS Treatment Acceleration Program
(IDA Grants H1040-MOZ, H1050-GH, H106&BUR, H1080-RAF, andH1090-RAF) and
any accompanying amendments to the Program's legal documents.                        The proposed
changes are within the "Sub-Saharan Africa HIVAIDS Proaram Proposed Restructuring
and Amendment of the Financina Agreements (Report No. IDA/R2007-0188) ".                       The
Umbrella Restructuring was approved by SECBO on June 29, 2007. The Memorandum
of the President highlights that inthe future, existing Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
(MAP) projects would be restructured within the overall framework of the Umbrella
Restructuring. Box 1below captures and highlights the key chronological points o f the
original          and          restructured           programs           for         ease       of
reference.
                                    ~    ~~



                               Box 1: TAP Restructuring Chronology

  2000: The landmark Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)approved by WBG Board to
  both scale up Banksupport to HIV/AIDS programs across Africa, as well as to provide a
  framework for national level response to combating HIV/AIDS. In response, Ghana, Burkina
  Faso and Mozambique designed their national level MAP programs in collaboration with the
  WBG. The key issuewas that MAPsupported all aspectsof a nationalHIV/AIDS policy except
  financing treatment of HIV/AIDS patients.

  2004: The Treatment Acceleration Program(TAP) was a response to the absence of treatment
  options in the MAP. The TAP was designed to pilot strategies to strengthen country's capacity
  to scale up HIV/AIDS services. The emphasis of the programhas been on scaling up treatment
  and care, inparticular increased enrollment of patients on anti-retroviral therapy.

  2005: The QAG review recommended that incorporation of a learning component would better
  enable the team to scale up and improve service delivery. Also inJune 2005, the WB hosted a
  tripartite meeting inNairobi with UNECA and WHO and reached consensuson broadening the
  original TAP objective to include a learning and application focus.

  2007: June 29,2007, WB Board approved a restructuring of the MAP,providing, inter alia, for
  all existing MAPSto be restructured pursuant to the 2007 Umbrella Restructuring.

  2008: Now, this proposed restructuringseeks to broaden the focus of TAP to include a research
  and learning focus in the design, delivery, and scale up of all HIV/AIDS programs.




2.       Rationalefor TAP Restructuring. The proposed first order restructuring o f the
Treatment Acceleration Program (TAP) i s within the scope o f the Umbrella
Restructuring. The restructuring will allow for the ProjectDevelopment Objective (PDO)
to better reflect the objective o f providing learning for replication and scaling up
treatment at the Regional level. Despite the fact that learning was always part o f the
program design there was an initial perception o f emphasis on treatment inthe context o f
service delivery and increased enrollment o f patients on anti-retroviral therapy. This
perception was highlighted as a major limitation in the June 2005 QAG "Quality at

 Entry" assessment report which provided two key recommendations for improving the
 program. Namely, for the project team to "(i) the development objectives (DOs)
                                                              refocus
 explicitly to reflect the objective o f providing learning for replication and scaling up
 treatment at the Regional level; (ii) reinforce the on-going efforts to establish
                                                   sharply
 clear learning agendas and accountabilities."                 While the project team accepted those
 recommendations, it took time to a) reach consensus and buy-in on the learning agenda
 from all five grant recipients; b) determine the results that would be reasonably
 achievable within a newly established learning agenda; c) manage the perception that the
 World Bank was, after all, not committed to supporting antiretroviral treatment; and d)
 allay fears that such a new agenda would shift project resource allocations away from
 supporting anti-retroviral treatment.

 3.       InJune 2005, shortly after all program-related Development Grant Agreements
 (DGAs)became effective, the WorldBank hosted a tri-partitemeetinginNairobiwiththe
 United Nations Economic Commission for Afr-ica (UNECA) and the World Health
 Organization (WHO) to reach consensus on the learning aspects and potential for the
TAP, consistent with the pilot and testing nature o f the program. The proposed new PDO
would aim at contributing to the development o f an evidence base' for future scale-up o f
 anti-retroviral therapy in the Africa region. This evidence base would then allow for a
more appropriate basis for evaluating the program after its closing date.



                                11.BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT


OriPinal Propramand DevelopmentObiective


4.        The TAP was approved by the Board o f Directors on June 17, 2004 to pilot
strategies for strengthening each participating country's                          capacity to scale up
comprehensive HIV/AIDS programs comprising service delivery o f affordable and
equitable care and treatment.             Shortly thereafter, the five DGAs became effective on
November 22, 2004 (Mozambique DGA), November 23, 2004 (UNECA DGA), March
11, 2005 (Burkina Faso DGA) and March 24, 2005 (Ghana and WHO DGAs)
respectively.




  Anti-retroviral treatment at large(r) scale is a relatively new intervention inAfrica subject to rapid changes
and improved insights inclinical and management practices. Inaddition, while the benefits interms o f
improving the length and quality o f life are well established, other benefits and potential risks are less well
researched and documented. The evidence base for decisions on how to best scale up treatment would keep
governments abreast o f the latest developments inclinical and health sector management, riskmanagement,
and practical options to achieve most benefits.
                                                          2

Components


5.      Over the initial implementation period o f three years (now extended to four
years), the TAP program was expected to finance the following three components:
       a. Testing approaches for scaling-up service delivery for HIV/AIDS care and
           treatment (combined $38.82 million: Burkina Faso $13.48 million, Ghana
           $9.86 million and Mozambique $15.48 million). These service delivery
           approaches would be tested through Implementing Partners identified at
           country level, who have demonstrated success at providing HIV/AIDS care and
          treatment on a small scale. Specifically, the Implementing Partners include
           associations o f people living with HIV/AIDS in Burkina Faso, international
          NGOs inMozambique, andprivate sector clinics andorganizations inGhana.
       b. Strengthening institutional capacity for HIV/AIDS care and treatment
          (combined $16.51 million: Burkina Faso $4.63 million, Ghana $5.72 million
          and Mozambique $6.16 million) to ensure adequate referral mechanisms to
          support the activities o f the Implementing Partners and build overall capacity
          within the Ministry of Health to scale up national HIV/AIDS treatment
          coverage; and
       c. Facilitating regional learning from the TAP countries (combined $6.0
          million: WHO $4.0 million and UNECA $2.0 million), with WHO providing
          technical capacity support for the Ministries o f Health and Implementing
          Partners, while UNECA           would   support    cross-border  learning and
          dissemination o f lessons learned within the African continent.




Key Investments


6.      The program's main investments at the level o f the three countries are in the (1)
development o f capacity to deliver treatment services and quality assurance, (2) the
procurement o f anti-retroviral drugs and laboratory equipment, and, (3) as sub-grants, in
contributions to the operational costs incurred by the Implementing Partners.        The
investmentsunder the respective grants to WHO and UNECA are focused on providing
Technical Assistance at country level and technical contributions for the Regional
Advisory Panel (RAP) and Regional Clinical Coordination Committee (RCCC) meetings
(WHO), and TJNECA would ensure the facilitation o f inter-country learning through the
organization o f the RAP meetings and dissemination o f lessons learned on scaling up
HIV/AIDStreatment to the African continent.




                                             3

Performance


7.        Disbursements. As o f April 14, 2008, the TAP program has disbursed the
equivalent of USD 46.2 million, or 77% o f the original' total IDA contribution under the
five grant agreements. The D O and ImplementationProgress are rated satisfactory.


8.        The initial slow start to implementation and disbursement was a result o f delays in
the recruitment of some Implementing Partners and the required training for service
providers before they could be accredited by the Ministries of Health to deliver anti-
retroviral treatment. For instance, some grant recipients did not understand the Bank's
fiduciary procedures, or the effectiveness conditions for the WHO grant.                           This
misunderstanding resulted in delays earlier that have since been corrected and
disbursementis now on track as per revisedestimates.


9.       Indicators to measure performance.             The program has performed satisfactorily
with regardto its original PDO, including its related outcomes andoutputs. However, the
PDO, as currently stated, does not highlight the learning agenda as much as the program
design implies. The key PDO Indicators that have been usedare: 1) nationally improved
treatment policies, guidelines and protocols are implemented; 2) treatment performance
i s determined to be technically competent (by WHO) and managerially sound (by IDA);
3) official scale-up plans for infrastructure, human resource development, and logistics
management are being implemented;               and 4) the estimated number (or proportion) o f
persons utilizing voluntary counseling and treatment (VCT) services, receiving
Opportunistic Infection (01) prophylaxis, accessing Prevention o f Mother to Child
Transmission (PMTCT) services, and being treated with antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) has
increased. Appendix A presents the status and figures on the original TAP program
indicators.


10.      A learning agenda was developed shortly after Project Effectiveness during a tri-
partitemeetingbetween WHO, UNECA and the World Bank. The agenda, consisting o f
eight draft questions to be addressed under the TAP, was subsequently shared and
discussed with the three countries involved.                 These learning agenda questions are
reflected in Appendix C. Initial concern that an increased focus on the learning aspects
would compromise the availability of resources for service delivery was addressed
through the mobilization o f additional resources for research, in close collaboration with
the Development Economics Research Group (DECRG). While the scope o f the learning
agenda proved to be very ambitious, considerable progress has been made in addressing
the learningagenda questions, both informal and informalways.




* Due to fluctuations inthe SDR and USD exchange rate, the equivalent U S D value o fthe TAP project is
over the USD 59.8 million allocated to the countries butthis is the benchmark we have used.
                                                     4

 11.    Emerging learning focus and need for its incorporation into PDO. Informal
learninghas taken place at country level during field visits organized as part o f prelude to
the last three (3) Regional Advisory Panel (RAP) meetings, and through informal
communications between the country participants and institutions. Formal learning has
taken place during the RAP meetings by identifying a thematic topic for the meeting and
integrating various aspects throughout the discussions and meeting agenda. Identified
themes have included capacity building, drug resistance monitoring, service integration
(Mozambique, Ghana), TB-HIV collaborative activities and management o f Multi-Drug-
Resistant and extensively-DrugResistant (MDR and XDR)-TB, PMTCT integration and
scale-up, pediatric antiretroviral treatment, adherence support strategies, and approaches
to sustain Public-Private-Partnerships (Burkina Faso). Formal learning is also ongoing
through analytical work and sentinel surveys being conducted in all three countries that
respond to some o f the learning agenda questions. At least one official publication inthe
July 2007 issue o f A I D S was the result o f work directly supported by the TAP. An
updated schedule o f the household-, facility-, and behavioral sentinel surveys being
conducted under the aegis o f TAP activities (primarily with funding from the Bank-
Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP)) is provided in Appendix D, with relevant
timelines and indications o f financing sources.

12.     The intermediate outcome indicators o f the program have been substantially
achieved (see Appendix A), as demonstrated by the results pertaining to number o f
persons accessing VCT services, mother-infant pairs accessing PMTCT services, the
numberof HIV infectedperson accessingprophylaxis for opportunistic infections andthe
number ofpersons livingwith AIDS that are on ARV treatment. With the support ofthe
TAP, the number o f HIV-positive pregnant women who accessed PMTCT services
increased more than three-fold in Mozambique, more than six-fold in Ghana and
increased from a negligible number to more than 12,000 a year in Burkina Faso. Also,
since the start o f the TAP, the percentage o f eligible persons on anti-retroviral treatment
increased more than ten-fold in Burkina Faso and Ghana, and more than three-fold in
Mozambique. Lessons learned during implementation have helped the countries realize
the necessity for more integrated treatment services, linking HIV/AIDS care and
treatment to antenatal care, TB and reproductive health services, and pushed
Mozambique, especially, to move towards utilizing other health professionals besides
doctors to scale up antiretroviral treatment and care.
13.    A one-year extension of the closing date has already been processed from
September 30, 2007 to September 30, 2008 to allow the research and learning aspects to
reach a more significant level o f completion, and provide concrete evidence and lessons
for future H I V treatment programming. The extension will also allow the grant recipients
to better prepare themselves for the period after the closing date when alternative
financing sources will be required to continue the treatment o f patients.         All Grant
recipients have submitted their workplans for the period up to the new closing date,
consistent with the proposed new PDO as agreed during the RAP meetinginAccra 2007.



                                              5

Difficultiesencountered


14.     The harmonization ofreporting formats for data from three different countries has
been a challenge since the three countries apply different approaches to project
management. InMozambique, the TAP i s considered as one o f many partners ina joint
programmatic framework, while Burkina Faso separates the contributions from various
partners on a project-by-project basis. The project team now reports the data from the
TAP countries on a country-by-country basis, rather than forcing a single reporting format
on incompatible approaches. Second, although the TAP i s one program, it is dividedin
five separate grant agreements, which translates into a challenge whenever joint
agreements or joint approaches are required. Third, while all grant recipients greatly
value the mutual benefits o f inter-country learning, concerns remain about the
sustainability o f regional learning when no new platform for such is established.
UNECA, as a regional institution, i s looking into opportunities to establish a regional
learningplatform to continue the activity.

Rationale for restructuring


15.     Despite the fact that learning was always part of the program design there was an
initial perception of emphasis on treatment in the context o f service delivery and
increased enrollment o f patients on anti-retroviral therapy. The proposed restructuring
will allow for the Project Development Objective (PDO) to better reflect the objective of
providing learning for replicationand scaling up treatment at the Regional level. It would
also respond to the recommendations o f the 2005 "Quality at Entry" assessment report as
mentioned in paragraph 2 above. The proposed new PDO would articulate the aim o f
contributing to the development of an evidence base for consideration by client countries
for future scale-up o f anti-retroviral therapy in the Africa region. This evidence base
would also form a more appropriate basis for evaluating the Program after its closing
date.




                                             6

           111. SUMMARYOFPROPOSEDPROJECTAMENDMENTS


 16.     The proposed changes include modificationof the ProjectDevelopment Objective
andthe keyperformance indicators. Individual lettersrequesting these changes havebeen
received from the governments o f all 3 countries, UNECA and WHO. Table-1 shows the
summary o f key changes to the projects seeking Board approval.


                         Table-1 AmendmentsRequiringBoardApproval


                                                                 hanges/Revisions
                                                                        I       I      I




                                         XlJlX I J                  x         I    x   I  x
   2. Ghana                              3eX                X       x l x l x l x
   5. WHO                                  X       J       X        x I     J l x l x
         $:Yes;     x: No
         (*) Such as increaseindisbursementpercentages,reallocation offunds, adoptingof CountryFinancingParameters (CFP)



17.      Current Project Development Objective. To pilot strategies for strengthening
each country's capacity to scale up comprehensive HIV/AIDS programs providing care
andtreatment, which are effective, affordable, andequitable.

18.      ProposedProjectDevelopmentObjective. The changes inthe PDO are made to
acknowledge the purpose and potential o f the program in the learning from country
experiences and related research. The PDO has therefore been reformulated as follows:
To contribute to the evidence base which will inform HIWAIDS programs on the
benefits, risks, risk mitigation and management modalities of anti-retroviral treatment
scale-up. This objective would be achieved by utilizing the existing scaled up activities
in provision of comprehensive HIV/AIDS care and treatment to inform the on-going
research and other learning activities on the benefits, risks, mitigation and management
modalities related to the scale-up o f antiretroviral treatment.

19.     Key PerformanceIndicators. The proposed restructuringwould also modify the
Program's key performance indicators and targets as presented in Appendix B to this
document and as discussed in the Section on Expected Outcomes below to sufficiently
reflect the learningaspects.


                                                            7

20.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.              The proposed changes
consist mainly o f fine-tuning the PDO and performance indicators without changing the
institutional and/or implementation arrangementsbythe various Grant recipients.

21,     Financingparameters,disbursementand procurementrules.

        a) The Grant's closing date has been extended to September 30, 2008 to provide
        the three governments with adequate implementationtime to achieve the revised
        PDO. In particular, the finalization of on-going research and dissemination o f
        such results and lessons learned among the three countries and other regional
        stakeholders for improving the scale-up o f antiretroviral treatment inAfrica. The
        current balance o f approximately SDR 12.53 million ($16.37 million equivalent)
        would be sufficient to finance ongoing Program activities. The extension also
        partially compensates for the seven month delay in Project effectiveness and
        consecutive implementation delays (13 months) owing to lack of clear
        understanding on roles and responsibilities by all implementing agencies. The
        revised Project implementation schedules o f the five partners (three countries and
        two development agencies) also provide a realistic timeframe to achieve the
        revisedPDO and targets as described inAppendix B.

        b) The Country Financing Parameters for Mozambique were approved on
        October 5, 2004 and in the interests o f simplifylng Project hnd flow procedures,
        and to benefit from 100% Country Financing Parameters (CFP), the government
        o f Mozambique has expressed its interest to amend Schedule 1o f their respective
        DGAs to provide for 100% financing in all the disbursement categories. The
        MoHand the CNCS have noted that, althoughsmall amounts of co-financing are
        required(15-20%), this has causeddelays inthe payment o f certain contracts. The
        proposed increase will have a limited impact on the project financing plan. At
        present 74 percent o f the grant i s financed at 100 percent by IDA, i.e. those
        expenditures in the categories for a) goods, drugs and equipment, and b) sub-
        grants. During the remainder o f the project the change to 100% financing will
        only affect an expenditure o f US$300,000 for a health facility assessment
        (previously to be financed at 86 percent by IDA). N o works (previously to be
        financed at 85 percent) and no or very little operating costs (previously financed at
        80 percent) are expected to be financed duringthe remainder o f the project.

        c) All audits are current for this and ongoing programs being implemented by the
        agencies involved inthe sector.

22.     Reallocationof Grant Proceeds The grant proceeds will be reallocated ineach
        country inline with the revised PDO, as outlined inAnnex E.


23.     There are no reallocations requiredfor the UNECA DGA.



                                             8

24.      Recommended Amendments.             The overall amendments for which Board
approval is sought include: (i)  Schedule 1, Reallocation o f Grant proceeds for the grants
for Burkina Faso, Ghana, Mozambique and WHO; and an increase in disbursement
percentage for the grant to Mozambique; (ii)       Schedule 2: Change in Project objectives
andKeyPerformance Indicators for all five Recipients


                               IV. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

25.      The proposed restructuring will modify the Project's Development Objective and
include additional relevant Key Performance Indicators and targets to reflect the revised
PDO as presented inAppendix C.

26.      Revised Program indicators and targets have been defined jointly with all Grant
Recipients and key partners under the guidance o f the Global A I D S Monitoring and
Evaluation Team (GAMET).           The revised monitoring indicators are presented in
Appendix B.




                                 V. BENEFITSAND RISKS


27.      The benefits of the restructuring are principally twofold: First, it enables the
learning focus to inform design o f service delivery o f this and future HIV/AIDStreatment
programs, and second, it allows for a more appropriate basis for the final evaluation o f
TAP and lessons extraction going forward. For the Implementing Partners under the
program, the restructuring would re-affirm the focus on learning how to maximize the
benefits o f anti-retroviral therapy and how to minimize the risks of, in particular, drug
resistance development. For the Recipient Countries, the benefit o f the restructuring
would be to allow sufficient time to integrate the lessons learned on the operational
implications o f scaling up anti-retroviral treatment within the African context, while
monitoring and minimizing the risks identified to date through the existing activities, as
well as providing additional time to identify the appropriate transition and sustainable
mechanisms for continuing treatment for current beneficiaries.          Current beneficiaries
under the TAP program will also benefit from receiving continued care and support
activities, in addition to their anti-retroviral treatment, from the Implementing Partners
usingthe existing resources. Beneficiaries receive care and support inthe form of home-
based care, psychosocial counseling and support, as well as nutrition support,
management and treatment o f opportunistic infections, and ongoing adherence
monitoring from Implementing Partners. Many Implementing Partners have also used
beneficiaries to show the benefits o f enrolling AIDS patients on treatment through
various incentive mechanisms that help the beneficiaries contribute to their communities.




                                              9

28.    The financial sustainability o f the Program i s high risk. However, the one-year
extension will be used as a transition period during which the costs o f antiretroviral
treatment o f those patients whose treatment was initiated under the TAP will be secured
under alternative financing mechanisms. As such, the grant would continue, as needed, to
provide bridge-funding until financial resources through health or HIV/AIDS-related
projects become available.     In addition, the program has introduced and facilitated
discussions on longer-term and predictable financing from an early point during the
project cycle and all partners are preparing themselves for the period after the project
closing date. Although there i s a risk that the Public-PrivatePartnerships(PPP) financed
under the program may not continue under the modalities supported under the TAP,
progress is beingmade in finding alternative modalities for continued financing.

29.    Discussions between the partners during RAP meetings and at country level have
been conducted and it seems clear that the Implementingpartners will all continue to
function, but the contribution to their financing from government resources is less certain
and varies from country to country. The dialogue is on-going and the outcomes o f the
PPP evaluations, undertaken in Burkina Faso and planned for Ghana and Mozambique,
will feed into the decisions about the hture o f the partnership arrangements. InGhana,
the existing contractual agreementbetween the Government andthe self-financing clinics
will be continued at least in the provision o f anti-retroviral and opportunistic infection
drugs with a maximum allowable 10% markup cost to patients. Lab services will be
maintained at no additional cost.      In Mozambique, the Implementing Partners have
already begun negotiations with alternative sources o f funding in order to maintain their
treatment services.




                                              10

                   APPENDIX A: ORIGINAL MONITORING INDICATORS

PDOIndicators                                                     Baseline                     Results thus far
 1. Nationally approved treatment policies,              Treatment policies and      All three countries regularly review
guidelines andprotocols are implemented                  protocols approved inthe    and adapt guidelines andprotocols,
                                                         three TAP countries.        and implement accordingly.
2. Treatment performance i s determined to be            Performance reviewed and    Performance reviewed and
technically competent (by WHO) andmanagerially           approved.                   approved.




                                                         supported sites
4. Comprehensive, cost-effective and equitable           NIA                         Achieved
treatment activities are managed by NGOs and
private sector partners
5. Decentralized treatment emphasizes rural low          NIA                         At varyingdegrees inthe three
income settings                                                                      countries
6. The Regional Advisory Panel meets semi-               No                          Yes
annually to discuss the TAP country results
7.WHO technical support results inrapid                  NIA                         NIA
adaptation o f tools by countries at different stages
of delivery treatment services



  Datain results column as reportedduringRAPmeetings, cumulativefor BurkinaFaso andper trimester by Ghanaand Mozambique
  Datain results columnare cumulative. DatareportedduringRAP meetings (BF and GH) or SPN mission (Moz)
  Data inresults columnrefer to monthlynumbers for the month of December2006. Re: WHO Database
  Ref:WHO Database
                                                             11


                         APPENDIX B: REVISEDMONITORINGINDICATORS



                        Inten.cntion               Results                           Indicators
                             area                                                                                       Targets

To contribute to the    Antiretroviral      Risks and benetits of     Household surveys conducted, baseline
evidence base        treatment, rcscarch antiretroviral treatment at     line data collected and analyzed
which wll inform                         household level evaluated
HIV/AIDS                                                                                                        Bythe end o fthe
programs on the
benefits, nsks, risk                                                                                            project at least two (2)

mitigation and                                                                                                  household surveys will
                                                                                                                have been conducted in
management
modalities of anti-                                                                                             two (2) countries

retroviral treatment
scale-up.

                        Antiretroviral    Quality of antiretroviral   Facility surveys conducted, baseline line    By the end ofthe
                     treatment, research     treatment at service            data collected and analyzed        project at least two (2)
                                          provider level evaluated                                               facility surveys will
                                                                                                                have been conducted in
                                                                                                                   two (2) countries
                        Antiretroviral   Behavioral implications of   Behavioral sentinel surveys conducted,       By the end ofthe
                     treatment, research     increased access to                 and data analyzed              project at least two (2)
                                           antiretroviral treatment                                               behavioral sentinel
                                                  evaluated                                                     surveys will have been
                                                                                                                 conducted in two (2)
                                                                                                                       countries
                        Antiretroviral   Findings of major research   Findings presentedand discussed during       Bythe end ofthe
                          treatment,     activities disseminated and     Regional Advisory Panel (RAP)           project the findings o f
                      disseminationof             discussed                           meetings                     at least eight (8)
                      research findings                                                                         research activities will
                                                                                                                 have been presented
                                                                                                                 and discussed during
                                                                                                                    RAPmeetings
                       Health systems      Functioning of public-        Public-private partnership (PPP)          Bythe end ofthe
                                         private partnerships under   evaluation studies conducted, and data    project at least two (2)
                                            the project evaluated                     analyzed                  PPP evaluation studies
                                                                                                                    will have been
                                                                                                                 conducted intwo (2)
                                                                                                                       countries
                        Antiretroviral     Social determinants of      Studies on the social determinants o f      Bythe end ofthe
                     treatment, research adherence to antiretroviral     antiretroviral treatment conducted     project at least one (1)
                                             treatment evaluated                                                 study will have been
                                                                                                                   conducted on the
                                                                                                                social determinants of
                                                                                                                     adherence to
                                                                                                                antiretroviral treatment
                          Voluntary          Number o fpersons          Annual number o fpeople accessing
                       Counseling and    utilizing CT services has   counseling and testing services inproject
                           Testing                increased                       supported centers             Country-specific targets


                        Prevention of    Transmission from mother     Annual number o f mother-infant pairs
                      Mother-to-Child         to child decreased       accessing PMTCT services inproject
                        Transmission                                              supported centers             Country-specific targets

                          (PMTCT)
                       Prophylaxis of     Decreasethe morbidity            Number of PLWHA receiving
                        opportunistic        from opportunistic        cotrimoxazoleprophylaxis inproject
                          infections      infections among HIV-           supported centers has increased       Country-specific targets

                                               infectedpersons
                       Antiretroviral      Proportion of eligible     Number o f eligible PLWHA under ARV
                          treatment      PLWHA on Antiretroviral      treatment inproject supported centers     Country-specific targets
                                            treatment increased                    has increased



                                                                   12


      APPENDIX C:DraftQuestions for the TAP LearningAgenda

1. Fullsocio-economic benefit oftreatment for patients andtheir household:
      0   numberoflife years savedfor patient;
      0   Costs to households (direct and indirect) o f treatment
          provisiordavailability;
      0   Impact on household economics - income and savings (either through
          additionalpayment for treatment or increased ability to be
          productive/unproductive);
      0   Impact on labor force participationo fpatient and householdmembers
          (reduced absenteeism); and
      0   Children's wellbeing (education, health, psychosocial, etc.) as result o f
          parent not dying.

2. What is the impact o f availabilityo ftreatment onpreventioninHIVpositive and
   negative people?
      0   Changesinknowledge and attitude towards C&T and ART
      0   Willingnessto be tested andVCT uptake?
      0   Impact on stigmatization?
      0   Impact on riskysexual behavior?
      0   Impact on HIV transmission andprevalence? Discordant couples?

3. How to avoid the development and spread o fresistance?
      0   Utilizationo f effective/efficient methods o f measuring resistance at
          national level?
      0   Determinants o f resistance to treatment? Biological, behavioral andhealth
          systems?(health workers beingtrained to use lSf    line regimens,
          possibilities o f drugstock-outs).
      0   Timeliness o fdetection.

4. Adherence
     0    Adherence tracking systems?
     0    What are the determinants o f adherence?
     0    What are the best models to promote/encourage adherence?
     0    What is the level o f involvement o fthe community? andbenefits and at
         what costs?

5. How are ART beneficiaries identified?How to encourage timely uptake?
     0   Who gets recruitedand why?How is it practicedandhow do we monitor
         recruitment choices?
     0   Are pro-active recruitments drives practicedto maximize the social
         impacthenefits e.g. parents, mothers, youth?
     0   Ifso, what arethe additionalbenefits, andhowaretheyrealized?
     0   What is the impact o f cost-recovery on patient uptake and adherence?


                                         13

6. What are the determinants o f andhow to encouragethe quality o fHIV/AIDS
service delivery?
           What are the determinants o f good andpoor treatment outcomes?
           Effect of different models o fART delivery and financing onpatient
           outcomes, efficiency and sustainability (optimization)?
            Community involvement (NGOs, CBOs, Associations o f PLWHAs) and
            support inprovision o fART?
           Impact o fhealthworker attitudes, behaviour, skills, incentives, etc.?
           Effectiveness o freferral systems?(Public-private partnerships)
           Efficiency o fprocurement/supply chain management systems nationally
           andlocally?
           Cost and cost effectiveness of clinical guidelines and care interventions
           (and technical questions nb 8)?

7. How to encourage capacity buildingto reinforcethe sustainabilityo fART
delivery?
           Identificationo fthe right mix innumber, skills, andcategory o f health
           workers? What does this do for quality and efficiency?
           Community involvement (NGOs,CBOs, Associations o fPLWHAs) and
           support inprovision o f ART?
           Identificationo f opportunities andbottlenecks to scaling up?
       e   Financing and co-financing arrangements for ART provision?
           Cost o f ART vis-a-vis the cost o f other public healthpriorities? Does it
           lead to distortions inprovisiono f other public healthissues or does it
           supplement it?

8. Technical issues needing further clarifications:
           General -morbidity and side effects or ART; mortality, treatment failure
           rates, frequency o f changes intreatment protocol?
           Differences inPMTCT practices and experiences and what do we learn
           from this?
           Pediatric ART -What are the most effective options learned from
           experience?
           ART andpregnancy
           ART and TB
           ART andnutrition
           Aggregated cost projections?




                                         14

             .-[J)
              C    .-[J)
                    C
                    8E
             Ua,   U
             E

   cm        Um    U




                               a,




                               a,     h

                               S      .-0
                                      C
a3                             U      U
0                              a,     C

                               .-C
                               5      2

                            a3
                          0




                            a3
                          0



I-
0


                          I-
                            O

I




         b
         0  b
            0
                            b
                            0       I-
                                    0



         I
         W
        0




L
h                         h h      h
7 s                        7   N    m


                     APPENDIX E: Reallocationof Grant Proceeds

la) Burkina Faso

The Burkina TAP component was approved by the Board on June 17,2004 for an amount
of SDR 12,500,000 equivalent. As o f November 29, 2007, SDR 10,350,000 (USD 15.51
million equivalent) had been disbursed. Project implementation started slowly due to a
delay in its effectiveness, but the project has made great strides and the original target of
7,000 patients receiving antiretroviral treatment by the end o f the project has been
surpassed and almost doubled (currently at 12,842 patients). The project also promotes
increased access to services related to the preventiono f transmission o f HIV from mother
to child (PMTCT). The TAP project has efficiently strengthened the partnership between
government and civil society and thus i s having a stronger impact at community level
with the greater involvement o f all inthe fight against HIV/AIDS.

Concurrent with the proposed restructuringo fthe TAP, the team would like to propose an
amendment to reallocate the remaining Grant proceeds among the existing categories to
ensure full completion of the activities. Although, there has been no substantive change
inproject activities, the amount and costing of certain activities were underestimated and
differ from those planned at project appraisal,      The remainder o f the Burkina TAP
finding will be used to treat these additional patients and bridge the gap for phasing
treatment activities into the Burkina Faso Health Sector Support and Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS Project (HSSMAP-P093987) with disbursement inOctober 2007.

The main purpose of the reallocation is to allow completion of programmed activities to
support the completion o f the established work program, particularly the provision o f
ARVs (requiring a reallocationo f SDR 1,705,000 for a new maximum of SDR 6,405,000
incategory "Goods") and consultant services to continue PMTCT activities (requiring a
reallocation o f SDR 1,200,000 for a new maximum o f SDR 2,240,000 in the category
"Consultant Services"). The reallocation funds come from the Unallocated Category and
cost savings realized from the Category "Sub-grants", which was originally estimated at
SDR 5 170,000, but should require only SDR 3,420,000 to complete project activities.
The efficient institutional arrangements, which encouraged the participation of other
donors, also led to some o f this cost saving. The entire reallocation i s estimated to be
around 25% o fthe total grant amount.

A table indicating theproposedreallocationis below:




                                             16

                                                                        Proposed
                                                    Initial allocation Reallocation in
             Category       CategoryDescription          inSDR              SDR
                1        Works                                210,000          160,000
                         Goods (Drugs and other
                2        Goods)                             4,700,000        6,405,000
                3        ConsultantServices                 1,040,000        2,240,000
                4        Sub-grants                         5,170,000        3,420,000
                5        Oneratinp costs                      275.000          275.000
                6        UnallocatedFunds                   1,105,000                 0
              Totals                                      12,500,000        12,500,000


(b) Ghana

The Ghana TAP component was approved by the Board on June 17,2004 for an amount
o f SDR 10,300,000 equivalent. As o f November 29, 2007, SDR 6,140,000 (USD 9.21
million equivalent) had been disbursed. The project has made great strides and the
number of patients receiving antiretroviral treatment has been steadily increasing. The
project also promotes increased access to services related to the prevention o f
transmission o f HIV from mother to child (PMTCT), home-based care and support, and
management and treatment o f opportunistic infections. The TAP project has efficiently
strengthened the partnership between government and civil society and thus i s having a
stronger impact at community levelwith the greater involvement o f all inthe fight against
HIV/AIDS.

Concurrent with the proposed restructuring o fthe TAP, the team would like to propose an
amendment to reallocate the remaining Grant proceeds among the existing categories to
ensure full completion o f the activities. Although, there has been no substantive change
inproject activities, the amount andcosting ofcertain activities were underestimated and
differ from those planned at project appraisal. The remainder o f the Ghana TAP funding
will be usedto treat additionalpatients, ensure that ImplementingPartners have sufficient
funds to complete treatment, care and support activities and bridge the gap for phasing
treatment activities into the Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program financing coordinated by
the Ghana AIDS Commission.

The mainpurpose o fthe reallocationis to allow completiono fprogrammed activitiesto
support the completiono f the established work program, particularly the provision o f
ARVs (requiringareallocationof SDR 2,500,000 for anew maximum o f SDR 5,400,000
inthe "Goods" category), andminor rehabilitation ofdistrict facilities so as to increase
coverage o f facilities providing treatment (requiringareallocationo f SDR 20,000 for a
newmaximum of SDR 90,000 inthe "Works" category). Although no disbursements in
this category have been made to date, the Ghana program has commitments to do
rehabilitations andrefurbishments indistrict andregional level health facilities.



                                              17

These activities have beendelayed since they were facility led. Inthe early part o f C Y
2007the M o Haskedthe estatemanagement unit o fthe GhanaHealthService to provide
backup support andthis has helpedgreatly, and completion o fthese activities are
considered feasible.

Similarly, no disbursements to date have beenmade inthe category 3 (Consultants'
Services), but the Ministryof health hasrequestedan expansion to include training and
workshops to facilitate scaling up. These funds are needed to train and retrain service
providers especially after the review andrevision o f Ghana's PMTCT guidelines andthe
plannedrevisiono fART guidelines inJanuary 2008 to especially reflect changes inthe
criteria for initiation o f antiretroviraltherapy.

Scaling up treatment activities within the health sector through increased and improved
supervision andmonitoring and evaluation o ftreatment activities at regional and district
health facilities (requiringa reallocationo f SDR 130,000 for a new maximum o f SDR
610,000 inthe "Operating Costs" category) is also included inthis reallocation. The
reallocation funds come from the Unallocated Category and cost savings realized from
the "Sub Grants" and "Consultancy services" categories, which were originally estimated
at SDR 4,410,000 and SDR 1,450,000 respectively, but shouldrequire only SDR
3,570,000 in"Sub Grants" and SDR 630,000 in"Consultancy services" to complete
project activities. Recognizingthe delays inthe implementationo f the Ghana project but
having resolvedmost o f the incountry obstacles especially as regards the new
procurement law inthe country the program i s onthe pathto 100%absorption. Indeed
there are commitmentsbeingprocessedwhich the M o Hintendto submit before the end
of the year.

The entire reallocationi s estimated to be around 20% ofthe total grant amount. A table
indicatingthe proposedreallocationi s below:


       Category      CategoryDescription       Initialallocation in Proposedreallocationin
                                                      SDR                  SDR

          1       Works                              70,000                90,000
          2       Goods, drugs andequipment         2,900,000            5,400,000

          3       Consultancyservices               1,450,000             630,000

          4       Sub Grants                        4,4 10,000           3,570,000

          5       OperatingCosts                    480,000               610,000

          6       Unallocated                       990,000                 0.0

       Totals                                      10,300,000            10,300,000       I



                                                18

IC)  Mozambique

The Mozambique TAP component was approved by the Board on June 17, 2004 for an
amount o f SDR 14,400,000 equivalent. As o f November 29, 2007, SDR 9,530,000 (USD
 14.33 million equivalent) had been disbursed. The project has made great strides and the
original number of patients receiving antiretroviral treatment bythe endo f the project has
been exceeded. The project also promotes increased access to services related to the
prevention o f transmission o f HIV from mother to child (PMTCT), home-based care and
support, and management and treatment o f opportunistic infections. The TAP project has
efficiently strengthenedthe partnership between government and civil society and thus i s
having a stronger impact at community level with the greater involvement o f all in the
fight against HIV/AIDS.

Concurrent with the proposed restructuringo f the TAP, the team would like to propose an
amendment to reallocate the remainingGrant proceeds amongthe existingcategories to
ensure fillcompletion o fthe activities. Although, there has been no substantive change
inprojectactivities, the amount andcosting ofcertainactivities were underestimatedand
differ from those planned at project appraisal. The remainder o fthe Mozambique TAP
fundingwill be usedto treat additionalpatients, ensure that ImplementingPartners have
sufficient funds to complete treatment, care and support activities.

There are US$7.6 millionstill to be disbursed.Projected disbursements are as follows.

CSE                                                       1.5
Pathfinder                                               0.7
HAI                                                      0.7
Consultants (health facility assessment)                 0.3
Reagents hrocurement intxocess)                          2.6
Reagents (new procurement to be done)                     1.8
Total                                                    7.6


The projected expenditures on ARV treatment by the three implementing partners
(Comunidade de Sant'Egidio, Pathfinder, and HealthAction International) were reviewed
in early December 2007 and found to be inline with their performance duringprevious
years. The contracting o f consultants for the health facility assessment i s currently being
initiated. The procurement o f US2.6 o f reagents i s well advanced. This leaves a
balance o f US$1.8 million o f reagents to be procured between now and September 2008,
which i s quite feasible.

The main purpose of the reallocation is to allow completion o f programmed activities to
support the completion o f the established work program, particularly the provision o f
ARVs (requiringa reallocationo f SDR 2,235,000 for a new maximum o f SDR 5,750,000
inthe "Goods" category) and scaling up activities of Implementing Partners (requiring a
reallocation o f SDR 1,400,000 for a new maximum o f SDR 8,500,000 in the "Sub
                                            19

Grants" category). The reallocation funds come from the UnallocatedCategory and cost
savings realized from the "Operating Costs" and "Works" categories, which were
originally estimated at SDR 830,000 and S 345,000 respectively, but should require only
SDR 50,000 in "Operating Costs" to complete project activities. The entire reallocation
i s estimated to be around 25% o f the total grant amount. The TAP grant for Mozambique
included about US$1.2 million for civil works in Schedule 1. However, Schedule 2
provides for rehabilitating health facilities and expanding the number o f VCT and ante-
natal sites under sub-mants. Therefore eliminatingthe line "works" from Schedule 1now
makes the DGA consistent with this arrangement.

A table indicatingtheproposedreallocationis below:

        Category    Category Description    Initialallocation in Proposedreallocationin
                                                   SDR                   SDR
           1     Works                           830,000                 0.0

           2     Goods, drugs andequipment       3,515,000            5,450,000

           3     Consultant services             1,240,000             400,000

           4     Subgrants                       7,100,000            8,500,000

           5     Operatingcosts                  345,000                50,000

           6     Unallocated                     1,370,000               0.0

        Totals                                  14,400,000            14,400,000




The WHO component o f the TAP program was approved by the Board on June 17,2004
for an amount o f SDR 2,800,000 equivalent.           The WHO DGA became effective on
March 25, 2005 and was scheduled to close on September 30, 2007, now extended to
September 30, 2008.        The project implementation is satisfactory and there are no
outstanding audit reports for WHO.

As o f November 29, 2007, SDR 860,000 (30.7 percent o f the total grant amount) of the
allocated resources to WHO had been disbursed. The start up o f the project was slow
mainly due to a delay inits effectiveness, but good progress has been made in scaling up
the technical support to the country programs and WHO technical officers have been
posted in all countries for this purpose.       Following the proposed restructuring and
increased attention to the learning aspects o f the program, WHO will conduct additional
studies on treatment outcomes and cost projections, and increase the efforts to document
the lessons learned under the program. These activities are likely to significantly improve
the disbursement rate o f the grant to WHO. The remainder o f the resources under the
grant will primarily be used to continue WHO'S technical support to the TAP countries,
especially inthe areas o f Monitoring and Evaluation, and Quality Assurance.



                                             20

The main purpose o f the reallocation is to allow full completion o f the established work
program, particularly with regard to the operating expenses related to the continued
technical support (amount o f SDR 430,000 reallocated to category "Operating Costs").
Although, there has been no substantive change in project activities, the amount and
costing of certain activities were underestimated and differ from those planned at project
appraisal.  The reallocated funds come mainly from the unallocated Category (SDR
330,000), and a small amount (SDR 100,000) comes from the category "Consultants,
Workshops and Training).      All other categories for the WHO Grant Agreement have
adequate finding to implement activities to fulfill the revised PDO. Your approval is
required because allocations in one expenditure category have been exhausted while
significant funds remain in other disbursement categories. The proposed re-allocation
affects about 15% o f the total grant amount.
A table indicating the proposedreallocationis below:


                                              Initialallocation      Proposed
          Category   Category Description          inSDR        ReallocationinSDR

          1          Goods & Equipment                  90,000               90,000

                     Consultant Workshops &
          2          Training                        2,070,000            1,970,000

          3          Operatingcosts                    310 000              740,000

          4          Unallocated                       330,000                    0

          Totals                                     2,800,000            2,800,000




                                            21

The World Bank                                                    1818 HStreet N.W.              (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT               Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS

                                                                                                          DRAFT
                                                                                                   April 23,2008
           HisExcellency JeanBaptisteCompaore
           Minister o f Finance andBudget
           MinistryofFinanceandBudget
           03 BP 7008
           Ouagadougou 03
           Burkina Faso


           Excellency:


                        BURKINA FASO: RegionalHIV/AIDS Treatment Acceleration Project
                                                  (Grant No. H1060 BUR)
                                    Amendment to Development Grant Apreement

                    We refer to the Development Grant Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 14, 2004,
           between Burkina Faso (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (the
           Association) for the above mentioned Project. We also refer to your letter dated October 8, 2007,
           requestingspecific amendments to the Agreement.

                    We are pleased to informyou that the Association agrees to your request andproposes to
           amend the Agreement inrespect o f the following provisions:

            1.      The existing table 1 o f Schedule 1 to the Agreement i s deleted in its entirety and i s
           replaced with the Annex 1attached to this letter.

           2.       Firstparagraphof Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to readas follows:

                    "The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Recipient to contribute to the evidence base
                    which will inform HIV/AIDS programs on the benefits, risks, risk mitigation and
                    management modalities o f anti-retroviral treatment scale-up."

           3.       The Supplemental Letter No. 2 (Performance Indicators for Project Monitoring and
           Evaluation), dated July 14, 2004, signed by the Recipient i s fully cancelled along with its
           attachment.

           4.       A new Schedule 6 (Performance Indicators) is added at the end o f Schedule 5 to read as
           shown inAnnex 2 to this Amendment Letter.

                    In all respects, other than as set forth above, the provisions of the Agreement shall
           continue to apply with full force and effect.




                                                              22

        Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf o f the Recipient, by
countersigning and dating the form o f confirmation on the two original copies o f this
amendment letter and returning one countersigned original to the Association. Upon receipt
by the Association of a copy o f the countersigned amendment letter, the amendment letter
shall become effective as of the date o f countersignature.


                                              Sincerely,

                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                              Ishac Diwan
                                  Country Director for Burkina Faso
                                             Africa Region

AGREED:

BURKINA FASO



By:
        Authorized Representative

Name:

Date:




                                                 23

                                                                                      Annex 1

                                     "SCHEDULE 1
                           Withdrawalof the Proceedsof the Grant

A.     General

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds o f
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage o f
expenditures for items so to be financed ineachCategory:

                                        Amount of the
                                       Grant Allocated                Yoof
                                         (Expressed in             Expenditures
      Category                         SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed

(1)   Works                                   160,000          100%

(2)   Goods, drugs and                      6,405,000          100%
      supplies

(3)   Consultants'                          2,240,000          100%
      services andtraining

(4)   Sub-Grants                            3,420,000          100% o f amounts
                                                              disbursed

(5)   Operating Costs                         275,000          100%

(6)   Unallocated                                   0


            TOTAL,                        12,500,000"




                                               24


                                                                                  h e x 2

                        Schedule6 (Performance Indicators)

1. Household surveys conducted, baseline line data collected and analyzed;

2. Facility surveys conducted, baseline line data collected and analyzed;

3.  Behavioral sentinel surveys conducted, and data analyzed;

4. Findingspresented and discussed duringRegional Advisory Panel (RAP) meetings;

5. Public-private partnership (PPP) evaluation studies conducted, and data analyzed;

6. Studies on the social determinants o f antiretroviral treatment conducted;

7. Annual number o f people accessing counseling and testing services inproject supported
    centers;

8. Annual number o f mother-infant pairs accessing PMTCT services inproject supported
    centers;

9. Number o f PLWHA receiving cotrimoxazole prophylaxis inproject supported centers
    has increased; and

10. Number of eligible PLWHA under ARV treatment inproject supported centers
    has increased




                                          25


The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W.             (202)473-1000
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT               Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               USA.                           Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                                  April 23,2008
            His Excellency Kwadwo Baah-Wiredu
            Minister o f Finance and Economic Planning
            MinistryofFinance andEconomic Planning
            Accra
            Republic o f Ghana

            Excellency:


                              GHANA:RegionalHIV/AIDSTreatmentAccelerationProject
                                                 (GrantNo. H1050 GH)
                                    Amendmentto DevelopmentGrantAgreement


                    We refer to the Development Grant Agreement (the Agreement), dated July 14, 2004,
            between the Republic o f Ghana (the Recipient) and the International Development Association
            (the Association) for the above mentionedProject. We also refer to your letters dated
            March 30 and December 14,2007, requestingspecific amendments to the Agreement.

                    We are pleased to informyou that the Association agrees to your request and proposes to
            amend the Agreement inrespect o f the following provisions:

            1.      The existing table 1 o f Schedule 1 to the Agreement i s deleted in its entirety and i s
            replaced with the Annex 1attached to this letter.

            2.      Firstparagraphof Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to readas follows:

                    "The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Recipient to contribute to the evidence base
                    which will inform HN/AIDS programs on the benefits, risks, risk mitigation and
                    management modalities o f anti-retroviral treatment scale-up."

            3.      The Supplemental Letter No. 2 (Performance Indicators for Project Monitoring and
            Evaluation), dated July 14, 2004, signed by the Recipient i s fully cancelled along with its
            attachment.

           4.      A new Schedule 6 (Performance Indicators) i s added at the end o f Schedule 5 to read as
            shown inthe Annex 2 to this Amendment Letter.

                    In all respects, other than as set forth above, the provisions of the Agreement shall
            continue to apply with full force and effect.




                                                              26

        Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf o f the Recipient, by
countersigning and dating the form o f confirmation on the two original copies o f this
amendment letter and returning one countersigned original to the Association. Upon receipt
by the Association of a copy of the countersigned amendment letter, the amendment letter
shall become effective as o f the date o f countersignature.


                                               Sincerely,

                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                              Ishac Diwan
                                      Country Director for Ghana
                                              Africa Region

AGREED:

REPUBLICOF GHANA



By:
        Authorized Representative

Name:

Date:




                                                 27

                                                                Annex 1




                        "Amount of the
                        Grant Allocated         % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Categorv           SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed

(1) Works                      90,000     100%of foreign
                                          expenditures and
                                          of local expenditures

(2) Goods, drugs and        5,400,000     100%o f foreign
    equipment                             expenditures and 90%
                                          of local expenditures



(3) Consultants'              630,000     90%
    services

(4) Sub-Grants              3,570,000     100% of amounts
                                          disbursed

(5) Operating Costs                       90%

(6) Unallocated

            TOTAL         10.300,OOO"




                                28


                                                                                   Annex 2

                        Schedule 6 (Performance Indicators)

1. Household surveys conducted, baseline line data collected and analyzed;

2. Facility surveys conducted, baseline line data collected and analyzed;

3.  Behavioral sentinel surveys conducted, and data analyzed;

4. Findingspresented and discussed during Regional Advisory Panel (RAP) meetings;

5.  Public-private partnership (PPP) evaluation studies conducted, and data analyzed;

6. Studies on the social determinants o f antiretroviral treatment conducted;

7   Annual number o fpeople accessing counseling and testingservices inproject supported
    centers;

8. Annual number of mother-infant pairs accessing PMTCT services inproject supported
    centers;

9. Number o f PLWHA receiving cotrimoxazole prophylaxis inproject supported centers
    has increased; and

10. Number o f eligiblePLWHAunder ARV treatment inproject supported centers has
    increased.




                                          29

