Page  1
IDA GRANT NUMBER H105 GH 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Regional HIV/AIDS Treatment Acceleration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated                                                          , 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H105 GH 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                       , 2004, between REPUBLIC OF 
GHANA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS  (A) the Association has undertaken to support the Treatment 
Acceleration Program (the Program) in Burkina Faso, Republic of Ghana and Republic of 
Mozambique so as to test the feasibility of scaling-up existing HIV/AIDS treatment 
initiatives in Africa, and to promote in-country and cross-country learning with the 
support of the World Health Organization and United Nations Economic Commission for 
Africa; 
(B)  
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project which forms part of the Program; 
(C)  
by an agreement dated November 23, 2001, the Association agreed to 
make available to the Recipient funds for the implementation of the Ghana AIDS 
Response Project within the framework of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the 
Africa Region and the Recipient desires to scale-up its HIV/AIDS response by taking part 
in the Program; 
(D)  
the Association has entered into an agreement with the World Health 
Organization dated                            , 2004 (the WHO Agreement), under which the 
Association has agreed to provide a grant to assist in the financing of part of the Program, 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the WHO Agreement; 
(E) 
the Association has also entered into an agreement with the United 
Nations Organization (represented by the United Nations Economic Commission for 
Africa) (hereinafter referred to as UNECA) dated                   , 2004 (the UNECA 
Agreement), under which the Association has agreed to provide a grant to assist in the 
financing of part of the Program, on the terms and conditions set forth in the UNECA 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“ART” means Anti-Retro Viral Therapy; 
(b) 
“ARV” means Anti-Retro Viral; 
(c) 
“BCC” means Behavior Change Communication; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Environmental 
Management Plan dated November 5, 2002,  satisfactory to the Association, describing 
measures for mitigating the potential environmental impact of hazardous and other 
wastes produced under the Project as well as small civil works, as the same may be 
updated from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Recipient starting 
January 1 and ending December 31, each calendar year;
 
(i) 
“Five Elements of Treatment and Care” means: (i) VCT; (ii) home based 
patient care and family support; (iii) treatment of opportunistic infections; (iv) ART; and 
(v) PMTCT and PMTCT-Plus (as such terms are hereinafter defined); 
(j) 
“Ghana AIDS Commission” or “GAC” means the commission 
established on September 23, 2000, pursuant to the Cabinet approval of May 31, 2000, 
and referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-deficiency Virus/Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
(l) 
“Implementing Partner” means a non-governmental organization or 
private sector entity that has been selected by the Recipient to take part in the Project and 
with whom MOH has entered into a Sub-Grant Agreement in accordance with 
paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health or any successor 
thereto; 
(n) 
“NACP” means the Recipient’s National AIDS/STI Control Program 
established and operating within MOH and referred to in paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
(o) 
“PMTCT” means Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission; 
(p) 
“PMTCT-Plus” means Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission plus 
other interventions, including family centered care linked to the local community, 
continuity of care drawing on a multi-disciplinary team of providers and long term 
retention of patients, ART for the mother and infected infant and family members, 
psychosocial support and treatment of STIs, and interventions to integrate treatment 
adherence with other available community programs such as family planning and 
reproductive health; 
(q) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual, to 
be adopted in accordance with Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, giving details of 
guidelines and procedures agreed with the Association for the implementation, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of the Project, and the procurement 
procedures and guidelines for Sub-Projects, as same may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Operational Manual; 
(r) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
May 14, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods or such periods of Project 
implementation, as may be agreed with the Association; 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infection; 
(v) 
“Sub-Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, to an Implementing 
Partner out of the proceeds of the Grant to finance a Sub-Project; 
(w) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient, through MOH, and an Implementing Partner, pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) 
and paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sub-Grant Agreement; 
(x) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Part A of the Project, in respect 
of which a Sub-Grant has been, or may be, provided; and 
(y) 
“VCT” means Voluntary Counseling and Testing. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 10,300,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (a) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient 
on account of withdrawals made under a Sub-Grant Agreement to meet the reasonable 
costs of goods, works and services required for a Sub-Project, in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; (b) for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007,  or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MOH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Project Operational Manual and the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as the said provisions shall be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
Page  7
-
6
-
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 
3.04. 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association, WHO, and UNECA, to visit any part of its territory 
for purposes related to the Grant, and shall cooperate with such representatives in such 
manner as to facilitate the carrying out by the Association, WHO, and UNECA, of their 
respective obligations under the Program, in line with current arrangements between 
MOH and its donor partners. 
Section 3.05. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Recipient and the Association, 
no expenditures required for a Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, unless the Recipient shall have carried out, in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan, an environmental assessment for the Sub-Project, and 
shall have undertaken processes and activities to mitigate any negative environmental 
impacts of such Sub-Project in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan, 
together with evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the Sub-Project shall not 
involve any involuntary resettlement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
Page  8
-
7
-
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph D of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than ninety 
(90) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than ninety (90) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Operational Manual in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and 
(b)  
the Recipient has entered into Sub-Grant Agreements with at least two 
Implementing Partners in form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
 
P. O. Box M.40 
 
Accra 
 
Ghana 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
ECONOMICON   2205 
MIFAEPGH 233-21-667069 
 
233-21-663854 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works  
70,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 90%  
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods, drugs and  
2,900,000 
100% of foreign  
 
equipment 
 
expenditures and 90%  
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 1,450,000 
90% 
 services 
 
 
(4) 
Sub-Grants 
4,410,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
480,000 
90% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
990,000 
 
 
========
TOTAL 10,300,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, travel 
expenditures and other travel-related allowances; equipment rental and maintenance; 
vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office rental and maintenance, materials and 
supplies; utilities and communications' expenses; field supervision costs and bank 
charges, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 100,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after May 13, 2004; 
(b) 
the first payment to each Implementing Partner under Category 4 of the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the Association has received 
through the Recipient, a satisfactory annual program proposal from the Implementing 
Partner; and  
(c) 
all subsequent payments to each Implementing Partner under Category 4 
of the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless the Association has 
received through the Recipient acceptable financial and implementation reports for the 
previous quarter from the Implementing Partner. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e)  all operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Page  14
-
13
-
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
Page  15
-
14
-
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  17
-
16
-
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to scale-up and implement 
comprehensive treatment programs for persons living with HIV/AIDS by providing a 
range of quality services which are effective, affordable and equitable. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Scaling-Up HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment
Provision of Sub-Grants to support the enhancement and expansion of the Five 
Elements of Treatment and Care provided by Implementing Partners including: 
(a) rehabilitating health facilities and expanding the number of VCT and ante-natal sites; 
(b) carrying out of BCC; (c) provision of training to community counselors, birth 
attendants, and staff of the Implementing Partners; (d) provision of nutrition education; 
(e) strengthening of appropriate ambulatory care; (f) acquisition of appropriate diagnostic 
equipment and materials,  pharmaceutical drugs and supplies; (g) management of STIs; 
(h) provision of psychosocial support; and (i) strengthening community linkages. 
Part B
:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity of MOH
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MOH for the expansion of HIV/AIDS care and 
treatment, through: (a) the provision of technical advisory services and training for the 
development and implementation of treatment policy and the accreditation and approval 
of Implementing Partners and their treatment sites; (b) the provision of training to health 
workers; (c) the provision of training on patient monitoring and tracking; (d) carrying out 
or facilitating the carrying out of operational research; (e) conducting of workshops and 
meetings; and (f) acquisition of equipment. 
2. 
Development and implementation of plans for the expansion of physical 
infrastructure, drug requirements and human resource development, including: (a) 
carrying out of limited civil works; (b) acquisition of extensive diagnostic and laboratory 
material and equipment; (c) provision of technical assistance and training; and 
(d) carrying out of supervision activities. 
3. 
Carrying out of feasibility studies for improved patient tracking and 
implementing the recommendations from such studies. 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services, training and material support to 
facilitate the financial management, auditing, supervision and monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project. 
Page  20
-
19
-
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consult
ants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Grants” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
ARV’s and other related products which the 
Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
3. Shopping
.
Works and goods (other than ARV’s and other related products) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and ARV’s and other related 
products estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  22
-
21
-
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method with the prior approval of the Association. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods including drugs may be procured 
directly from UNICEF, WHO and other specialized United Nations agencies in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
6. Commercial 
Practices
.
Goods and works for Sub-Grants made to Implementing 
Partners under Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices as described in the Project Operational Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to the prior approval of the 
Association. 
Page  23
-
22
-
5. 
Selection of UN Agencies and Nongovernmental Organizations as Consultants. 
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs 3.15 and 3.16 
of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.15 and 3.16 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Commercial 
Practices
.
Services under Sub-Grants made to Implementing 
Partners under Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices as described in the Project Operational Manual. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (c) each contract for 
goods and works procured under Direct Contracting; (d) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; (e) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000
 
or more; and (f) each contract for services procured under Single 
Source Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
A.  
Institutional Arrangements
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain the Ghana AIDS Commission (GAC), comprising 
of high level representatives of selected ministries of the Recipient, representatives of 
non-governmental organizations, community groups and other stakeholders, to be 
responsible for the definition of broad priorities, coordination and monitoring and 
evaluation of the performance of the Recipient’s multisectoral HIV/AIDS response 
efforts. 
2. 
The Recipient shall vest in MOH the overall responsibility for coordinating the 
implementation of the Project. MOH shall be supported in the carrying out of its 
responsibilities under the Project by National AIDS/STI Control Program (NACP). 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain NACP within MOH, whose mandate, terms of 
reference and composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for 
coordination of the day-to-day execution of the Project, including: (a) management of 
procurement and disbursement activities; (b) reviewing and approving Sub-Grant 
proposals; (c) coordinating private/public partnerships in HIV/AIDS care; (d) 
consolidation of annual work programs and budgets; (e) preparation and production of 
quarterly and annual progress reports and financial statements; (f) receiving, reviewing 
and approving progress reports and requests for funds from Implementing Partners; (g) 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (h) liaising with UNECA and WHO for the 
carrying out of learning activities under the Program; and (i) providing technical support 
to Implementing Partners. NACP shall be guided in the carrying out of its functions 
under the Project by committees, which shall include a national advisory committee and a 
technical working group on ARV therapy. 
B.  
Project Operational Manual 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set forth 
in the Project Operational Manual, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the 
opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
C. Sub-Grants
1. 
Eligibility Criteria for Implementing Partners
Implementing Partners shall be selected to carry out activities related to 
HIV/AIDS treatment and care in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and 
guidelines set forth in the Project Operational Manual and in the annex to this Schedule 4. 
Page  25
-
24
-
2.  
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Grant Agreements
(a) 
The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-Projects shall be prepared, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance 
with the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the 
Project Operational Manual and the Environmental Management Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, through MOH, enter into agreements with 
Implementing Partners, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include the following: 
(i)  
the obligation of the Implementing Partner: (A) to carry out the 
Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound administrative financial, environmental and public 
health standards; and (B) to maintain adequate records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures relating to the Sub-Project; 
(ii) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall: (A) be procured in 
accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operational 
Manual; and (B) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-Project; and 
(iii) 
the Recipient reserves the right to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works, sites, plants and construction included in the Sub-Project, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(B) obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation 
and financial conditions of the Implementing Partner; and (C) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing Partner to use 
the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon the failure by the 
Implementing Partner to perform any of its obligations under the 
Sub-Grant Agreement. 
 
D. 
Reports and Reviews
The Recipient shall: 
Page  26
-
25
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about eighteen (18) months after the effectiveness date, a 
report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, no later than three (3) months after 
submission, or such later date as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Annex to Schedule 4 
Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Implementing Partners 
The following selection criteria shall apply to all Implementing Partners to qualify for 
Sub-Grants, in a manner satisfactory to the Association: 
A. Institutional 
Requirements 
·
Legal entity operating within the territory of the Recipient; 
·
clear management structure and satisfactory internal controls; 
·
located in the Recipient’s territory with field offices (preferred) to provide 
coverage to an appropriate numbers of population clusters (or geographic areas); 
·
access to means of communications; 
·
access to professional and trained staff including doctors, nurses and technicians 
(on HIV/AIDS-STI); 
·
access to administrative and project management staff including financial and 
procurement management; 
·
demonstrative working partnership with the Ministry of Health, private sector 
clinics and hospitals and/or other non-governmental organizations; and 
·
implemented (or implementing) Sub-Projects financed by other donors.  
B.  
Implementation requirements 
·
Can produce most recent annual report, financial statements and/or latest 
financial audit report; 
·
demonstrated capacity of proper records keeping (financial and other); 
·
willing to sign performance-based contract with Ministry of Health that would 
trigger disbursement of fund advances; 
·
clear field supervision, monitoring and evaluation strategy for the scaling up of 
treatment; 
·
has Forms and formats relevant to patient monitoring; 
·
can produce implementation action plans with associated cost estimates; and 
Page  28
-
27
-
·
preferably has the capacity to receive drugs from a central location and distribute 
to the treatment sites.  
C. 
HIV/AIDS Treatment Specific Requirements 
·
Willingness and a clear strategy for rapidly scaling up their treatment programs; 
·
leadership and initiative in expanding quality HIV care and services which will 
limit implementation delays and enable the program to build on existing 
resources and the sources provided by the Project; 
·
flexibility and capacity to integrate ARV therapy into existing HIV/AIDS 
primary care and provide the continuum of treatment and care.  This approach 
represents an effective and replicable model of ARV therapy in resource-limited 
settings that addresses HIV/AIDS as a chronic disease requiring continuous and 
appropriate care, support, and other services; 
·
can leverage existing in-country resources and expertise.  This is  critical in 
supporting site-driven programs and maximizing coordination of efforts on a 
local and national scale; increasing utilization of available resources and 
expertise; and building in-country capacity for scaling-up in the future; 
·
agreement on clear protocols  for ARV eligibility, screening criteria; regimens, 
clinical and laboratory monitoring and follow-up, adherence, management of side 
effects, treatment interruptions and failures; 
·
developed (or developing) networks with community based organizations, 
including those for people living with AIDS, and community leaders and 
stakeholders; and  
·
practicing (or developing) a system in place for tracking patients, medical records 
and charting for clinical care and laboratory.  
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
Page  29
-
28
-
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a)(ii) and 6.02 (c)(i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue to 
read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
Page  30
-
29
-
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 
(a)(ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant agreement or any development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c)(i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”
 
