Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6008 
Operation Name 
Burundi-Fourth Economic Reform Support Grant - ERSG IV 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (60%); General industry and 
trade sector (30%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P117510 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 27, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 27, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
December 7, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In the ten years since the Arusha Agreement, Burundi has experienced both great strides 
and major setbacks on the road to lasting peace
.
After the establishment of a transitional 
government in 2002, a new constitution was approved in February 2005, Presidential and 
Parliamentary elections were held in August 2005 and the new government took office in 
September of the same year. In September 2006, a cease-fire accord was reached with the last 
hold-out rebel movement, the FNL-PALIPEHUTU faction. Since this time the political situation 
has remained fragile and subject to frequent political infighting, leading to occasional political 
deadlock, as was the case in periods of 2007 and 2008.  Relations with the FNL-PALIPEHUTU 
have until recently remained problematic. Armed skirmishes with the FNL-PALIPEHUTU flared 
in mid-April 2008 ahead of negotiations in May which eventually led to the signature of a new 
cease-
fire. The Government’s continued dialogue with the group has led to the beginning of its 
demobilization and registration, under the name FNL, as a political party.  
 
Preparations for the presidential and legislative elections dominated the political scene in 
2010
.
The electoral season began with local council elections in May 2010, and presidential 
elections in late June 2010.  An election in the National Assembly (lower chamber) and in the 
Senate (upper chamber) followed in late July 2010. The 
last in a string of elections that 
started in May,
 grassroots elections (locally known as “hill council polls”), was held in 
September 2010. Voter registration began in late January 2010 and more than 3.55 million voters 
were registered. These elections, the second after the end of the last civil strife, were a test of the 
strength of the institutions and stability of the Burundi democracy. In part due to the recent 
emergence of the former rebel movement FNL as a political party, these elections were expected 
Page  2
to be more competitive than those of 2005, which led to election of the first post-transition 
government following more than a decade of civil conflict.
While the elections were not free from controversy, observers commended the authorities’ 
good preparation and organization of the polls. 
The ruling CNDD-FDD carried 64 percent of 
the vote in the local council elections, in which 90 percent of registered voters - more than 3 
million people - cast ballots. After the election, opposition parties complained of irregularities 
and announced a boycott of the presidential elections, leaving the incumbent president as the sole 
candidate.  The National Independent Electoral Commission (CENI) and the European Union 
(EU) observers concluded that despite a few "irregularities", the election was conducted 
consistent with international standards and that it is unlikely that the aforementioned 
irregularities led to a change in the outcome of the election.  Presidential elections were held on 
June 28, 2010, with Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza as the sole candidate who claimed about 92 percent 
of the votes cast.
2
The controversies sparked during the electoral period have led to some cases of violence 
and an increased risk of a return to conflict. 
Throughout this series of elections, a number of 
grenade attacks were recorded, the security forces have been accused to torture of opposition 
members, and few political assassinations of members of the ruling party have been also 
reported.  Following the inauguration of Mr. Nkurunziza on August 26, 2010, for a new 5-year 
term as President, the consortium of opposition parties, Democratic Alliance for Change (ADC), 
that boycotted the elections, announced that they will work during the second term as a non-
parliamentarian opposition teaming up with the civil society and the media to denounce cases of 
bad governance. 
In this divisive environment, the ruling party has made some efforts to reach out to other 
parties
.
The President’s inaugural speech outlined his vision to intensify efforts to improve 
infrastructure and agriculture and to take a tough stance on the fight against corruption. He 
appointed the First and Second Vice Presidents as well as a government of 21 Ministers (reduced 
from 26) including nine female Ministers (43 percent) within a week. While the ruling party 
gained the majority in the parliamentary elections, the two opposition parties who did not 
boycott the polls gained representation.  The authorities further named members from these two 
parties to their government.  While this step can only be seen as preliminary, it indicates that the 
newly formed government is willing to include other groups in the decision making process.   
In this somewhat volatile climate, the proposed DPO attempts to consolidate on-going reforms 
over the electoral period to ensure that important progress made in recent years is not reversed. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
As the first in a new series of two development policy operations (DPOs), ERSG IV will aim to 
consolidate many of the reforms begun in the last series (ERSG II and ERSG III), ERSG IV will 
1
Since its registration as a political party, the FNL has experienced some fragmentation, which may have limited its 
ability to mobilize support for elections. This situation with the former leader of FNL may need to be monitored as if 
a
weakened or excluded FNL may look outside the electoral process to gain influence. However, regional leaders 
(e.g., Kenya, and Tanzania), have already signaled to all that a return to violence will not be tolerated by the region.  
2
The CENI estimated the turnout for the presidential elections at 77 percent. 
Page  3
be focused broadly on: (i) improving budget credibility, planning and controls (PFM); and (ii) 
promoting private sector development (PSD). The PFM component of ERSG IV has three main 
sub-components: (a) strengthening strategic and budget planning to improve the quality of public 
spending; (b) reinforcing PFM systems; and (c) improving the management of the public wage 
bill.  The PSD component of ERSG IV has three main sub-components: (a) improving the legal 
and regulatory framework for private sector development; (b) promoting private investment 
through improvements in the economic infrastructure; and (c) restructuring the export crop 
sector. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Budget support remains a key tool to support the implementation of the Burundian 
Authorities’ program for poverty reduction and economic growth.
 
Following almost 
thirteen years of civil war, Burundi requires significant support to rebuild its faltering 
infrastructure and to revive the provision of basic public services.  Due to its narrow export base 
and relatively modest capacity to mobilize domestic revenues, Burundi must minimize its use of 
public debt to finance government expenditure, a gap which must be filled with donor financing 
including budget support. At present, budget support accounts for about one third of total official 
development assistance (ODA) to the country and is expected to account for 25-30 percent of 
total IDA financing during the FY09-FY12 period (CAS of July 2008). Budget support is a 
powerful instrument of policy reform, but one of the weaknesses of donor-financed budget 
support in Burundi 
–
and in other low-income countries – is its lack of predictability. The 
programmatic approach of the ERSG series (IV and V) is expected to mitigate that risk, as was 
the case for the first programmatic series (ERSG II-III).  
After the successful conclusion of the first set of programmatic development policy 
operations (ERSG II and III), the Bank has decided to maintain a programmatic approach 
to development policy financing in Burundi
.
Despite severe political, institutional, and 
capacity constraints, the government made significant progress toward implementing its reform 
agenda. Most of these reforms need to be consolidated and extended with appropriate 
adjustments based on experience. One of the objectives of the programmatic approach is to 
encourage the government to vigorously pursue the ongoing reform process and to forcefully 
move toward full implementation of a comprehensive economic and public finance management 
reform program to be completed over several years.  The preparation of this new programmatic 
series coincided with the 2010 elections campaign. Mindful of that, the first operation in this 
series attempts to ensure the continuity of reforms begun mostly during the prior series of DPOs, 
while the next operation in the series will attempt to expand the reform program eventually to 
include new areas of reform. 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Page  4
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements for this operation will continue to rely on 
government arrangements with the aim of strengthening government capacity and 
institutions
,
with particular attention to the regularity and quality of the M&E process and its 
outcomes. Sector or subject specific technical units who work on the details of the reform 
program (including prior actions and triggers) feed information to the Coordinating Technical 
Unit, which includes a representative from REFES. REFES is the technical committee that 
follows up the progress in the implementation of the PRSP as well as the global reform programs 
of the State, provides regular progress reports to national policy makers (such as the second vice 
presidency and the inter-ministerial committee for the follow up of the reforms located at the 
second vice presidency), and seek policy guidance.  Strengthening the institutional and technical 
capacity of REFES would endow both the government and donors with a better M&E system. 
The Coordinating Technical Unit in turn reports to the Policy Committee, mandated by the 
Second Vice-President and presided by the Minister of Finance. This Policy Committee includes 
representation by different relevant ministries and representation by the second Vice-Presidency. 
This committee has supervised the implementation of the economic reforms included in the first 
ERSG programmatic series (II-III) and will supervise the development and implementation of 
the ERSG IV reform program. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Despite the commitment of the government, which remains unequivocally strong, including 
at the highest level, the years of civil conflict have accentuated the weak technical capacity 
and sub-optimal institutional and organizational arrangements
.
As a result, the expected 
outcomes of the proposed ERSG IV are subject to a number of risks. These risks are mitigated to 
a
large extent by several factors,
3
including: (i) the design of the proposed operation; (ii) the 
strength of the government’s ownership and commitment, affirmed at the highest level, to 
implement the proposed measures and the government’s resolve to advance its reform agenda; 
(iii) an active and continuous policy dialogue between the Bank and the government; and (iv) a 
close collaboration between donors to provide technical assistance and ensure full financing of 
the reform program. 
 
More specifically, the main risks to the program, along with identified mitigation measures, are:  
 
·
On-going post-election transition might delay or derail progress on reforms
.
The 
proposed operation attempts to mitigate this risk by: (i) focusing the first operation of the 
series on maintaining continuity of ongoing reforms (i.e. PFM); (ii) negotiating the new 
operation with the new government to build consensus for the series of reforms; and (iii) 
3
As a result of the risks identified, the Bank faces reputational risks in supporting programs in post-conflict 
countries, especially as regards political instability that leads to substantial delays in reform implementation and 
governance issues. However, it should be noted that in the context of Burundi, the cost of the Bank not getting 
involved will be higher than these reputational risks. To mitigate these risks, the team will work closely with the 
authorities to ensure that: (i) simplified and realistic measures are included in the program; (ii) governance measures 
are implemented, especially in public finance management; and (iii) the locomotives of growth are started at the 
earliest. 
Page  5
maintaining dialogue with civil society and the private sector to ensure demand-side 
pressure. 
·
Burundi’s ability to maintain macroeconomic stability might be disrupted by weak 
performance in the agricultural sector or external shocks
.
The country’s narrow 
export base and low revenue mobilization creates a risk for future debt distress.  Further, 
many of the public enterprises are in poor financial shape creating risks of direct and 
contingent liabilities.  IDA, IMF, and other development partners will work closely with 
the government to help with monitoring macroeconomic performance and in taking 
corrective actions in a timely manner. The government will need to ensure more grant 
funding and concessional borrowing, and foster continued economic and export growth to 
avoid debt distress. In the medium term, diversification of the economy – a main 
objective of the authorities and the proposed ERSG program – will mitigate the 
vulnerability of the economy to these shocks. 
·
Lack of technical capacity could lead to delays
.
The risk of weak technical capacity is 
mitigated by: (i) focusing reforms on a limited (but key) number of themes/areas; (ii) 
leveraging technical support from on-going IDA projects; (iii) working with other donors 
in the context of the partnership framework (
Cadre de Partenariat
)
to reduce the number 
of activities and better target technical assistance.  
·
Economic governance remains a challenge
.
Recent reforms in Procurement and other 
PFM areas, supported in part by ERSG II and III, have helped to mitigate this risk. The 
proposed operation will attempt to continue this progress with PFM reforms. The recent 
drafting of a national governance strategy, following the GAC survey and the 2008 
PEMFAR, demonstrates the government’s commitment to improve governance. This 
commitment will be further confirmed following the adoption of the governance strategy 
by the new government for which improving governance will be one of its key priorities. 
·
Weather conditions strongly influence the agricultural sector, as demonstrated in 
2003 and 2005.
 This might impact the future ability of the authorities to implement 
reforms in the export crop sector, and to maintain macro-stability.  The proposed program 
attempts to promote the diversification of the economy through improvements in the 
business environment and reforms in the mining sector. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Under Operational Policy 8.60, on Development Policy Lending, the Bank is required to 
determine whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to cause 
significant effects on the country’s environment, and, in the event of such likely effects, assess 
country systems for reducing any such adverse effects and enhancing such positive effects.  In 
the event of significant gaps in the analysis, or shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is 
required to identify how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during 
program implementation, as appropriate. 
For many years conflict displaced a large portion of the rural population and destroyed 
important economic and social infrastructure
.
As a result, poverty is particularly widespread 
in rural areas, where over 90 percent of the population lives. About 80 percent of the population 
suffers from food insecurity. Surveys estimate that national poverty incidence stood at about 67 
percent in 2006, a notable drop from 81 percent in 1998, yet far from the 2015 MDG target of 18 
Page  6
percent. Rural poverty is estimated to be twice that of urban areas. Regional differences are 
particularly acute, with poverty rates fluctuating between a low of 28.7 percent in Bujumbura to 
a
high of 82.3 percent in the province of Kirundo. The intensity of poverty also varies among 
groups. Households living in urban areas whose head or spouse has a better education and who 
benefit from better employment are less likely to be poor.Following these policy requirements, 
specific country policies supported by the proposed ERSG IV operation are 
not
likely to cause 
significant effects on Burundi's environment, forests and other natural resources. ERSG IV will 
provide general budget support to the government of Burundi. Policy actions aimed at improving 
public finance management procedures and practices and creating a positive environment for 
private sector development are, in themselves, not likely to cause significant effects on the 
country’s environment, forests, or natural resources. The coffee sector reform component of the 
program, which the government has begun to implement, following a review of the conclusions 
and recommendations of a divestiture study, aims to increase coffee output, improving quality, 
and increasing the share of producers in border prices. The increase in output is expected to 
come—at least initially — from improvements in productivity of existing coffee growing areas, 
which fell to extremely low levels over the past 15 years and more efficient use of available land, 
not through forest clearing and extending production into marginal lands and commons. 
Improvement in the quality and price of Burundi’s coffee is expected to come from more 
effective use of existing washing stations and from a better marketing strategy. Ideally the 
reform program will help restore the production of Burundi’s coffee to the level already reached 
before the crisis of the 1990s. Although no significant environmental impact is foreseen as a 
result of increased coffee output initially, a detailed and comprehensive analysis of potential 
environmental impacts and mitigation options recently undertaken through a “strategic 
environmental assessment” (SEA) of the coffee sector in Burundi, to create adequate policy 
action should the reform lead to further increase in production, confirmed our predictions of 
limited environment impact of coffee reform. A similar exercise for other export crops is also 
envisaged in the near future.  
Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Pascal Nganou 
Title: Senior Country Economist 
Tel: 202-458-8054 
Fax: 202-473-8466 
Email: jnganou@worldbank.org 
 
8. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  7
