Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF098669 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Fourth Economic Reform Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as Administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for 
Co-financing of the Fourth Economic Reform Support Grant  
 
Dated February 4, 2011 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF098669
 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 4, 2011 entered into between the REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
(“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (“World Bank”), 
acting as administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Co-financing of the Fourth Economic 
Reform Support Grant (“ERSG IV”) in respect of grant funds provided to said trust fund (“Trust 
Fund”) by Norway, for the purpose of providing additional financing in support of the Program 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The World Bank has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under 
the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement; and (b) the 
Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and 
the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to nine million five hundred 
two thousand thirty five United States dollars (US$ 9,502,035), (“Grant”) to assist in 
financing the Program. 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with Section II of 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions, 
the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds in 
the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Co-financing of the Fourth Economic Reform Support 
Grant (“ERSG IV”). The World Bank shall not be obliged to provide funds under the 
Multi-donor Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient except to the extent the World Bank shall 
have received funds from the Donors for this purpose. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the World 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the World Bank on any situation which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or 
any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of 
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE WORLD BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall become effective as of the date of execution of this Agreement by 
both parties, subject however to the conditions listed below being satisfied, and shall 
continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations thereunder. 
5.02. 
The Conditions of Effectiveness are: 
(a) the World Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying 
out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic framework. 
(b) The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted and submitted to Parliament a draft 
new revised privatization law, which meets modern international best practice, and which 
the Recipient and the World Bank agree is designed to ensure that decisions related to 
privatization are made on technical grounds. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Facsimile:  257-22-22-38-27 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, DC 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED in Bujumbura, Republic of Burundi, as of the day and year first written above. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By: /s/ Clotilde Nizigama 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(acting as Administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for 
Co-financing of the Fourth Economic Reform Support Grant) 
 
By: /s/ John Murray McIntire
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under 
the Program include the following: 
A. 
Transparent System of
Public Financial Management 
(1) 
The Recipient has developed, through its ministries responsible for finance and 
for planning, a central medium term expenditure framework satisfactory to the 
World Bank for the period 2011-2013, supported by macro-economic forecasts 
derived from the macroeconomic model of the Recipient’s ministry responsible 
for planning. 
(2) 
The Recipient has improved the quality of quarterly commitment plans of the 
budget through: (i) ensuring consistency between said plans and the annual cash 
forecasts; and (ii) breaking said plans down by line ministry and, with respect to 
the Recipient’s specific ministries responsible for public health, national defense, 
public security, primary and secondary education, in consultation with each such 
line ministry. 
(3) 
The Recipient has installed a new payroll system interfaced with the Recipient’s 
financial management information system to improve payroll management. 
B. 
Improving Business Environment and Promoting the Development of the Private Sector 
(4) 
The Recipient has provided the resources needed for the effective operation of 
Agence de Promotion des Investissements
,
the Recipient’s investment promotion 
agency, including the allocation of appropriate personnel and budget and the 
establishment of a work program.   
(5) 
Régie de Production et de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité
 (REGIDESO), the 
Recipient’s water and electricity production and distribution company established 
and operating under the laws of the Recipient, has expanded its electricity 
prepayment program through the establishment of prepayment meters to cover at 
least 25 percent of its subscribers (including government’s institutions). 
(6) 
(i) The Recipient has disclosed to the public, on its website (
www.scep.bi
), the 
technical and financial audits for Fiscal Years 2005, 2006 and 2007 of the 
following public enterprises of the Recipient: Air Burundi, Société Régionale de 
Développement de l’Imbo (SRDI), Société Immobilière Publique (SIP), Hôtel 
Page  7
-
6
-
Source du Nil, Agence de Location de Matériel (ALM), Laboratoire National des 
Bâtiments et Travaux Publics (LNBTP), Encadrement des Constructions Sociales 
et Aménagement des Terrains (ECOSAT) and Office des Transports en commun 
(OTRACO). 
(7) 
As of the Effective Date, the action referred to in Section 5.02(b) of this 
Agreement. 
Section II. 
Availability of Grant Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Grant is allocated in a single withdrawal 
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Grant.  The allocation of 
the amounts of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
9,502,035 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
9,502,035 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World 
Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) 
with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
2. 
If, after this exchange of views, the World Bank is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the World Bank with 
respect to paragraph 1 above, then the World Bank may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
D. 
Deposits of Grant Amounts.
 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree: 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World Bank 
into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the World Bank (“Deposit Account”); and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank. 
Page  8
-
7
-
E. Audit.
 
Upon the World Bank’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
World Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the World Bank; 
2. 
furnish to the World Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the World Bank’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
World Bank shall reasonably request; and 
3. 
furnish to the World Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the World Bank shall reasonably request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment to the World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  9
-
8
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
World Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the 
World Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  10
-
9
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Recipient (or other 
such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
World Bank address such practices when they occur. 
1. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated November 5, 2010 from the Recipient to the World Bank declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the World Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
2. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Grant allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World 
Bank out of Various Funds”, dated July 31, 2010, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section II. 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions
 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. Sections 
2.01 
(
Project Execution Generally
)
and 2.07 (
Financial Management; Financial 
Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II 
are renumbered accordingly. 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.04. 
Documents; Records
.
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
…
(c) 
all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are retained 
until two years after the Closing date;” 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05. 
Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
.
The Recipient 
shall: 
…
(b)(ii) 
ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank, not later 
than six months after the Closing Date, a completion report of such scope and in 
such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program, the performance by the Recipient and the World Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.”  
5. 
The last sentence of Section 3.04 (d) (relating to Applications for Withdrawal) is deleted 
in its entirety. 
6. 
Sections 3.05 (
Designated Accounts
)
and 3.06 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered accordingly. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Grant is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in support of 
which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these Standard 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
