                                               CONFORMED



                                      GRANT NUMBER H632-BI




  Financing Agreement
    (Fourth Economic Reform Support Grant)



                   between



          REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI



                     and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




           Dated December 15, 2010
                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

Agreement dated December 15, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
(“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as well as the actions to be taken by the Recipient in
accordance with Section 5.01 below as a condition of effectiveness of this Agreement; and (b) the
Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and
the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:


                 ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.


                                 ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to sixteen million one
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,100,000) (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.




                                                -2-
                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
                the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a situation has
        arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
        carried out.


                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

        (a)     The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
                carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
                macroeconomic policy framework.

        (b)     The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has adopted and submitted to Parliament a
                draft new revised privatization law, which meets modern international best
                practice, and which the Recipient and the Association agree is designed to ensure
                that decisions related to privatization are made on technical grounds.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.




                                                -3-
                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance
        P. O. Box 1830
        Bujumbura
        Burundi

        Facsimile: + 257-22-22-38-27

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)              1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.




                                                -4-
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written.




                               REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI




                               By //s// Clotilde Nizigama
                                                        Authorized Representative




                               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                               By //s// Mercy Tembon
                                                       Authorized Representative




                                             -5-
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                    Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

A.      Transparent System of Public Financial Management

        (1)     The Recipient has developed, through its ministries responsible for finance and
                for planning, a central medium term expenditure framework satisfactory to the
                Association for the period 2011-2013, supported by macro-economic forecasts
                derived from the macroeconomic model of the Recipient’s ministry responsible
                for planning.

        (2)     The Recipient has improved the quality of quarterly commitment plans of the
                budget through: (i) ensuring consistency between said plans and the annual cash
                forecasts; and (ii) breaking said plans down by line ministry and, with respect to
                the Recipient’s specific ministries responsible for public health, national defense,
                public security, primary and secondary education, in consultation with each such
                line ministry.

        (3)     The Recipient has installed a new payroll system interfaced with the Recipient’s
                financial management information system to improve payroll management.

B.      Improving Business Environment and Promoting the Development of the Private Sector

        (4)     The Recipient has provided the resources needed for the effective operation of
                Agence de Promotion des Investissements, the Recipient’s investment promotion
                agency, including the allocation of appropriate personnel and budget and the
                establishment of a work program.

        (5)     Régie de Production et de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité (REGIDESO), the
                Recipient’s water and electricity production and distribution company established
                and operating under the laws of the Recipient, has expanded its electricity
                prepayment program through the establishment of prepayment meters to cover at
                least 25 percent of its subscribers (including government’s institutions).

        (6)     (i) The Recipient has disclosed to the public, on its website (www.scep.bi), the
                technical and financial audits for Fiscal Years 2005, 2006 and 2007 of the
                following public enterprises of the Recipient: Air Burundi, Société Régionale de
                Développement de l’Imbo (SRDI), Société Immobilière Publique (SIP), Hôtel
                Source du Nil, Agence de Location de Matériel (ALM), Laboratoire National des
                Bâtiments et Travaux Publics (LNBTP), Encadrement des Constructions Sociales
                et Aménagement des Terrains (ECOSAT) and Office des Transports en commun
                (OTRACO).



                                               -6-
        (7)     As of the Effective Date, the action referred to in Section 5.01(b) of this
                Agreement.


Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
        specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

                    Allocations                      Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                           (expressed in SDR)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                              16,100,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                           16,100,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        1.      No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
                Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
                and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework.

        2.      If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give
                notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the
                notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with
                respect to paragraph 1 above, then the Association may, by notice to the
                Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the
                Recipient and acceptable to the Association (“Deposit Account?); and

        2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
                into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget
                management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.      Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

        1.      have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
                Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
                acceptable to the Association;


                                               -7-
        2.      furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
                four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a
                certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall reasonably request; and

        3.      furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
                Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be cancelled.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.




                                               -8-
                                         APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
                financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
                United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
                or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
                designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

                         Group            Sub-group               Description of Item
                         112                                      Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                      Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                  tobacco refuse
                         122                                      Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                  (whether or not containing
                                                                  tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                      Radioactive and associated
                                                                  materials
                         667                                      Pearls, precious and
                                                                  semiprecious stones,
                                                                  unworked or worked
                         718              718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                  thereof; fuel elements
                                                                  (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                                  for nuclear reactors
                         728              728.43                  Tobacco processing
                                                                  machinery
                         897              897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                  platinum group metals
                                                                  (except watches and watch
                                                                  cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                                  silversmiths’ wares
                                                                  (including set gems)
                         971                                      Gold, non-monetary
                                                                  (excluding gold ores and
                                                                  concentrates)




                                              -9-
        (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
                consumption;

        (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
                prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
                the Recipient is a party;

        (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
                and

        (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
                collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
                Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
                other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
                the Association to address such practices when they occur.

2.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association General
        Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
        in Section II of this Appendix.

3.      “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
        growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated November 5, 2010 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
        Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
        the Association in support of the Program during its execution.

4.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section
        II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.



                                              -10-
5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …         (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
            until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
            Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
     follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
            such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
            execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
            of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
            of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
            Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
            are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
            to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
            of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project? throughout these
            General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?.




                                           -11-
