Report No. PIC4248
Project Name                   Lithuania-Municipal Development Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Urban Development
Project ID                     LTPA35802
Borrower                       Republic of Lithuania
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Public Administration Reform
and Local Authorities
Mr. Algirdas Karalius, Deputy Minister,
Vilnius, Lithuania
Environmental Category: B
Date PID Prepared              April 19, 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       June 1997
Projected Board Date           December 1997
Peer Reviewers                 Mr. George Gattoni, TWURD
David Vetter, LAlPS
Country and Sector Background
1.   Local governments in Lithuania provide a broad range of basic
services. They are responsible for, among others, water supply,
sewerage, solid waste management, urban streets, and public transport
and share responsibilities with the central government for the human
resource sectors.   Local government expenditures accounted for 40t of
the national budget and represented about 8t of GDP in 1994. Health,
education and other social expenditures accounted for over 60t of local
government expenditures.   Lithuania is highly urbanized with about 70t
of the population living in urban areas where people rely on local
governments for water, transportation and other essential services.
While the country is not faced with a massive breakdown in basic
services, the local governments have been forced to cut back on capital
expenditures due to budgetary constraints and are faced with
increasingly large loads of deferred maintenance and investments.
2.   Building effective local institutions is the key to ensure a
sustained delivery of services, address infrastructure bottlenecks, and
improve living standards. The Government of Lithuania (GoL) has taken
steps to enhance the role and capacity of local institutions. A 1994
Law streamlined a former structure of over 480 city and district
administrations into 56 Municipalities. The GoL is now transferring
state property to the Municipalities and has created a new Ministry of
Public Administration Reform and Local Authorities (MPARLA) to lead the
modernization of the state and oversee local affairs. A unified
Association of Local Authorities (AoLA) was created in 1995 to support
local development and represent municipal views in national policy fora.
3.   Still, local authorities face major hurdles in discharging their
expanded tasks. Ambiguities remain on the responsibilities of the 56



Municipalities and the 10 Districts, which were also created at the same
time as the Municipalities but as organs of the central government,
especially in the social sectors and the environment. Inter-
governmental revenue sharing has varied annually, which makes it
difficult to plan and implement multi-year development programs.
Institutional capacities are incipient in areas such as budgeting,
investment planning, project management, and revenue administration.
Capital investment has been a bottleneck in the absence of long-term
credit. The Municipalities lack a credit record or the collateral
needed to secure loan or bond repayment, and the domestic financial
sector is not yet able to provide maturities suitable for infrastructure
investment. Municipal investment remains largely dependent on central
subsidies, and investment volumes come far short of the amounts needed
to clear a backlog of deferred maintenance and provide timely expansion
and improvement of services.
Project Objectives
4.   The  project would support Lithuania's decentralization reforms by
building local capacities and initiating municipal access to long-term
borrowing. Project objectives are to: (a) strengthen the
Municipalities' capacity for investment planning, service delivery and
financial management; (b) support a number of viable, well-prepared
investment projects that will address infrastructure bottlenecks and
improve living standards in participating Municipalities; and (c)
support the GOL formulate policies and legal framework for local
government development.
Project Description
5.   The project consists of three components:
A.   A Municipal Investment component will finance a number of priority
investment sub-projects in selected Municipalities (such as water
and sewerage, roads and transportation, heating, etc).
B.   A Local Capacity-Building component will establish and fund a
technical assistance facility to: (i) support pre-investment
studies to identify priority investments at the municipal level;
(ii) strengthen Municipalities in revenue administration, planning
and budgeting, project management, regulation of municipal
enterprises (utilities) and environmental monitoring; and (iii)
assist selected municipal enterprises in improving management and
service delivery.
C.   Technical Assistance to GOL in local government policy and
legislative development, monitoring local government finances, and
project implementation and evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
6.   Total project cost is estimated to be US$30 million.    It is
expected that the Bank loan will be US$20 million. Grant financing will
be sought for the technical assistance components. Counterpart
financing for investments will be provided by participating
-2 -



Municipalities and funded from local revenues and user charges.
7.   The project would complement initiatives of several external
donors, including a major training program for municipal personnel
financed by the Danish government, and EU-Phare technical assistance in
several cities. The on-lending channel and local capacity building
facility created under the project would help mobilize additional
external resources and improve donor coordination in assisting
Municipalities.
Implementation Arrangements
8.   The Municipalities will be responsible for designing, preparing and
implementing investments. A first "batch" of investments representing
about 40- of the aggregate cost of the investment component will be
prepared and evaluated before appraisal, and ready for implementation
when the project starts.    Feasibility studies for these early sub-
projects are funded from a Japanese Government grant (PHRD).     Further
investments will be proposed by the Municipalities and selected on a
first-come, first served basis provided that they meet criteria of
economic, financial and environmental soundness agreed to during
appraisal. To ensure a transparent selection process, the criteria and
preparation requirements would be spelled out in a booklet distributed
to all municipalities.
9.   Arrangements for channelling Bank funds to local governments,
through a municipal creditfacility to be created in the central
government, will be defined during preparation and established before
loan effectiveness. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be on-lent in local
currency, at a variable rate covering the GoL's all-in cost of funds
including administration costs and a premium for cross-currency and
credit risks.   To mitigate the risk that some municipal borrowers might
default on their repayment obligations to the GoL, collateral
arrangements such as a pledge and "intercept" of future inter-
governmental transfers will be put in place.
10. A steering committee, consisting of the AoLA, MPARLA, the Ministry
of Finance and other key stakeholders, will be established to coordinate
local government policy development, oversee project preparation and
approve loans to Municipalities.
Project Sustainability
11. The project would make Municipalities more self-reliant by
introducing term borrowing as an alternative to their current dependence
on transfers from the central budget. Sustainability would be rooted
in: (a) greater local ownership by having the Municipalities determine
investment priorities and prepare and implement their projects; (b)
involvement of beneficiaries in investment preparation; (c) involvement
of the Municipalities, through the AoLA, in project preparation and
policy development; and (d) institutional strengthening through the
Local Capacity Building component for Municipalities and the technical
assistance component for the central government. Sub-loan pricing and
recovery arrangements would underpin the integrity of the on-lending
scheme. The Bank lending through the central government is seen as an
-3 -



interim measure and the proposed project will support developing
investment planning and financial management capacity in the
Municipalities in line with the long-term view that municipal borrowing
needs should be met from market sources.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
12. This would be the first municipal project in the country. The
project concept draws from a Bank study of municipal finance in
Lithuania. A Municipal Services Development Project in Latvia (Loan
3964 LV) was approved in December 1995 and is just starting
implementation, and a comparable project is under preparation for
Poland. At present, relevant implementation experience comes primarily
from other regions. This experience, reflected in a 1994 Board paper on
municipal operations, has been mixed. Shortfalls have been: D. a
combination of poor cost recovery, selection of some marginally viable
projects, difficulties in enforcing loan repayment, or unsustainable on-
lending rates which have led to the financial demise of several
municipal funds; and E. slow disbursements (especially for first-time
projects), often related to the lack of an initial pipeline of ready
subprojects. Factors of success have been prudent loan and project
dimensioning, early attention to pipeline development, robust loan
security arrangements, and a focus on affordability and beneficiary
ownership of the investments financed. These lessons will be
incorporated in the project design.
Poverty Aspects
13. The project does not specifically target poverty groups. However,
it will have a positive impact on living standards and will benefit the
poor who often experience greater difficulties than more affluent people
in coping with deficient public services. Even so, some sub-projects
may not be financially sustainable without tariff increases which in
turn could adversely affect low-income households. Participatory
assessments of willingness and ability to pay will be included in
feasibility studies to address this risk, and may lead to tariff designs
that include targeted subsidies.
Environmental Aspects
14. The project is expected to have mainly beneficial environmental
impacts, such as improved sanitation or the promotion of resource-
efficient public transport modes. However, some investments may
present environmental risks requiring detailed assessment and mitigation
measures. For the "first batch" of investments, environmental impacts
would be assessed as part of feasibility studies. For subsequent
investments, environmental screening and assessment procedures
conforming to Bank guidelines would be agreed to during appraisal, and
related capacities would be built into the evaluation criteria for
subsequent investments. This project has been rated category B.
Program Objective Categories
15. The project would aim to strengthen public sector management at the
local level, and would support environmentally sustainable development
- 4 -



through improved local infrastructure. Private participation in the
operation of local services would be encouraged in the institutional
components of sub-projects and the capacity-building component.
Public Participation
16. Involvement of beneficiary communities in project design will occur
in two ways.   First, the project is designed to allow elected local
governments to identify investments in line with local priority local
needs. Second, feasibility studies for investments will include
participatory assessments of service priorities and willingness to pay.
Project preparation will be coordinated with the Fiscal Decentralization
Initiative for Central and Eastern Europe (FDI-CEE) carried out by the
Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI). The FDI-CEE creates a
forum, through a series of incountry seminars and workshops, for
Lithuanian central and local government officials and local government
associations from other countries to discuss key local government policy
issues.
Project Benefits
17. Benefits would accrue from improvement of urban efficiency and
living standards in beneficiary Municipalities; and from strengthening
of local management and finances. The sector offers a strong potential
for high-return investments in rehabilitation or improvement of existing
infrastructure (for instance, loss reduction in water distribution
systems), which are currently under-funded.
Project Risks
18. The main risks for this first project are that: (a) few
Municipalities may be interested, if they regard the lending program as
competing with grants; (b) some Municipalities may find it hard to meet
their debt service obligations; (c) absorptive capacities may be lacking
at the local level and in central support units. Early contacts with
local government representatives indicate that strong interest for the
program does exist, and that financially viable projects can be found.
Nevertheless, detailed attention to the above risks and close
interaction with municipal sector participants will be key during
preparation, and the size and timing of the project should be assessed
against effective demand and investment readiness.
Contact Point:            Yoshine Uchimura, EC4MS
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone no.: (202) 458-0452
Fax No.: (202) 522-1165
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending
- 5 -



September 6, 1996.
- 6 -



