Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18003-LT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
LITHUANIA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 16, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1999)
Currency Unit Litas
4 Litai = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALAL            Association of Local Authorities of Lithuania
CV              Contingency Valuation
EIB             European Investment Bank
EU              European Union
EUR             Euro
GoL             Government of Lithuania
HCF             Housing Credit Foundation
H1UDF           Housing and Urban Development Foundation
IFI             International Financial Institution
LDB             Lithuanian Development Bank
LG              Local Government
MDP             Municipal Development Project
MDF             Municipal Development Fund
MIGs            Municipal Infrastructure Grants
MPARLA          Ministry of Public Administration Reforms and Local Authorities
MoE             Ministry of Economy
MoF             Ministry of Finance
NIB             Nordic Investment Bank
NPV             Net Present Value
PIP             Public Investment Program
PIT             Personal Income Tax
ROR             Economic and Internal Financial Rates of Return (ERR and IFRR)
SA              Social Assessment
SIP             Strategic Investment Profile
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Basil G. Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:     Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:       Margiet C. Thalwitz, ECSIN
Program Team Leader: Jeffrey Balkind, ECSIN



Lithuania
Municipal Development Project (MDP)
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ...............................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ...............................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project ....................................................3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................3
3. Sector issues addressed by the project and strategic choices ......................................6
C. Project Description  ...............................................................8
1. Project components and financing plan ................................................................              8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................ 10
3. Benefits and target population .........................                    ...................................... 13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ....................................................... 13
D. Project Rationale ............................................................... 20
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ......................................... 20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ... 21
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ...............................                .................. "
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................... 23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................ 23
E. Summary Project Analyses ............................................................... 23
1. Subproject eligibility criteria ...............................................................                   23
2. Economic ...............................................................                                           25
3. Financial ............................................................... 25
4. Technical ............................................................... 25
5. Institutional ...............................................................                                      26
6. Procurement and Disbursement ..............................                       ................................. 26
7. Financial Management and Reporting Systems (FMS) ......................                            ..................... 27
8. Social ............................................................... 28
9. Participatory approach ...............................................................                             29
10. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                         31



F. Sustainability and Risks ........................................................... 32
1. Sustainability ...................................................... 32
2. Critical risks ......................................................                 32
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................  33
G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................................................            33
1. Conditions that have been incorporated into Loan and Project Agreements ................ 33
2. Conditions of Effectiveness of the Loan.        ........................................................... 34
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                                       34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................... 34
Annexes
Annex 1.         Project Design Summary: Goals, Objectives, lndicators, Monitorinig and Evaluation
Annex 2.         Detailed Project Description, City/Municipality Profiles
Annex 3.         Estimated Project Costs of Subproject Pipeline (to date)
Annex 4.         Diagram of Project Organizationlal Structure
Annex 5.         Financial and Project Design Summary
Annex 6.         Procurement, Disbursement Arrangements, and Financial Management and Reporting
Systems
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.        Project Processing Budget and Schiedule
Annex 8.         Disbursement Schedule
Annex 9.         Panevezys Social Waste Managemenit Subproject: Social Assessmenit and Envirolillnelntal
Considerationis
Annex 10.        Social Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Annexes 11-17. Technical Assistance Package: Draft Terms of Reference
Annex 18.        Documents in Project File
Annex 19.        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 20.        Country at a Glance
Map              IBRD 26177
Authors of main PAD report:
Jeffrey Balkind (Program Team Leader), Gailius Draugelis (project finance/deputy task team leader),
Kimberly Cartwright (social aspects) and Fred Olowin (urban consultant)
Contributors of PAD sections:
Juliana Pigey (municipal finance), Kari Johannson (municipal engineering), C.P. Ranganathan
(procurement) and Inesis Kiskis (environment)



Lithuania
Municipal Development Project (MDP)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: April 16, 1999                                 Task Team Leader: Jeffrey Balkind
Country Manager/Director: Basil G. Kavalsky    Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: LT-PE-     Sector: Local Government      Program Objective Category: Economic
35802                  Finance                       Management/Local Government
Lending Instrument: Investment Loan                  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data               [X] Loan        [] Credit       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$20.1 million
Proposed terms:                                                [ x] Single currency, dollars and EUR
Grace period (years):    5        [x ]  Standard Variable  [ I  Fixed
Years to maturity:    17
Commitment fee:      %
Service charge:     %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                                5.0                                    5.0
IBRD                                                      5.93               13.97              20.1
Bilateral Donors                                          1.2                9.63               10.73
Other (specify)
Total      12.13              23.6                35.73
Borrower: Ministry of Finance
Guarantor: not applicable
Cross-financing arrangements are possible on a subproject by subproject basis from an existing ECU 20 million line of
credit with the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). Cross financinig with the European Investment Bank (EIB) would also be
possible upon final indications from the Government of Lithuaniia.
Responsible agencies Housing and Urban Development Foundationi (HUDF); Ministry of Finance; Association of Local
Authorities.
Other relevant agencies:
Ministry of Environment; Ministry of Public Administration Reform and Local Authorities; Ministry of Economy
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1999       2000       2001       2002    2003    2004  2005
Annual 0.0        2.1         3.8        5.7     4.6      2.3    1.6
Cumulative 0.0        2.1         5.9        11.6    16.2    18.5  20.1
[1   Partial credit    []    Partial risk
Project Implementation period: June 1999 - Dec. 2004
Expected Loan Effectiveness date: October 1999    Expected Closing date: June 2005



2
A: Project Development Objectives
l. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1).
The MDP's development objectives are as follows:
(i) to support the Government of Lithuania's reforms of local government (LG) administration and
finance through institutional capacity building at the municipal level and development of a viable
system for financing local government investments. As part of the Government's program to
redress regional inequalities, emphasis will be on the smaller municipalities outside of the capital
(Vilnius), which are too small to deal directly with international finanicial institutionls;
(ii) to support a number of well-prepared investilmenit projects that will improve the quality and cost
effectiveness of municipal services by compensatinig for the legacy of poor planning, lack of
maintenance and under-investment in infrastructure and environimenital investmenits - based on
demand (subprojects from Vilnius and Kaunas, the two largest cities, will be eligible);
(iii) to strengthen the municipalities' capacity for investment planning, capital budgeting, fiianicial
management, and ability to deliver improvements in basic urban services; and
(iv) to work with the other international finance institutions (IFIs) and the key partner bilateral
countries in supporting a more effective system of local government administration and finance,
topics that are important to the country's EU-Accession goals.
To carry out these objectives, the project's inpUts, outputs and indicators of measurement are shown
below (see Annexes I and 10 for further details):
(a) Inputs
*  Technical assistance and training for building up the capacity of municipalities to prepare and carry
out their investment projects;
*  Line of credit designed with cost recovery for municipal enterprises, and including environmental and
energy efficiency investments;
*  investment grant support mobilized from several of Lithuaniia's key partners (Sweden, Finlanid and
Denmark) for environlmenital investmenits and energy efficiency subprojects
*  Reliance on a noni-governmental agency (the Housing and Urban Development Foundation, formerly
knowin as the Housing Credit Foundation, HCF) as the Project Implementing Unit (PIU). Substantial
training and project promotion assistance to be provided to the PIU, which in turn assists the
municipalities in project development and implementationl.
(b) Outputs
*  Stronger municipal enterprises (finanicially and administratively) and municipal departments with
clear responsibilities in the management of municipal services and greater budget autonomy.
*  Beginnings of a sound financial system for municipalities and municipal enterprises
*  Improved operation of water/sanitationi, solid waste, district heating, street lighting services, and
school facilities; improved energy efficiency in municipal buildings and facilities.
*  Better integration of the National Public Investment Program (PIP) and LG investment planning.
*  Strengthened LG capacity for subproject identification and preparation.
*  Developing a technical and training function for the Association of Local Authorities (ALAL) and
strengthening the HUDF's existing skills in project promotion and appraisal/implementation.
*  Improved multi-year municipal infrastructure investment planning.
*  Close coordination of donor activities in the municipal sector.



3
(c) Outcome Indicators
* At least 20 subprojects in more than a dozen municipalities, with the majority to be located outside of
the capital city, Vilnius. Subprojects should have an environmental and public utility focus, with
emphasis on improved services delivery, including clearer assignment of roles and responsibilities
between LGs and municipal enterprises;
* Effective partnership to be forged between the HUDF and the ALAL. Staff of the HUDF to be
trained in procurement, disbursement and financial management/project accounting systems.
*  Formulation of capital budgets for client municipalities, adoption of a strategic investment plan by the
municipality;
* Data on average investment costs per capita of municipal population served;
* Wider participation of concerned stakeholders (resident populations, financial intermediaries,
technical/financial staff of the local govemments and municipal enterprises) in providing guidance
to the municipal investment system;
*  Quality of infrastructure to be improved, and "satisfaction levels" to be tested through selected social
assessment surveys.
* Effective training to be delivered to municipalities in financial management, project planning and
procurement. Detailed scope of work contained in Aniexes I 1-17.
(d) Impact indicators (See Annexes I and 10 for additional details including monitoring and evaluation)
* Improvement of infrastructure in secondary towns.
* Increased proportion of population served by improved municipal service delivery as a result of the
project.
* Ability of HUDF/ALAL/municipalities to effectively deliver project preparation and appraisal skills
and to help develop local consulting industries.
*  Local government more proactive in facilitating municipal reform issues with central government.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS Goals Supported by the Project
The CAS, to be discussed commensurately with this proposed loan, assigns major priority to
reform of public administration including local governments. A strengthening of the fiscal framework for
local governments, including more transparent capital budgeting and installation of sound accounting
practices and financial reporting, is urgently needed. The local governments need greater financial
autonomy (as documented in the 1988 Economic Report: "Lithuania: An Opportunity for Economic
Success"). The main issues to be addressed by the local governments sector (local governments and
national agencies working collaboratively on the agenda) are: (a) how to develop an efficient
administrative structure; (b) how to develop an effective financing system for municipalities; and (c) how
to build up the capacity of local governments to plan their own investment programs, to raise resources, to
manage their expenditures, and to execute projects in a timely fashion.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Based on the Bank's analytic and operational work to date, seven issues have become the most
prominent:
(i) The Government, the Donors and IFIs have tended to focus on the larger cities, towns and
municipalities, while the needs of small towns have often not been addressed, this exacerbates
income inequalities, and needs to be corrected. Production and services should not be concentrated



4
in the primate (capital) city. Greater efforts need to be made to ensure that local authorities across
Lithuania have adequate access to resources and capacity to implement developmental programs and
to improve the daily lives of their citizens by upgrading their services. This objective is also in
accord with the Bank's new Urban Strategy Paper. Of the three Baltic countries, Lithuania's urban
population is the most evenly spread. The capital city, Vilnius, accounts for 16 percent of the
country's population (compared to more than 33 percent in the case of Riga/Latvia or
Tallinn/Estonia). Table I indicates the size distribution of Lithuanian municipalities.
Table 1: Municipality Population Distribution
Municipality Population     Number of
(thousands)         Municipalities
590                  1 (Vilnius)
430                  1 (Kaunas)
100-205                3
70-99                 6
50-69                 12
30-49                 23
15-29                 8
<15                  2
The relatively large number of mtinicipalities of significanit size (50,000+ pop.) provides a good urban
base with economies of scale on wvhich to develop a balanced spatial distribution countrywide. The
World Bank, EBRD, EIB, the EC Phare, the NIB and donor countries have often focussed their
efforts on the larger cities of Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipeda, and Siaulai. The various assistance programs
have been unable to extend their outreacil to the smaller townis that lack the know-lhow and contacts to
approach IFIs and donor countries. Small municipalities need assistance much more than the large
cities: average household incomes in the 5 largest Lithuanian urban areas are more than double those
in the smaller towns. Besides financial resources, the small municipalities and municipal entities lack
technical skills and adequate project planning systems;
(ii) Reform of decentralized administrative sfructures needs to continue. Lithuania, like its two Baltic
neighbors, has adopted a two-tier level of government comprised of national and local government
(LG) structures. The Association of Local Authorities of Lithuania (ALAL) is meant to represent all
56 municipalities in putting forward a cohesive view oni LG issues to the National Government (the
Ministry of Public Reform  and local Authorities, MPARLA) but the task is huge. Significant
improvements have been made in the structure of decentralized governments: in 1994 hundreds of
tiny and largely ineffectual local authorities were consolidated into 56 municipalities. Expansion and
validation of local authority in the spheres of municipal services has progressed steadily, and is
expected to continue. Nevertheless, major obstacles to effective functioning remain, particularly in
the area of intergovernmental finance and local service organizations;
(iii) Municipalfinances could be mnore stable. Lithuaniia has a fairly effective system of intergovernmental
finance operating through the Equalization Formulae. The Central Government allocates revenues to
municipalities aniually through income tax and property tax collections. Larger cities in effect
contribute funds to smaller ones through the formulae that use population trends, geographic
concentration indices, and income indices to even out the differences between the large cities and the
small towns and municipalities. Yet municipalities have little practical control over their budgets.



5
Local governments receive the majority of their revenue through these inter-governmental transfers,
at rates set at the central level. The main form of revenue is the personal income tax (PIT), which is
collected nationally and distributed to municipalities through the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The
downside of the Equalization Formulae system is that it tends to discourage the municipalities from
setting their own revenue-generating programs and can potentially undermine tight fiscal discipline as
municipalities feel that funds are pre-determined in a mechanical fashioni irrespective of how they are
managed. Budgets are determined on an annual basis. and in many cases a formal distinction is not
made between capital and operating expenditures;
(iv) The existing capital grants program is poorlv structiured. The National Government disburses grants
to municipalities for capital investments through a Public Investmenlt Program (PIP). This process is
not adequately insulated from political pressures, is insufficielit to meet local demand, and gives
municipalities little discretion in use of funds. Projects above Litas 5 million need to be included in
the PIP, leaving a potentially large group of smaller investmenlts outside of the PIP process. The
Seimas can adjust the PIP annually. The legacy of Soviet planninig still exists at the local level:
projects might get some financing on an annual basis, but seldom does a project get approved for say
a three-year implementation period, with financing assured for each of the three years. Each year the
municipality has to re-apply to the central authorities, and the fact that the project was approved in a
previous year is not considered as a governing principle for furthier allocations. This leads to a "stop-
go approach" to physical project execution and the tendency to see unfinished buildings and public
works in various municipalities;
(v) Financial and technical systems for mnlmicipal investmnents need to be improved. The lack of
transparent criteria for project finance is in part the result of shortcomings in local capacity. Reforn
of both local finance systems and municipal provision of services and infrastructure requires
significant improvement in institutional capacity. At the local level in particular it is essential to
augment financial management, economic appraisal, investment planning, and techinical evaluation
skills;
(vi) Municipal services need imnprovements in cost recovery and efficiency. By and large, local service
fees (for water and sewerage, heating, electricity and solid waste services) are below cost-recovery
requirements inclusive of capital investnent necessary for long-term viability. However, local ability
to pay for necessary price increases in services is constrained, in both political and absolute terms.
Fiianicinig on a project-basis is not always likely to be feasible in the near term. Privatization of local
services has not been unldertakeni except in a very few  instances and most municipal service
organizationis remain dependenit on financial support from the local authority. Rationalization and
greater professionalism  of staff is necessary in many of the LG organizations, but is difficult to
achieve, especially in the short term; and
(vii) Establishing municipal creditworthiness is problematic. The system  of equalization transfers
provides an income stream that in essence can be used to provide collateral for borrowings through
potential deductions from revenues due if sub-borrowings are not repaid. Such collateral can be used
to help arrange investment loans, as indicated in the Decree on Local Borrowing (28 April 1998).
Municipal owned-property, another potential source of collateral, is not fully under the control of the
local authority, and legal mechanisms to acquire such property in case of default are lacking. The lack
of predictable revenues year to year, and the dominance of central decision-making in determining
local revenues are also problems. In addition, budget constraints at the local level are soft. Thus,
determining the borrowing capacity of most municipalities has been difficult.
Governmenl Strategy. The Government has decided to begin tackling the system of long term finance for
municipal investments by endorsing the idea of creating a single window of finance for municipal



6
infrastructure investments, utilizing long-term lines of credit provided by threelFIs (WB, NIB, and EIB)
and investment grant support provided by donors. The Government has selected the HUDF as the main
PIU for implementing the WB line of credit, and the HUDF would manage the investment grant support
as well. Over the next 3-4 years, the Government plans to broaden the system of municipal finance to
include the banking system, which up till now has not been able to lend to municipalities due to lack of
collateral (the banks do not benefit from "intercepts" under the Equalization Fund). The Government also
recognizes that assisting the municipalities with developing their technical skills is fundamenital to
expanding investment finance to municipalities, and has therefore decided to place priority on havinig an
effective, well coordinated municipal technical assistance and traininig program. These initiatives will be
supported at the macro level by continued emphasis on improving the legal and regulatory framework and
by implementing administrative reforms (e.g. the Governmenit is creating about a dozen Regional
Councils to provide an integrated focus across several municipalities or jurisdictions).
The Government has decided to enlist the support of the World Bank, Nordic Investment Bank,
and the European Investment Bank in providing a coordinated and well-focussed umbrella program of
financial support and institution building assistance to the municipalities throughlout the country. It has
reached out to all three IFIs because the needs are large and it plans on broad coverage across sectors
(water, sanitation, district heating, solid waste and energy insulationl in municipal buildings and schools).
3. Sector Issues addressed by tlte Project and Strategic Cl(oices
EU Accession. The primary issue seen by l1itiluaniiani policy makers is to prepare for EU
Accession. Amongst harmoniizationi of legislation with EU norimis, the EU has flagged the need for
Lithuania to strengthen its public administrationl to prepare for managinig investmenlts, "pre-structural"
funds, aimed to support national sector strategies whicih In turn provide a road map for conforming to EU
directives, Acquis Commnunautlire, and guidelines. In enier,gy, the EU will require the ten Accession
countries inter alia  (i) the adaptation of the energy sectors to the requirements of emerging single
electricity and gas markets; (ii) the gradual eliminationi of production subsidies to energy producers; (iii)
the iicrease of strategic fuel stocks and the diversification of energy supply sources (e.g. the issue of
Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant); (iv) the improvement of the operating efficiency and environmental and
safety record of power and district heating plants, coal mines, oil and gas production and refining
facilities, and energy transportation and distributioll networks. In environment, candidates would have to
comply with directives that affect the "Single Market" by the date of accession (in environment these
concern chemical substances, waste management, and fuel standards to control air pollution, etc.). For
other environmental directives, candidates would most likely negotiate transition periods for compliance,
particularly with urban wastewater, drinking water, pollution from  large combustion plants, urbani air
pollution and municipal solid waste. Many of these directives deal with cross-sectoral issues that are
managed by, or influenced by regional and local governments.
The Large Scale Infrastructure Facility (LSIF) and the Instrument for Structural Pre-Accession
(ISPA) are key mechanisms for providing investments in municipal infrastructure sectors that are used to
assist in harmonizinig legislation and building institutional capacity in preparation for EU Accession.
From 2000 to 2006 LSIF funds will be replaced with the ISPA. This fund is EUR 7 billion for the ten
accession countries, of which up to 50 percent is for the environment.  The ISPA would provide
subsidized loan or guarantee support for up to 85 percent of the public sector expenditure and by
definition would require cofinanced funds for investment projects. The first priorities indicated would be
drinking water, wastewater, solid and hazardous waste, with air pollution and nature parks as second
priorities.
These investments, which are likely to be quite large, and beyond the target group of this MDP
program, will depend upon the administrative and institutional capacity of local governments and their
enterprises in water, district heating, solid waste, roads and urban transport to effectively manage their



7
assets. The preparation for EU membership consideration has largely focussed on capacity building at the
national or regional administration level. Investments under the LSIF are likely to meet a different target
group to the needs of the small municipalities. Thus, an MDP program that focuses on environmental and
energy conservation needs across Lithuania's towns and small municipalities would complement the
activities of the EU.
With "pre-structural" funds coming on stream along side traditional bilateral support and IFI
lending - not to mention increased access to international capital markets - there is a wide scope for
cofinancing both in investment support and technical assistance in the LG sector.  In addition to direct
support, the MDP seeks to coordinate its activities with Lithuania's overall pre-Accession program and
with other donor programs in the eligible sectors,
An important element to coordination was close collaboration with the NIB as well discussions
with the EIB.' The objectives of NIB/EIB-Bank collaboration for this project are four-fold: (i) to provide
a real opportunity for NIB/EIB to leverage Bank involvement, and vice-versa, and quickly expand the
combined reach of our respective resources, (ii) to focus donor-related technical assistance and
investmiient support toward subprojects prepared uLider an established and mutually acceptable preparation
process; (iii) to assist in enilanicing parallel activities in techilical assistance and investmenit whiere donor
and EC efforts are similar in nature but are directed at different target audiences or sectors (i.e. local
government vs. national administration), and (iv) to provide a formal intermediary (HUDF) outside of a
government department.
Ai initensive effort at developing one investment window to municipalities and a well coordinated
approach to sub-project preparation, capacity building and investment support was launched. Donor/IFI
coordinationi meetings were held in Helsinki, Stockholm and Vilnius, and visits were made to Brussels
and Luxembourg. Donor inputs were solicited in project design and careful consideration was given to
the longstanidinig Nordic country experience in related LG sectors in Lithuania.
Bank management identified the MDP as a priority project under a Memorandum of Understanding
signed in 1998 between the EU, EBRD and the World Bank on Cooperation for Pre-Accession Countries.
Bank missions met with the EU Phare Program office and an understanding was arrived at that projects
of interest to the EU Phare program would be brought to the attention of that Office, and the Bank and
HUDF would take into account the EU Program initiatives when screening potential subprojects to be
financed under the MDP Loan.
In addition, a strong effort was made to build HUDF's capacity by involving it in the donor
consultationis and giving it direct accountability for donor coordination.  HUDF will be assisting
municipalities with their financing plans and in identifying available sources of finance. HUDF will need
to maintain an up-to-date pipeline of activities in the LG sector. The HUDF will coordinate the T/A
package under the MDP Loan and report on progress.
Decentralization and deconcentration. The Bank's focus on the secondary towns is appropriate
for its first broad-based municipal operation in the country: prior projects have focused on single towns
and a specific sector, e.g. Klaipeda Environment Project (1995), Siauliai Environment Project (1996), the
Community Development Project (1997) and the IDF Grant for the Vilnius Old Town Revitalization Plan
(1996).
1 Cross-financing with NIB for eligible subprojects is planned. Discussions on collaboration with EIB on financing
municipal subprojects under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program are currently ongoing.



8
Financial Predictability. The MDP can help the municipalities in obtaining more predictability
in their finances: it will correct the "stop-go" project finance approach by introducing comprehensive
project planning and execution at the local level and a source of long-term financing currently not
available to municipalities and municipal enterprises. The MDP will also help build institutions - - the
ALAL and HUDF - - to deliver targeted and sustainable technical assistance and training. These are
essential first steps to implementing an effective financial system for capital investments at the local level.
C: Project Description
1. Project Components and Financing Plan
The project would consist of three main components: (i) a technical assistance and institution
building component for subproject preparation as well as deepening the skills of the HUDF, ALAL, local
governments and municipal enterprises to carry out the municipal development program. The assistance
would cover the range of municipal projects in water, sanitation, solid waste, district heating, urban
infrastructure, street lighting, and energy insulation in schools and municipal buildings; (ii) a line of credit
that will help finance viable investment subloans; and (iii) Municipal Infrastructure Grants (MIGs) will
enable grant-based funds to be provided to small municipalities for projects that have broader economic
benefits and costs, such as in the environment sector.
The costs/financing plan presented below includes the IBRD Loan, and the T/A package is
applied to the Government's Municipal Development Program.
The financing plan for the program consists of funding from a range of external sources,
including the World Bank MDP loan and grants from three of Lithuania's external donors - - Sweden,
Finland and Denmark. The MIGs will be supported in part by grants, on a subproject case-by-case basis
from SIDA in Sweden, the Ministry of Environment in Finland, and the Ministries of Energy and
E.nvironmenital Protection in Denmark. Each subproject would be eligible for the investment grants which
reduces the discretionary nature of making grant decisions. Grant allocations would reduce the need for
loan financing toward the costs of a given subproject. Grant allocations would be made to subprojects
with particular emphasis on subprojects that have a wide environmental and social benefit. Resources
will also come from local governments, a minimum of ten percent of subproject costs.
The MDP is designed as a flexible mechanism to capture opportunities of cross-financing of
subprojects with NIB as well as with EIB. The NIB signed a loan (20 million ECU) with the Government
of Lithuania in January 1998. The NIB line of credit is focused on environment and district heating
sectors primarily in the municipal sector.  Discussions have been held to firm up the process of
collaboration on financing municipal subprojects under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program. In
principle, the WB would exchange experience and subproject pipeline information with the NIB under a
reciprocal arrangement whereby the WB line of credit could finance a proportionate share of a subloan
with the NIB (see Annex 6). Although not all subsectors would be applicable to each line of credit, the
Government would like to coordinate these lines of credit and indicated its interest to include EIB in the
process as well.



9
Lithuania's Municipal Development Program
Cost Including
Contingencies                        Other          World
Component                  Category          of the        % of    World    financing/        Bank
Municipal      Total     Bank      Local          percent
Development              financing   Grants        of total
Program                (millions)  (US$M)        program
(US$M)
A. Institutional Capacity Building,    T/A for       1.6                                   8.3
Training and Project Preparation      feasibility    advisors in first                     donor
Assistance                            studies and    two years.                            partners
Strengthening project preparation and   training in                                        (incl.
screening capacity; preparation of    municipal      6.8                                   Denmark,
feasibility studies and detail        management  consulting                               Finland,
design/procurement documentation      and advisors  services:                              Sweden)
with emphasis on use of local         in environ.,   feasibility stud-                     of which:
consultants to extent practicable;    energy,        ies, design and                       4.8 for
Municipal Training and Capacity       municipal      engineering.                          consulting
Building Program coordinated by       finance for                                          services
Lithuanian Association of             project        0.5                                   1.4 for
Municipalities. Training programs in    preparation,   Municipal                           advisors;
financial management and economic    appraisal       Institutional                         0.4 for
evaluation will be developed in       and            Development                           Municipal
partnership with local academic       development  Fund, including                         Institution-
institutions and through twinning     of capacity    accounting TA.                        al Develop-
arrangements with sister municipal    in                                                   ment
associations overseas. Coursework     ALAL.                                                Facility and
will be targeted to meet sub-loans                   0.83                                  Training
preparation requirements. Capacity                  training                               Coordina-
building program would include:                      development                           ted by
-   Municipal Institutional                          and                                   ALAL;
Development Fund to provide                          implementation.                       1.73 donor
management consulting support to                                                           funding
municipal entities.                                                                        sought by
govt.
-   Training program
1.41
Mun. con-
tribution
Subtotal                                    9.73              27.2                 9.73
B. Municipal Investment Projects      Investment   24.8               69.4    $19.8        2.6
Restructuring/upgrading of essential    component:                            million      LG con-        79.8
infrastructure including water supply,   Civil works,                          loan        tribution
wastewater treatment, solid waste     consulting
management, district heating, energy    services, and                                      2.4 MIGs2
efficiency renovations, street lighting,   equipment
and other municipal investments with
good cost-recovery potential or which
provide social, environmental or
economic benefits.
2MIGs are the Municipal Infrastructure Grants to be supported by donor funds. They will provide investment grant support for eligible
subprojects to compensate for improved quality and cost effectiveness of municipal services by compensating for the legacy of poor planning,
lack of maintenance, and under-investment in infrastructure and environmental investments, as well as in mitigating costs of compliance with
related EU Accession requirements.



10
Lithuania's Municipal Development Program
Cost Including
Contingencies                     Other         World
Component                Category         of the      % of    World   financing/    Bank
Municipal    Total    Bank    Local           percent
Development            financing  Grants        of total
Program              (millions)  (US$M)      program
(US$M)
C. HUDF Institutional Development  Operations:        1.0         1.4                   1.0
Personnel, equipment and vehicle for   personnel,                                    GoL Con-
4 year project management unit to  equipment,                                        tribution
provide assistance in development of   vehicle
independent technical assistance
center for municipal project
preparation, appraise WB and NIB
projects and manage the Municipal
Infrastructure Grants (MIGs)
D. Front-end Fee                                      0.20                 0.20
Total                                        35.73        100.0    20.1        15.73       56.3
Note:
This table includes indicative costs associated with the IBRD  loan under Lithuania's Municipal
Development Program. Cross financing between NIB and IBRD loans would be arranged on a subproject by
subproject basis. A similar arrangement could be made with EIB. Technical Assistance (TA) shown in this table
apply to all subprojects under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program. The indicative TA program costs are
based on estimates that include the NIB's 20.0 million ECU loan.
Counterpart funding and grant needs would escalate commensurately with the inclusion of eligible
subprojects financed by participating IFIs under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program.
Estimated TA needs for the first two years have been addressed.  Further donor support would be
considered, in part, on the basis of satisfactory performance of the Municipal Development Program. The TA
components are modular; therefore, the scope of the TA would also be adjusted to meet available level of donor
support.
The cross-financing approach makes a great deal of sense for several reasons: (i) technical
experience on the subprojects gets shared; (ii) financing gaps get filled; and (iii) at the municipal level,
the officials do not get approached with several alternative, and time consuming possibilities where they
would rather have access to one source that is coordinated within the Government or its designated
agencies (in this case the HUDF).
This coordinating of lines of credit from IFIs for municipal lending would be pioneering in the case
of Lithuania and might be replicated in other country cases. Cross-financing is on a parallel basis,
because of different country members for procurement purposes.
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
Regulate Borrowing and Facilitate Access to Long-Term Credit by Local Governments. The
Government will need to continue to play an active role by regulating and facilitating long term financing
to address the capital investment needs in municipal infrastructure. Long term domestic financing is
extremely scarce, with lending at reasonable prices to the private sector ranging up to no more than a few



11
years.  The regulatory framework needs to be made more flexible as currently the ratios for local
government borrowings (see municipalities financial eligibility criteria later) are too restrictive. The
Government did introduce a regulation on municipal borrowing that became effective in January 1998
which calculates annual limits on short and long tern debt throughi calculations based on annual budget
revenues which in turn are mainly transfers from the central governmenit.
Indicast,  Uses                                     Indicatrie Sources
Governrnnt/Niu
Fee  AdvSors to -CF                      nicpal Etry
HCF Operalons   1 %  4%                            Contrb.to-,
3%_                                              14%
Feasibilty          Donors for
Stud,es/Engmn-        klest-ni
eerng Des n           Grants\
19%                  7
Tra,n,g and                                            IBRD
hsttutIonal        Donors for                          56%
Developnnent        Technmcal
- th ALAL          Assistance
Investrrenl                  4%                  23%
Indicative Uses                                Indicative Sources
$m                                                     $m
Advisors to HUDF                        1.60           IBRD''                                 20.10
Feasibility Studies/Engineerinlg Design   6.80         Donors for Techinical Assistance         8.33
Traininig and Institutionial                           Donors for Investment Grants             2.40
Developmeit withi ALAL           I.33          Governmienlt/Muniicipal Entity
Investmetltl                           24.80                   Contributionis                   5.00
HUDF Operations                         1.00
Fee                                     0.20
Total                          35.73                           Total                   35.73
Not all subsectors will be eligible under lines of credit. EIB is not shown because Loan Agreement is not yet
signed. The Government has indicated its interest to coordinate IBRD and NIB lines of credit in particular.
Discussions between the government, NIB and IBRD have been held to firm up this collaboration.
On the demand side, the project aims to assist the Government in its reforn by encouraging,
rather thani controllilng, responsible  borrowing by municipalities.   Municipalities and  municipal
enterprises are still inexperienced borrowers, not fully cognizant of either their borrowing capacities, or
just simply unable to provide private banks with comfort in terms of adequate financial information,
proper accountilig and sound management practices. The MDP links the provision of long term credit for
municipal infrastructure to a comprehensive subproject development process that is designed to help
municipalities develop a track record of financing well prepared and viable subprojects. The municipality
and municipal enterprise, for example, will need to ensure that the source of repayment of the subloan is
3Under the Decree on the Usage of Bank Credits, Allowance and Issuance of Loans by Local Authorities (Decree
Number 51 1, April 28, 1998), the stock of a municipality's loans and guarantees cannot exceed 20 percent of annual
approved revenues (30 percent for Vilnius), excluding special purpose grants. The Ministry of Finance can increase
this limit to 50 percent on a case by case basis. Municipalities may borrow up to 10 percent of total approved
revenues (5 percent for short term loans, i.e. loans with a maturity of less than one year) annually. In addition, debt
service payments cannot exceed 10 percent of total approved revenues for the year.



12
reliable and predictable through careful financial management, adherence to cost recovery principles and
clear performance benchmarks justifying any anticipated increases in user charges. This should assist in
reducing the many obstacles that still exist for private banks to actively engage in extending credit to
municipalities.
Additionally, the market of local private contractors and consultants, and training courses to
support municipal development are underdeveloped. The sustainability of project financing structures for
municipal infrastructure in the future would also depend on the quality of services used to support its
development.  The MDP would provide an opportunity for civil works/goods contractors and the
Lithuanian consulting services industry to operate under time-tested rules of international project finance
while preparing and implementing subprojects. The HUDF would ensure that municipalities have access
to a reliable pool of support firms. Advisors to the HUDF would be required to provide guidance to local
private sector firms in implementing their assignments. To the extent feasible, donor partners have been
encoLuraged to increase the percent of financing eligible to fund local consultanits. In addition, a donor-
partner supported traininig component for subproject beneficiaries would also be made available to the
local private sector participants on a full cost recovery basis.
On the supply side, while long tern private sector financing is unavailable, long-term municipal
infrastructure financing from  the EC  and other internationial financial institutions as well as
complementary technical assistance and investment grant support from  bilateral donors is currently
available. The project has developed a framework whereby available credit is used with more selectivity
and grant funids from bilateral partners is better leveraged. The framework aims to assist the Government
in developing a well-coordinated approach to sub-project preparation, capacity building and investment
support.
IntlrochueLe more revenue cerfainty and improve budget process at the Local Level  Local
governmenit revenies are still heavily dependent on central government transfers with very little
opportullity to generate revenues of their own. Additionally, the central governmenit provides financing
for large municipal investment projects throughi special annual allocations rather than through regular
municipal budgets. The lack of local revenue autonomy and an inability to budget for multi-year
investmenits has created a poor environmenit for encouraging budget reform at the local level, particularly
in capital budgetinig and investment planning.  The result is a "stop-go" approach to municipal
infrastructure investments and a misalignment of investment projects with municipal development
objectives. The project aims to introduce linkages in the local budgeting process between resources,
needs and municipalities strategic development objectives by committing credit funds for multi-year
assignmenits under a framework that is designed to highlight these linkages.
Clarify the assignment of capital expenditure responsibilities Assignment of capital expenditure
between central and local government levels needs strengthening. Municipalities are responsible for all
capital infrastructure, but the central government still retains responsibility for infrastructure projects
above Litas 5 million through the Public Investment Program (PIP). Currently, some projects are
financed through credit, while others receive grant support. However, the allocation of these resources
needs a more systematic approach. The project is designed as a transitional mechanism to allow municipal
funding mechanisms to emerge eventually in the financial sector (as is common in Western Europe), and
not necessarily to create a municipal bank., nor to be dependent upon public money. Over the project
implementation period, the MDP through the HUDF would work with about 40 of the 56 municipalities.
All municipalities will be invited to participate and submit subproject proposals. The MDP would be
included in the Government's PIP process.
Put decentralized DH companies on a financially sustainable path. The central government
transferred ownership and management of DH companies to the municipalities in July 1997. The



13
municipalities have inherited a trouble-filled service that is beset by low tariffs, low collection rates,
obsolete and outmoded physical infrastructure, significant operating losses and debt. While the project
would finance small investments in DH improvements, the MDP as such would bring international
expertise through feasibility and engineering design work as well as implementation technical assistance
that will help municipalities and their DH companies implement better cost recovery measures,
management and organization.
3. Benefits and Target Population
The major benefits of the proposed project would be: (a) building up the capacity of local
governments to be responsible for their planning, capital budgeting and project implementation in a
systematic manner; this would strengthen project preparation, financial planning and economic analysis at
the local government level and enable municipal enterprises to conduct effective borrowing for capital
infrastructure; (b) improving urban services in many municipalities in the country by providing packages
of technical assistance and long-term credit to those municipalities that demonstrate a willingness to
implement reforms in expenditure planning and execution, and a willingness to improve urban
governance throuighi embarking on training; (c) monitorinig the delivery of such services so that benefits in
terms of actual improved services are in fact received by the populations; emphasis will be on the
improving the quality, cost effectiveness and coverage of municipal services. Linking the training
componenit to the loan component will enable a "learnilg by doing" approach, by which municipalities
will begin to see the tangible results from their efforts. More details on economic benefits and criteria
(includinig the IRR and ERR) are showin unider the eligibility criteria section later.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangenments
Determinanlts for successfuil implemenitationi of MDF-type projects in other countries have proven
to be: (i) selection of.a reliable, efficient intermediary that has good institutional and technical capacity;
(ii) separation of the role of the agenicy identifyinig and preparing projects versus the agencies appraising
and funlding the projects; (iii) strong collateral/security arrangements for subloans;  (iv) systematic
supervision and evaluation systems; and (iv) assembling the appropriate technical assistance package. The
MDP relies on a noni-goverinmental department - - the HUDF (which was formerly known as the Housing
Credit Foundationi, HUDF) - - to carry out the entreprenieurial activity required in subproject promotion,
the timely decision-making required in subproject appraisal, and the attention to detail required in project
implementationi. Experience in the last six months in building up a solid subproject pipeline, with
preparation aided by resources from the Japan PHRD Fund, has given a good base to implementation of
the MDP.
The HUDF is well-versed in the rigorous work involved in screening projects, appraising
proposed investments, visiting the project applicants, helping to get subprojects implemented through
preparation of detailed designs, detailed supervision of procurement arrangements, and instituting follow-
up and reporting arrangements.  HUDF has been carrying out these functions under the Housing
Pilot/Energy Efficiency Loan, and as a result has become fully familiar with WB requirements on project
implementation, project financing, and project reporting. The HUDF's successful experience in funding
local school building renovations has also given it a good reputation among local authorities. Therefore,
the lead-in time to handle the new MDP operation will be significantly shorter than with a new agency,
and identification and appraisal of bankable subprojects under the MDP operation should be rapid.
On-lending arrangements for subprojects
The organizational structure and flow of funds under the project is summarized in Figure 1. The
Borrower would be the MoF, which would pass subloan funds on to the municipalities at the IBRD
interest rate plus one-percent margin. The IBRD loan to MOF will be on standard IBRD terms, and will



14
be in single currency, Euro denominated. The MOF will pass the proceeds of the subloans on to the
municipalities with a markup of 1 percent to cover overhead and markup for HUDF's administrative
costs. The maturity term for the subloans could range up to 15 years depending on the nature of the
investment and corresponding to the benefit stream of the subproject. Normally, repayments would
commence after completing physical works otn the subproject and not later thanl after A14 of the whole
subloan period.
Foreign exchanige risk on the subloans would be carried by the municipalities as the Government
policy is to have the risk carried by the end-users. However, by taking a dollar and Euro loan (50:50), any
given municipality will be offered a choice of dollars or Euros or a combination of the two. Lithuania has
recently decided to peg its currency (Litas) to the dollar and Euro. The currency has been stable these past
few years, including during the ruble crisis of 1998.
Credit risk from the municipalities would be guaranteed by the arrangements applicable under the
Local Governments Borrowing Regulation, namely if municipalities do not pay theirsubloans, theni the
amounts due can be deducted from revenues due unider the Equalization Fund arrangements applicable
across all municipalities.
As a conditioni of subproject on-lendinlg, 10% of subproject costs would be covered by the
municipal subborrowers. Likewise, 10 percent of the costs of subproject preparation expenses (feasibility
studies, design and enginieering) are being covered by either the municipal enterprise or the municipality,
with the Japan PHRD Fund providing the funiding for 90 percent of the preparation costs as regards the
first batch of subprojects. For those subprojects that meet the grant eligibility criteria, grant funds from
the donors will be provided throughi the MGCF. For preparation of subprojects once the PHRD funds
have been used, the funids allocated by the Nordic countries will be tapped.
Institultions and Roles over a Lonkger Ternm: A Strcategic Vision
Figures 2 and 3 below illustrate the preparationi, evaluationi and finanlcinig steps for projects to be
considered uLider the MDP. Two scenarios are envisioned:
Scenario I - Bringing LGs/Municipal Enterprises to Market - IFIs and Donors
In the first phase, HUDF plays a central role, and gradually the ALAL is able to take on a more
direct and technilcal role to promote and screen potential subprojects. The staged nature of the institutional
relationslhips for project development is appropriate given the evolving state of legal, administrative, and
financial structures in Lithuania as well as the sources of finance available for long term municipal
infrastructure investments.
Scenario H1- Bringing LGs/mnzicipal enterprises to market - commercial banks and capital markets
Financing sources should not be dependent upon borrowing from IFIs and obtaining grants from
donors. Over time, with mechanisms in place that can reasonably assess municipal creditworthiness, long
term capital financing options should become available, and should be integrated with budget funds in a
systematic way. These mechanisms -- including human and administrative capacity, strengthened
revenue autonomy and transparent financial information that can be understood by the financial markets -
- are in part the focal point of MDP. HUDF's intermediary role of helping municipalities in the
preparation stage of subprojects will also likely change over time as the field of private Lithuanian
consultants, both engineers and trainers, is broadened and trained. In a later stage, HUDF could either join
with a commercial bank, such as the Lithuanian Development Bank (LDB), or with a commercial bank,
and provide a full package of technical skills and project finance to municipalities. Bank project



15
supervision missions will track the institutional progress made in the LG sector, and if a follow-up MDP
operation is made, it should encompass a broadened institutional framework along the lines outlined
above. Supervision should include dialogue with the ongoing Task Force on Local Government
Borrowings, led by the MPARLA, commercial banks and other private financing sources, and relevant
Ministries so that a coordinated framework indeed emerges.
PIU responsibilities
The HUDF's main functions will be to handle five aspects of project development (as distinct
from financial arrangements) and implementationi. These are (i) strategic investment plans as part of
municipal eligibility criteria; (ii) feasibility reviews; (iii) subproject appraisals; (iv) help in preparation of
bidding documenltation; (v) supervise implementation of subprojects. While grouping of all of these
aspects ulider a single organization is not ideal, it is the only viable solution until the ALAL becomes
operational and the comm7lercial banks start lending to municipalities from their own resources. HUDF
will be structured to assist in procuring contracts between municipalities and consultants, who will carry
out the actual studies.



16
Figure 1. Municipal Development Loan: Implementation Structure and On-Lending Arrangements
Lithuania Municipal Development Loan
Financial Structure: From World Bank to End Client
World Bank
Single Currency Loan at Wlorld Bank Cost
of Fnnds andfees
Ministry of Finance
Board of Directors (HCF)
Approves Subloans
HCF Financiail Function                                             Loan Committee
- manages Speiial Account          Responsible for
- mainagLs Rexsiving Fund    -    PrqfJect F~inauueial         Project Implementation Unit
- manages projfct accounts         fanagement and
Primary contact point for infrastructure
ccunting \project investments
Project preparation
On-lending in Eutro equivalent plus                          Project appraisal
standard AloF mark-up and HCF mnarkup                           Grant coordination
for adnministrative expenses
repayments        1.   subloan allocation
to revolving fiind
Municipal Enterprise
Municipality
provides jz arantee
for enterprise
borrowing



17
Figure 2. Municipal Development Project Flow Chart: From Client Application to World Bank
Municipal Training Program
MuniciDalitv                                     /        Assemble coursework
/. prepares Strategic Investment Profile
2. provides municipal guarantee                and decision-maker s
3. cgrees taril3'schedule Jbr cost recovery 
I                  ~~~~~~//
S ecialized Technical Consultants
Municipal Enterprise                                      I'roject design and revisions given technical.
tIinancial and proyct requirements
*.    1. submits Project Concept Document
2 subnits Feasibiliti' Studty fir review
analyzes borrowing           3. conducts design and procurement                contracts   services
capacitlc and             ac7cord1ing to p)rjqect guidelines  iti          c
vialiin i f       ..    supervisionJrom lIlT
supor(oject
1. disburses finds
2. collectsrepayments         _Board of Directors (Ht:F)
.___                                                   I ontn
Project Implementation Unit
HCF's Financial                           Primary contact point for infrastructure project investments
function                         Project preparation
Project appraisal
Grant coordination
Subloan allocation
gives no-objection to initial
subprojects and those above
threshhold limits
World Bank



18
Efficiency in project development is especially important in view of the anticipated large number
of small-cost projects that will be handled under the MDP. A Strategic Investment Profile (SIP) will be
solicited from municipalities, with their completion and a statement of investment priorities as a
precondition for borrowing. Private training institutes, of which there are several, could assist
municipalities in the preparation of SIPs, if such assistance is necessary. Feasibility reviews will be
undertaken according to guidelines provided in Annex 2 and in the Implementation Manual.
HUDF should summarize and distill the lessons learned during MDP implementation. HUDF will
provide feedback to training courses that are to be coordinated by the ALAL and developed jointly with
Lithuanian training institutes, primarily the Municipal Training Center (SmC) and Business Training
Center (BmC) of the Kaunas Technological University. In future, a Technical Assistance Center for
Municipalities associated with the ALAL could be formed where subproject preparation along MDP
guidelines could be formally used to complement the HUDF's existing work. The ALAL's functions are
described in the training proposal included as Annex 17.
In mid-term during implementation, the MDP should be re-evaluated in light of Government
policy changes towards municipalities and with alternatives discussed above in mind. In particular, care
should be taken that HUDF-directed funds be competing on a fair basis with commercial bank lending, at
unsubsidized rates.
Figure 3. Municipal Development Project Flow Chart
HCF/ALAL Functions                                           H .
' \        ~HCF                      HCF's
*Helps municipalities   prepare feasibility  Hlelps municipalities          Appraisal
ALAL /  identtify strategic     studies for priority  prepare tender documents       Functions
MPARLA  investment priorities.    borrowing needs       and project analysis
M lndicates national                         procurement standards.    Appraises subprojects
MoMleE    investment priorities.   Consu/tants      Troubleshooting throughout  based on MDP criteria
role      *Evaluates tlnancial                           the project cycle.
capacity ofL
MoF      municipalities and aids
role     timing of investments.                                       T      
V P~~~~ROJECSJ\
MoF/HCF                          Municipality
Supervision      Subborrower     Maintains project
Functions                       assets and repays
implements          loan.
Disburses WB loan
ConsultantsrIt1
iontractors
and
Consultants



19
Subproject Pipeline and IBRD Loan Amount
Annex 3 shows the state of readiness of the subproject pipeline. Fifteen subprojects in the
pipeline are estimated to cost $15.9 million. The pipeline will grow in the coming months to well over
$20 million and therefore an IBRD loan of $20 million is justified. The diagram in Annex 3 shows the
process used in subproject preparation and appraisal (the "wheel diagram"). Subprojects are being sought
from municipalities in a series of rounds, with a first round solicitation of smaller towns before projects in
Vilnius (see Annex 5). A "model" project in each of the six main subsectors has been selected - - water,
sanitation, solid waste management, street lighting, district heating, and energy conservation for schools
and municipal buildings. Advance work has been completed on two subprojects with detailed feasibility
studies done by DHV Consultants (Netherlands) and EKO Rivi Consultants (Lithuania) for Panevezys
Solid Waste and Telsiai Water. Detailed design and tender documents are being prepared for these two
subprojects. For both subprojects, detailed tender documents and final costs/engineering need to be
completed before bidding can be launched. Birzai district heating has been delayed due to legal
uncertainties that have only recently been resolved (ownership of district heatinig systems is now with the
municipalities). Akmene was judged to lack the institutional capacity to successfully navigate the hurdles
of project preparation, implementation and financing, and was removed from the preliminary round of
subprojects. Thus, discretion and judgement is being used so that not all subproject applications will get
accommodated. This helps build analytic rigor into the process.
Solicitation of the early subprojects (1997-1998) was managed by the original Project Steering
Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Public Adminiistration Reform for Local Authorities (MPARLA).
However, proposals were of substandard quality, with Panevezys and Telsiai being the exceptions. Future
solicitations will be more structured but also will be simplified in an effort to improve project submission
quality, drawing on the model subprojects. Work needs to proceed more rapidly than has been the case in
the governmental structures to date. And project appraisals using short forms and the already prepared
guidelines need to be adopted. HUDF's role as a proactive Project Implementation Unit, that can screen
ilquiries and carry out a dialogue witih local governmenits and municipal enterprises, should ensure an
overall improvement in subproject submissions.
A key feature of the MDP design is to allow local governments to establish their own investment
priorities and ensure such priorities are established in an open and analytic manner. Therefore, as HUDF
expands its capabilities to handle the complete spectrum of investment projects, the municipalities will
find more choices open to them as regards their investments. The initial subprojects will provide
demonstrationi value at the level of the municipalities and their beneficiaries/communities, as well as for
HUDF and participating consultant firms, as they continue to develop capacity across a variety of
subsectors.
Subproject preparation and evaluation methods
Identification. The initial round of project requests is being prepared, with HUDF acting in a lead
role to solicit and receive requests. HUDF's existing reputation as a source of assistance and a channel for
credit will facilitate timely and close contact with local authorities. Written invitations will be
supplemented with site visits and meetings with local decision-makers to explain project preparation
steps, borrowing guidelines, and evaluation criteria.
Preparation. Existing documentation for subprojects in Telsiai and Panevezys has been good,
but has been done to a level of detail that cannot be replicated for every subproject, especially small ones,
as the feasibility/design costs would soon amount to 20 percent or more of the actual investment. Such a
proportion in design work is not sustainable given the overall small size of the subprojects. Continuing
with conventional large-type standardized project preparation methodologies would result in development
costs that would exceed 20% of a given subproject's costs. Therefore, a streamlined approach is being



20
developed. Umbrella contracts will be tailored to incorporate and help transmit significant elements of
learning that have already taken place regarding the other subprojects which have been developed to a
more advanced stage. A model feasibility document in each of the MDP's subsectors will be maintained
and followed. Project development guidelines, as shown in the Implementation Manual, stress reliance
on local contractors, which will not only lower costs but be likely to help transmit best practice technical
solutions from existing knowledge of the Lithuanian transition.
Evaluation. Individual subprojects will be evaluated oni the basis of conformity to Eligibility
Criteria and other guidelines as shown in Annex 2 and in the Implementation Manual. Once the municipal
SIP has been completed and used to identify borrowing priorities, a specific investment is proposed and a
Project Concept Document submitted. Municipal enterprises that borrow will be expected to develop and
implement cost-recovery measures. Furthermore, performance contracts must be drawn up between
municipal enterprises that borrow and municipal governments which guarantee loans. All borrowers will
be evaluated on their capacity to repay loans, and projects must be economically viable and demonstrate
an acceptable financial rate of return.
Technical Assistance Package
The technical assistance package will provide critical advice in training inputs to the HUDF and
the ALAL. The package will be funded by the governments of Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Five
positions have been identified for which detailed terms of reference have been prepared:
1.    Local Government Specialist with MoF and HUDF(see Annex 11);
2.    Group terms of reference for the following four positions - see Annex 12
(a)  Procurement and Disbursement Specialist (see Annex 13);
(b) Financial Analyst to HUDF (see Annex 14);
(c)  Water and Environment Engineer to the HUDF (see Annex 15); and
(d)  District Heating Specialist to the HUDF (see Annex 16).
Annex 17 contains the terms of reference for a program of training of municipalities and
municipal enterprises that will be coordinated by the Lithuanian Association of Local Authorities
(ALAL). The plan is for the program to be delivered by ALAL and the Kaunas Technology Institute (the
Business School (BMC) and the Municipal Training Center (SMTC)).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project takes an institutional approach, involving development of a mechanism for financing of
local government investment, local capacity building and support for national policy reforms in the LG
sector. Other options would have been the WB lending directly to the municipalities in which the Bank
would have worked directly with individual municipalities to address specific investment needs, through
separate loans or guarantees. This was not possible as the direct lending approach is more suitable for
large municipalities; nor would it have addressed generic issues of local government borrowing and local
government finance, which are national in scope.
A municipal development fund structure was selected over the following alternatives:
(i) "Loan to lenders model" in which funds would flow through the commercial banks. It was decided not
to involve commercial banks to intermediate funds in this first loan because they have not been
willing to assume credit risk for long-term loans to municipalities due to the instability of local



21
government finance, their lack of familiarity with municipal lending, and the fact that. they do not
have access to "intercepts" under the Equalization Fund as collateral;
(ii) "Bond bank" which would involve creation of a separate entity that would raise funds for qualified
municipal investments through sale of bonds to investors who would then on-lend these funds to the
municipalities. This alternative was not possible because the legal framework is not yet developed to
support such local bond issues; and
(iii) "Hybrid" involving a municipal development fund and a bond bank - - this alternative was not
feasible for reasons stated in (ii) above.
An investment operation was selected over a sector-based operation, given the critical lack of
investment financing for local governments, which in many communities has become an urgent problem.
In light of this, guidelines for selection and development of and lending for subprojects have been
completed. Larger policy issues, including the structure, operations and management of enterprises are
being taken up in the dialogue on public administration reform.
2. Mcjor related projects financed by the Bantik tnd/or other dlevelopment agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned-see complete listing in Annex 9).
Sector issue                    Project         Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Private homeowners' associations    IlousilIg Pilot/Energy        S               S
development and building energy     Efficiency
efficiency investments
Highways maintenance                Highways Loan                 S               S
Private sector/banking development    Enterprise and Financial   HS               S
Sector Assistance
Assist development in rural areas   Private Agricultural          S               S
Development
Community                    HS             HS
Development
To improve environmental protection    Klaipeda Environment /
Siauliai Environment         S               S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
As shown above, there are two projects which will have an impact on the functioning of HUDF in
the near-term: the Housing Pilot/Energy Efficiency Loan that will remain part ofHUDF's activities; and
the environmental projects to the municipalities of Siaulai and Klaipeda.



22
Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) Environmental Loan Facility
As mentioned, the NIB has a line of credit to municipalities for environmental and district heating
subprojects, many of which will be similar to the cost-recovery projects which are envisioned under the
MDP. The collaboration with the NIB is discussed above.
Other donors
Development partners in Lithuania are designing their assistance in support of the EU Accession
process. They have also provided their support through investments and provision of technical assistance
to in discrete sectoral areas.
In energy, the EBRD is in discussions with the GoL on the future of the Ignalilia Nuclear Power
Plan, while also preparing a district heating investment in the city of Kaunas. EU Phare has financed
numerous studies and other technical assistance projects, including a technical audit of the electricity
transmission system, a restructuring and management consultancy for the Lithuanian Power Company
(LPC), a least cost power sector development program, and management audits for LPC and the
Lithuanian Gas Company. USAID is providing assistance to the Energy Pricing Commission in the area
of energy tariffs. The Nordic partners are also actively supporting energy sector reform. The Danish
Energy Agency, for example, is supporting the creation of a District Heating Task Force and a DH
training network.
As mentioned above, the focus on preparation of public administration for EU Accession has
been limited to date mainly at the national and regional level. The Governments of Denmark, Finland,
Norway, Sweden (SIDA), U.K. Know-How Fund as well as EU Phare are actively involved in energy
activities, both investinent and technical assistance that are generally related to the LG sector. U.K.
Know-How Fund has implemented an environmental project preparation training seminar. Additionally,
Finland and Sweden (SIDA) have provided advisors and environmental specialists (engineers) and
investment grants for environmental and energy projects.  EU Phare has established a Lithuanian
Environmental Investment Fund (LEIF) with USAID that currently allocates grants to promote private
sector investment in environmentally friendly technologies. It potentially can provide grants to the LG
sector for other environmental activities.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Experience with municipal projects finaniced by the Bank, as reflected in a recent OED report, has
improved. Shortfalls in the past have been: (a) a combination of poor cost recovery, selection of some
marginally viable projects, difficulties in enforcing loan repayment, or unsustainable on-lending rates
which have led to the financial demise of several municipal funds; and (b) slow disbursements (especially
for first-time projects), often related to the lack of an initial pipeline of ready sub-projects. Factors of
success have been prudent loan and project dimensioning, early attention to pipeline development, robust
loan security arrangements, and a focus on affordability and beneficiary ownership of the investments
financed. As a result, (a) sub-projects have been solicited early in project preparation and feasibility
studies have been completed with support from a Japanese PHRD Grant; (b) stringent financial criteria
are being applied in sub-project selection; and (c) donor co-financing funds will help defray the costs of
externalities not likely to be recoverable through tariff increases.
There is limited experience in Eastern Europe and the FSU countries on municipal development
funds. The Poland Municipal Finance Project (Loan 35082) channels loan funds through commercial
banks and project utilization has pick up recently. The Georgia Municipal Development and
Decentralization Project approved in June 1997 provides for establishment by the Government of a
Municipal Development Fund as an independent entity acting under the supervision of a coordination



23
commission; again, there is little implementation experience yet, but initial project preparation (including
a municipal audit and development of a priority investment plan) are impressive. The Latvia Municipal
Services Development project (Loan 3964 LV) approved in December 1995 includes a small pilot
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) component which uses a transitional state agency under a Board
consisting of representatives of relevant Ministries and administered by a small staff in the Ministry of
Economy. There has been good demand for the facility. There is no repayment experience yet (subloans
are still in their grace periods). The Lithuania project benefits from more detailed project preparation
since 1995, and includes arrangements to provide technical assistance to both the local governments for
project preparation and to the HUDF in selected aspects of project funding.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Municipalities have shown a strong interest in obtaining loan funds for projects submitted under
the existing Housing Pilot/Energy Efficiency loan, and have already been directing funding requests to
HUDF for a wide variety of municipal investments. HUDF is willing to take on the expanded role as a
broader municipal development facility, to complement its ongoing work. The GoL continues in its
reform of public administrations, in order to comply with requirements related to European Union
accession. Specific advances on this front include the recent passage of the Law on the Methodology of
Establishing Municipal Budget Income, the Law on Municipal Borrowing (April 1998), as well as a Law
on Solid Waste Management (June 1998).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank brings experience in project appraisal techiniques, procurement standards and
procedures, and the linkage of policy issues to investment project design. It also brings a network of
concerned donors (multilateral and bilateral) whicih offers a base from which to integrate loan and grant
funding mechanisms so as to enstire equal access to available funds. A process is in place that attempts to
minimize the risk of political interference at the local level and focus decisions on the merits of the
subproject.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Subproject Eligibility Criteria
A detailed Operations Manual has been written for this project (available from the project files) by
the World Bank staff consultants and the HUDF. Chapters 2 and 3contain the relevant information.
a. The projects must be financially feasible: that is, there must be a demonstrated ability on the part
of the lender to repay the loan. The internal financial rates of return (IFRR) should be above 12
percent where possible. If these conditions/tests are not satisfied, the subproject should not go
forward, even if all other criteria are met;
b. Municipal borrowing must be conducted in accordance to the Laws of the Republic of Lithuania,
including the Law on Municipal Borrowing:
*  Outstanding debt principal cannot exceed 20% of annual revenues (or 30%  for Vilnius
municipality). In exceptional cases Ministry of Finance may allow an increase in the limit up
to 50%.
*  The annual borrowing limit of a municipality is 10% of annual revenues, including a 5% limit
on short-term borrowings.
"Annual revenues" does not include special purpose grants to the municipality from the state budget of the
Republic of Lithuania.



24
* The debt service to be repaid by municipality that year, including interest, repayment of
principal and other expenses related to borrowing cannot exceed 10% of annual revenues.
c. The municipality or municipal enterprise would contribute at least 10 percent of the investment
costs from its own resources, or from the revenue allocations under the Equalization Fund. The
subborrower enterprise or municipality could also seek grants and other sources of funding to
co-finance the sub loan. Grant allocation would be made to subprojects with particular emphasis
on the subprojects in the environment or social sectors (e.g. energy, insulation in schools) or if
there is a demonstrated liquidity constraint (e.g. the subproject is showil to be economically
viable but the municipal enterprise implementing it is cash-strapped). In such cases, for example,
the IFRR may be below 12 percent (but in all cases needs to be above 5 percent). The economic
rate of return (ERR) should be above 12 percent. That is, there would have to be wider economic
benefits to the local population of implementing such a subproject (e.g. abating pollution
downstream);
d. Municipal enterprises (i.e., utilities) could be providers of a single core set of services or of
multiple services. However, the enterprise should not be involved in peripheral activities (e.g.
trade and commerce). In some of the larger municipalities, separate enterprises provide different
services (e.g. water and sanitation, and are different enterprises to the heating and solid waste
enterprises, whereas in some municipalities (usually the smaller ones) one enterprise provides a
combinationi of urban services. However, in all cases, accounting and records should be
separated;
e. Municipal enterprise accounts shotild be adequately insulated from  municipality budgets.
Significant payment arrears from  other institutionial and private customers must be cleared.
Significant accounts payable to other institutiolIs must be covered. Municipalities should not
engage in preferential treatment of municipal enterprises, in terms of taxation or subsidized
lendinig;
f.  Municipal Government officials shouIld not be directly involved in the day-to-day management of
utilities. However, a body (either governmental or, preferably, independent) should oversee the
utilities. Ideally, this body should be non-political. Its role would be to:
*  Ensure that the utilities are fulfilliig their mandates (e.g., the water utility is providing a safe
and consistent supply of water and is collecting and appropriately treating wastewater; or the
district heating utility is providing an adequate supply of hot water and sufficient heating
during the winter season).
*  Identify (through communticationi with managemenit of the enterprises) the priority investment
needs of the utility.
*  Review and approve the rates charged for utility services. The rates should be equivalent to
the costs associated with providing services. One group of customers (i.e., industry) should
not subsidize another, and no customer group (including government enterprises) should be
excused from its obligation to pay for utility services. The process of calculating, reviewing,
and approving rates should be stable, predictable, and fair, and should be insulated from
political considerations. Where the cost of providing services is deemed not affordable to a
segment of the population, this should be addressed through a program that provides
subsidies or reduced rates to those who cannot afford to pay but not through or tariff
reductions to all customers or through cross-subsidies.



25
Develop performance benchmarks for the borrowing municipal enterprise, including scope
and quality of service standards for the utility and describing the methodology and procedures
used for calculating and approving tariff levels. The willingness to embark on training will be
one of the benchmarks.
g. Revenues from the municipal enterprise should be segregated to ensure that these are used to fund
expenditures of that enterprise. The Municipal Government should not have access to the funds,
unless these are part of formal debt service contracted by the municipality.
2. Economic
Detailed Subproject Eligibility Criteria have been formulated for the subprojects (see chapters 2
and 3 of the Operations Manual).
The overall MDP line of credit's major benefits are expected to be (i) improved productivity of
municipal services overall; (ii) improved  local government management in small towns and
municipalities: (ii) depending upon the municipality in question, improved water, sanitation, solid waste
collection, improved transport services within urban area. Improved  district heating supply, better
conditions in schools and other public buildings.
The economic rate of return of the subprojects should be above 12 percent.
3. Financial (see Annex 5)
The financial rate of return of the subprojects should also be above 12 percent. If it is below, but
above 5 percent, the subproject could qualify for grant fuLids to blend with the loan funds, if the economic
rate of return is itself above 12 percent, i.e. the subproject would have to be shown to be of economic and
social priority. The willingness and ability of customers to pay for improved services in order to obtain
cost recovery in small towns will be an important element in financial appraisal of the subprojects.
Willingness to pay is not fully tested and over-scaling may cause difficulties in setting proper financial
covenants.  Financial analysis will take into account contingenicy valuation studies which establish
benchmark willingness to pay levels. (See Aniex 9). Additionally, the PIU will be supported with
advisors in Financial Analysis and Municipal Fiianice to assist in subproject evaluation.
Fiscal impact. The project will have a beneficial impact on fiscal systems by placing investment
projects on a clear budgeting cycle that provides funds not on a stop-go annual basis but for a three year
implementation period based on approved project appraisal reports. Thereby, investment planning will be
strengthened which is sorely needed at the level of small municipalities. The discretionary nature of the
Equalization Fund would therefore be reduced, as fewer investment projects would have to go through the
Fund.
4. Technical
The technical quality of subprojects of the overall project will only be as good as the technical
capacity of the agency implementing it. The HUDF has accumulated good technical skills in its ongoing
project work. The extent of preparation on the first two subprojects (funded under the first PHRD) at the
technical level is comprehensive. The challenge is to balance the comprehensiveness of that work with the
needs for completing technical work on a much larger group of subprojects in the future. Careful project
planning sequenced over a multi-year horizon will enable the technical aspects, including tender
documents, cost estimates finalization, and carrying out of bid review systems, including site inspections
and project progress reporting, to be handled thoroughly and systematically.



26
5. Institutional
a. Executing agencies. The main implementing agency is the HUDF, which was established in 1996
under the name Housing Credit Foundation (HCF) and has been working with homeowners
associations and schools on their renovation needs for more than three years. It has developed a good
track record. The Managing Director (Mr. Vitkauskas) is well regarded and has slhowni sound
management skills. The staff of eight professionals and support staff is being expanded to carry out
the municipal development functions. HUDF has four divisions or sections (Operations Manual has
full details).
b. Project management. HUDF will be responsible for project management aspects. It will interface
with the MoF and ALAL as explained in the diagrams above. HUDF's Board of Directors will take
over the role of the Project Steering Committee, witlh an expanded membership. A commercial bank
will be invited to part of HUDF's Board.
6. Procurement and Disbursement
The procurement of goods and works to be financed from the Bank-loan proceeds in conjunction
with other co-financed funds will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines of 1995
amended as of January 1999. Annex 6 summarizes the procurement arrangemenits. A detailed assessment
of the capacity of the HUDF to handle procurement was undertakeni and the report is available in the
project files. Procurement financed with the Bank loan would cover: (i) civil works needed to support
the subproject works as shown in Annex 6; and (ii) the purclhase of equipment needed to support
subproject works. Giveii the small size of the contracts, and the fact that the works are geographically
scattered, civil works will mainly be procured throughi National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
or minor works procuremnent procedures (based on1 three offers) acceptable to the Bank. The HUDF and
municipalities/municipal enterprises wvill use bidding documenlts based on1 the Bank's standard bidding
documents for civil works.
Thresholds and prior review. The procuremiienit of goods below $200,000 equivalent shall be
through internationial shopping, whicih shall be reviewed after one year. Procurement of goods above
$200,000 equivalent shall be by Internlationial Competitive Bidding (ICB).
The procurement of civil works between US$200,000 and $800,000 equivalent shall be through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and the prior-review threslhold shall be $0.5 million for the first five
contracts. On satisfactory performance, the prior review threshlold shall be increased to $0.8 million.
Procurement of civil works above $0.8 million equivalent shall be by International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Procurement of civil works below $200,000 shall be through minor-works procedures. The
consulting services will be procured following the respective donors' procedures and, therefore, will not
be subject to Bank review.
Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed over a five-year period until end-2004 (Annex 8). The
disbursement categories and the percentages of expenditures to be financed by the proposed loan are
shown in Annex 6.
To facilitate disbursement, the Government would establish a Special Account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank which will be drawn down by the HUDF.  The HUDF will authorize
disbursements to the contractors.
Regarding Bank disbursements on civil works and goods where the WB is involved without
participating IFI, the MDP loan will finance 100% of a subloan. The subloan may finance up to 90



27
percent of a given subprojects' costs or 100 percent of foreign expenditures, whichever is less, excluding
taxes. On subprojects jointly financed with the NIB, the World Bank Loan will finance a proportionate
share of the subloan. Overall, the subborrower is to contribute at least ten percent of project costs,
excluding taxes.
An initial deposit of US$500,000 and EUR470,00, respectively, would be made available for the
Special Account for HUDF upon Loan effectiveness. The Bank would replenish the Special Account
upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenses, accompanied by a bank statement and
reconciliation of the Special Account.  Payments for expenditures prior to the date of the Loan
Agreement, except for withdrawals, in aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000
and EUR900,000, respectively, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after March 30, 1999.
The HUDF would maintain two Special Accounts for loan-financed components and would keep
them separately from any existing accounts. All disbursements would need to be fully documented,
expenditures for goods and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent, and for
expenditures of consultants' services under contracts costing less than (i) $1 00,000 for firms, and (ii)
$50,000 equivalent for individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
7. Financial Management and Reporting Systems (FMS)
Finanicial Management and Accounting arrangeinents for the project are described in detail in
Annex 6.
Accounting. The accountinig profession in Lithuania underwenlt a change in 1993 when it moved
away from  the old Soviet System  of maintaining accounts to following internationially accepted
accounting principles. Unlike other European counltries, Lithuania does not have a separate Institution for
Accountants, which could serve as the body to implement Interinational Accounting Standards (IAS) il
business and industry. However, familiarity with IAS is growing through the work of the internationally
recognized accounting firms who are active in Lithuania today. In-house training is provided at these
firms to supplement local diplomas and degrees.
HUDF has begun to maintain it books on a double entry system of bookkeeping and records of
expenditures are maintained under the accrual basis of accounting. HUDF, being a registered company,
produces final accounts along with a Profit and Loss Account and a Balance Sheet, which is subject to
external independent audit. The chart of accounts and the formats of the Profit and Loss Account and the
Balance Sheet are in conformity with IAS.
HUDF's previous accounting standards and procedures showed some sigilificanit deficiencies
(lack of double-entry bookkeeping and manual calculations of interest). Steps are being taken to correct
this through introduction of a computerized accounting system, institution of proper internal control
mechanisms and a training program, to ensure that the financial management and accounting systems are
in compliance with GoL and Bank requirements.
Audit Arrangements. HUDF accounts are audited by KPMG, which carries out an independent
audit of the books. It is expected that the same auditors would be retained to carry out the audit of the
project accounts. Once the project is approved, the current scope of the auditors would be expanded to
include the audit of the current project accounts (including the Special Accounts) as well as to review the
internal controls in the organization. The audit of the project would be undertaken in accordance with
International Auditing Standards. Audited financial statements for the project would be sent to the Bank
within six months after the end of every fiscal year.



28
Reporting Arrangements. In addition to submission of annual audited financial statements,
unaudited financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within three months after the end of every
fiscal year. The HUDF would also be required to submit to the Bank quarterly project management
reports per guidelines issued by the Bank under (OP/BP 10.02).
Financial Management
Financial Management arrangements for the project are shown in Aniex 6. All necessary steps
would be taken to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02).
Disbursements under the project will be based oni standard disbursement procedures and will be converted
to disbursements under the LACI framework based oni quarterly project managemenit reports (PMRs) at a
later stage of the project if the project managemenit reporting is successftilly implemented. A project
financial management system (FMS), conforming to the LACI guidelinies, will be completed during the
first year of implementation. The financial management reports will be generated from the FMS.
8. Social
An innovative approach in the MDP is the demonstration of public input into sub-project
identification and selection. This is a basic requirement in the Strategic Investmenit Profile (SIP).
Municipalities are required to submit evidence demonstratinig public awareness of, and involvement in,
the process of identifying local investinent needs and priorities. In addition, they must record the method
and scope of public consultation in the SIP, as well as state anticipated positive and negative social
impacts of the proposed sub-project.
In several Lithuaniian municipalities, social assessments will be conducted primarily to gauge
consumer satisfaction with current service provision and receptivity toward planned improvements and to
assess the ability and willingness of households to pay for improved service. The social assessment will
comprise two components:  stakeholder consultationis and a hoLiselhold survey of approximately 10
percent of the population. Local survey research firms, selected by a competitive bidding process, will
conduct the interviews and analyze the restults. The firmis are to work closely with the engineers and
economists oni the project to gain a full understanlding of the techinical issues. Results of the social
assessment will inform Bank staff about the public's concerns and level of support for various technical
options.
The first social assessment was conducted for the Panevezys Solid Waste Project (see Annex 9 for
a description of the project and preliminary findinigs). Panevezys was selected as the first site for the
assessment as it was one of the two municipalities withi a completed feasibility study. Telsiai, the other
municipality with a completed feasibility study, is the site for the second social assessment (on district
heat and water). The social assessment approach will be mainstreamed into all subprojects that are seen
to have an important social impact, e.g. water, solid waste, district heat.
Public awareness campaigns will also be conducted as pilot projects in select municipalities,
serving as models for other municipalities to follow. In one or two municipalities, utility companies will
solicit and consider citizen input into the design of the key elements of the project. Activities to be
undertaken are:
* Open houses for the public to learn about the project and speak informally with
4 Competitive bidding was employed in Panevezys. Contingent upon the quality of work performed, the firm may
be hired directly to carry out the additional social assessments.



29
representatives from the public utility.
*  Public hearings to discuss new developments and the technical options under consideration.
*  Media campaigns to inform the public about new developments (including reasons for tariff
adjustments) and to invite the public to the City Council meetings and the open houses.
*  Tours of the utility company to teach households about how the utility functions and spark
their interest in environmental issues. Teachers will be encouraged to incorporate research
questions into the curriculum.
The prototype for this demonstration project is the Daugavpils Water Enterprise in Latvia
(Udensvads), which, with technical assistance from the World Bank and the Netherlands, launched a
major public awareness campaign. Through a series of newspaper articles, brochures, and a bilingual
video, Udenvads is routinely informing citizens about renovations being conducted on the water and
sanitation pipelines and how it might affect the provision of water, iiotifying the public about schieduled
tariff increases and providing a rationale for the increases, soliciting public opinion about the quality of
water and educating citizens about water conservation and good hygienie. The water company has also
installed three hotlines for consumer complaints and emergencies. Lessons learned from  theDaugavpils
experience are being transferred into the Lithuanian water projects under the MDP.
Measures to protect the poor, by cushioning the impact of tariff increases through social protection
subsidies based on means tests, will be incorporated into implementation.  Periodic surveys and
participatory assessments to establish and monitor baseline social indicators (Annex 10) will be
conducted.  Technical assistance for the social monitor-inig of subprojects will be provided to the
municipalities throughi training courses to mntilicipal officials and enterprise directors and staff.  In
addition, as part of the staff of HUDF or ALAL, a local social scientist will serve as Social Advisor to the
municipalities, and perforn the following funlctions: assist HUDF evaluate the social criteria in the SIP,
ensuire ongoing stakeholder consUltation in project implemilenltatiol, provide advice to municipalities on
public consultationi methods, coordinate public awareniess workshops, collect information on social
indicators, and monitor and evaluate the social indicators on a reguilar basis.
9. Participatory Approach
Primary project beneficiaries wotild be the popuilationis residing withiin the jurisdictions of the
municipalities, and those served by the pubic utilities or muniicipal entities providing municipal services
(recipients of new and improved services), municipal employees (recipients of training and less red tape),
private consultants and training schools (recipients of techinical assistance from international firms and
increased market opportunities), and municipal enterprise directors and staff (recipients of better systems
management). These groups participated in the design process in the following ways:
*  Several missions visited Anyksciai, Birzai, Panevezys, Siauliai, Kaunas, and Vilnius city
municipal offices and met with the Mayor and city officials to discuss local priorities, possible
avenues for financing, and to determnie the extent of citizen participation in local decision-
making.
*  Visits were conducted with public enterprise directors in Panevezys, Kaunas, Telsiai, Birzai,
Anyksciai, and Siauliai to discuss the techinical details of the proposed investments and to assess
the borrowing capacity of the enterprises. The mission also made preliminary recommendations
to improve the enterprises' financial and accountinig operations.
*  Several visits were conducted with municipal officials and enterprise directors for the purpose of
briefing mission members on the technical, financial, and economic details of proposed
investments and to highlight any social concerns.



30
*  Three visits were held with the heads of two training centers, Kaunas Technical University and
Business and Municipal Training Centers to discuss requirements and funding options for the
development and implementation of the training component.
*  Approximately 30 residents of Panevezys and the neighboring town of Liudyne participated in
hour-long interviews about their preferences for a container or mobile system  of garbage
collection; current practices e.g. use of plastic liners, recycling, dumping; odor problems at the
landfill; concerns of water contamination, etc.
*  An additional 1,200 residents of Panevezys and Liudyne will participate in a household survey,
which will, among other issues, determine their ability and willihginess to pay for improved
service.
The National Government is a key stakeholder because it is interested to see that a viable lendinig
system for capital investment develops, particularly related to projects to blend loan and grant finance,
and it seeks admission into the EU; with the huge task of upgradinig environmental infrastructure in
particular, the project offers a model of how to approach these issues in the future.  Other key
stakeholders include international donors based in their home countries and in Lithuania, the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Environment, ALAL, HUDF, NGOs, and private entrepreneurs. The following are
some of the ways they participated in project preparation:
-  Meetings were held with commercial banks to discuss their experience in municipal lendinig.
-  Individual and group meetings were held with potential donors - NIB and NEFCO, EIB, EU
PHARE, UNDP (Lithuanlia), British Know-How Funid. SIDA, Danislh Ministries of Environment
and Energy, FINNIDA - to discuss the finanlcinig of techinical assistance, including social
activities.
*  Training coordinationi arrangements ainong FIUDF and ALAL were discussed and finalized
during the project preparation phase. ALAL also participated on the steering committee for the
MDP early in its design phase.
*  The Lithuanian Green Movement was consulted onl priority needs and investments.
*  A meeting was held with the managing director of a private solid waste collection and disposal
company with 55% of the Vilnius market share to learn more about his experiences and consider
their implications on the project design.
*  The Director of UAB EKO RIVI, hiead of the companiy that conducted the feasibility studies in
Panevezys and Telsiai, clarified certain social issues addressed in the studies and has agreed to
advise in the development of the surveys for the social assessment.
*  HUCF worked with mission members to decide how best to allocate the PHRD funds and has
taken a leading role in project coordination and supervision .
During implementation and monitoring and evaluation participation will be ensured primarily
through the employment of the Social Advisor, who will launch social activities and monitor and evaluate
the projects from a social perspective. Participation is built into the identification of subprojects, into the



31
training component, into the social assessments, into the pilot on public awareness, and into suggested
activities for effective supervision and monitoring and evaluation of the social indicators (see Annex 10).
10. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category: [ ] A [X] B [ ] C
The MDP has been screened and classified as category B in accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directives. Consisting of around 40 subprojects over the life of the loan, it will extend
infrastructure and municipal services to a wide range of municipalities and locations. Naturally, the extent
of environmental problems and the necessary protection measures will vary according to the subproject in
question. The Panevezys Solid Waste project is expected to have a positive impact upon the surrounding
environment through provision of solid waste collection systems, but there are some important
considerations (see below).  The Telsiai water subproject will have a positive impact upon the
environment through strengthening of the water reservoir and storage systems. Lithuaniian attention on
environmental problems started with large coastal projects like the Klaipeda Environimenit Project, and
attention has grown in recent years, because of the need to meet EU Accession Directives. In June 1998,
the Parliament passed a new law on Solid Waste Management which spells out policies to help formulate
and implement projects in this sector, with emphasis on attracting private sector interest.
Overall, the MDP operation will provide a mechanism for the Government (national and local
governments) to focus on the pressing environmental problems in dozens of small municipalities.
Regarding environmental assessments and capacity to hanidle environmental mitigation, the
environmental guidelines, whiicih originally were developed for the Lithuania EFSAP Loan are being
updated in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP/GP 4.01 and current Lithuanian legislation. HUDF will
benefit from advice from the technical advisors and be able to strengthen its environmental assessment
capacity (e.g. Denmark has provided advice to the Ministry of Envirolimenit and to HUDF).
The Panevezys Subproject includes containers and their siting, collection trucks, compactor and
weighbridge for the landfill, garages for the rolliig stock and fhianicial management development for the
operating company. The total investment is estimated at about US$ 2 million. The present landfill does
not meet sanitary conditions (apparently no bottom lining, lagooning only for the leachate), but it is not
full yet and is planned to be used for 2 - 4 years. A new well insulated landfill compartment has been
constructed and is ready to start receiving waste. The leachate treatment needs improvement. The
feasibility study stated that the planned investments have negligible environimental impact. The operation
had earlier received negative publicity due to an odor from an nearby private alcohol factory sludge
disposal pond, which has since been discontinued.
As regards, the environmental aspects of the Panevezys subproject, these will be reviewed before
the Bank gives its No-Objection. A number of considerations have been brought up:
-  Containers and siting. From a practical point of view, primarily a number of sanitary
requirements, and not the environmental ones, shall be observed. The siting must be chosen
in a way which is convenient for inhabitants, but it is even more important to make sure that
the design of the containers does not permit them to become a hotbed of diseases.
-  Collection trucks. These most likely will be new diesel engine driven collection trucks,
which must meet efficiency and safety criteria.
-  Garages. A routine case, which would be required to adhere to regular access/space norms.
-  Compactor and weighbridge. Environmental impact will be minimal. It is important to
make sure that during their erection all the applicable construction and sanitary norms and
procedures are observed.



32
The anticipated result is that more waste would be delivered to and stored in the landfill. Despite
the fact that the proposed MDP subloan will not be investing in a landfill site itself, it is necessary to
make sure that the waste is handled properly, especially from the environmental and social points of view.
Therefore, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Panevezys Municipality will require that the
Specialusis Autotransportas Company (ABA PSA) will operate the landfill with due diligence and
efficiency, and (i) will follow all applicable national environmental rules and guidelines; (ii) will close
the operation of the old site not later than 01/01/00, or any other date, as agreed by the Bank and HUDF;
(iii) and starting from project inception, the company will cover the old landfill with soil daily as long as
toxins do not seep out on the sides and bottom of the landfill.
In addition, all waste collected by Bank financed containers will need to be deposited inlto the new
landfill.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will be sustainable if it has the full support of the nationial and local governments and if
the HUDF and the ALAL. Sustainability at the local government level will depend on management
improvements in municipal enterprise and better investment planning and implementation.
2. Critical Risks (see Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
That Government policies work at cross-         M       Will review market conditions and
purposes between what the Central                       relation of the Litas to the Euro and
Goverinment wishes to implement and what the            the cross-currency risk (Euro to the
municipalities can absorb, e.g. the                     dollar). If need be, adjustments can be
municipalities may find it difficult to carry the       considered on other subloans as
foreign exchange risk on the subloalis. Yet the         project implementation proceeds.
Central Government has stated that its policy is
to pass on the risk to the suborrowers and not to
carry the risk itself.
That HUDF is unable to expand its activities    N       Obtain financial commitment of GOL
sufficiently and manage a large portfolio of            and follow HUDF progress closely.
subprojects, including for the two or three IFls
(WB, NIB, EIB).
That the ALAL is later unable to take on the    M       Would then rely more on private local
project promotion and screening function.               consultants for basic project
development capacity. This ALAL
aspect is not critical to the project
design
That the various portions of the technical      N       Intensive donor coordination
assistance package from the donor countries is          meetings have been held and close
not mobilized in time or does not meet the              contacts between the WB and donor
project needs as designed.                              countries/agencies will be



33
maintained.
Local political interference in allocation of   N       Development of clear, objective grant
grant funding                                           allocation criteria.
M      Due to the nature of small
Overall Risk Rating                                     municipality lending. Will need close
monitoring.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None seen at this time.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions that have been incorporated inito the Loan Agreenient atnd Project Agreement:
a.  That the HUDF is fully converted into the Housing and Urban Development Foundation (HUDF)
with four divisions or sections to reflect its broader mandate (Operations Manual);
b.  the MoF agrees that the HUDF will be able to cover its costs out of the agreed spread or markup
on the subloans;
c.  the MoF agrees that if the HUDF incurs a shortfall that endangers its ability to carry out the
project, that it will receive counterpart funds from the Government to enable it to continue
carrying out the project;
d.  that the MoF will adopt on-lending terms to the municipalities and/or municipal enterprises that
reflect the agreements embodied in the Loan Agreement;
e.  that the HUDF Board will have representationi from relevant ministries and a commercial bank;
f.  that subprojects will meet the Eligibility Criteria spelled out in Chapters 2 and 3 of the Operations
Manual and that the grants are to be used for subprojects judged to be of high priority for
receiving such funding (e.g. environment and energy efficiency investments for schools and
municipal buildings) according to the criteria stated. The maximum size ofsubloan shall be $5
in illion;
g.  that the MoF will ensure that the subprojects approved under the Municipal Loan are accepted
under the Public Investment Program (PIP), by inclusion of a line item entry into the PIP (for the
MDP Loan) so that each subproject need not be individually submitted to the PIP (see below);
h.  that the HUDF will help prepare and appraise the subprojects using funds allocated under the
PHRD Fund (for which the closinig date has been extended in principle until June 30, 2000);
i.  that the HUDF will maintain satisfactory finanicial accounts, monthly and quarterly statements,
and project progress reports in accordance with the Bank's Requirements for Financial
Management and Reporting Systems (FMS);
j.  that the HUDF will ensure that Procurement Procedures are followed in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines and the provisions/criteria specified in Annex 6 of the PAD, and Schedules 2
and 4 of the Loan Agreement; and



34
k.  that the Bank and the Government will conduct a Mid-Term Review of project progress.
2. Conditions of Effectiveness of the Loan:
(i)   the Borrower and the Bank would agree to the general terms, conditions and
general form of the Subloan Agreement that would be used to conclude each
subloan (for example, the Bank would need to have cost recovery provisions in
the Subloan Agreement where applicable);
(ii)   the Operations Manual would be adopted by HUDF, in the form acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(iii)  the Implemenitationi Agreement would be concluded between the Borrower and
HUDF;
(iv)   the HUDF would introduce satisfactory financial management and reporting
arrangements; and
(v)   the Borrower would ensure that subprojects approved under the MDP are
accepted under the Public Investment Program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for about half of the first year's activities are under preparation,
and the remainder will be completed in the second half of the calendar year. The state of readiness for
prompt executioni of the subprojects equals or exceeds currenit practices of WB lines of credit.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan and Operations Manual has been appraised and found to be realistic
and of good quality.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.



35
,Pogram Team Leader:    Jeffrey Balkind
Sector Leader:             argret C. Thalwitz
Sector Director:         Ricardo A. Halperin
Countrv Director:        Basil G. Kavalsky



36
Annex 1
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Project Design Summary (see Annex 10 for social monitoring indicators)
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                          (Goals)
Streamlined role of        Monitoring of project      That the National
municipalities, including  expenditures and           Government and
clarified responsibilities and  comparisons to Law for  Association of Local
Improve local infrastructure  greater budget autonomy.    Establishinig Municipal  Autilorities work effectively
Budget Income (July 1997).  together.
Install a functioning
municipal credit facility  Percent of total municipal    Needs consistenit follow-up
expeniditures fromn ownI   of main recommendations of
Improved operation of      resources.                 Munlicipal Fiianlce Chapter
water/sanitation, solid                               in Policy Notes (April 1998)
waste, district heatinig, urban  Review of finanicial
transport; cost-effective  statements of operating    That muinuicipal officials are
public building (i.e. school)  entities.              able to manage enterprises
renovation.                                           more efficiently.
Percent of own revenues
from operating entities for
investment.
Project Development                                                               (Objectives)
Objective:
Strengthening institutional   Better integration of Public   Progress on multi-year  That the MoE and the MoF
system between credit and    Investment Program (PIP)    budgeting for subprojects.   synchironiize their interaction
investment planning, and   and actual financing of                                with municipalities so that
transfers between national    projects at the local level.                        information for the PIP and
government and                                                                    related approvals is obtained
municipalities.                                                                   in a timely manier.
Set up HUDF as Municipal   HUDF appraising             Submission and Bank        Sufficient fundinig is
Credit Facility in short term   significant number of  review of HUDF appraisal   provided to I-IUDF to cnable
and over medium termn      subprojects each year based   documents, and periodic  recruitment of additional
examine ways to involve    on feasibility studies and  monitoring of              staff.
commercial banking system   strategic investment plans    implementation progress of
from municipalities.      these subprojects.
Set up a functioning T/A   ALAL to have a functioning  Submission and Bank        Funding (local and
facility for municipalities    T/A facility, helping in pre-  review of pre-feasibility  cofinancing) for T/A facility
feasibility work with the  work.                      is secured.
HUDF.



37
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Selection of municipalities   Key subsector priorities and  Review of financial /  Eligibility criteria and
and municipal enterprises    subproject proposals     institutionial performance of  appraisal standards are
based on clear eligibility  identified.                selected munlicipalities and   followed.
criteria                                               municipal enterprises.
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
Improvement of             Subproject financing across   Surveys of local population   Sufficient nuimber of viable
infrastructure in secondary    a range of municipal   and feedback regarding      subprojects in seconidary
towns                      subsectors. (Subprojects in  delivery of municipal     town1s are developed.
each of water, sanitation,  services.
solid waste, district heatinig                         Mullicipalities and
and energy insulation)                                 municipal enterprises are
trained (management and
finanice).
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                                (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)
for project description)
HUDF is able to expand its
Investment Componenit      Review of subprojects:      Progress reports from      activities and maniage a
monitoring of actual       HUDF; project status       growing portfolio of
implemenltationi of        reports by WB and donors.   projects.
subprojects.
HUDF is able to spin off its
T/A Component              Provisional traininlg by                               pre-feasibility work to the
Saunas Technology                                     ALAL over time.
Institute.
Matching Grants Capital    Clear criteria set up for   Clear separation of funding   Significant cofinancinig is
Fund (MGCF)                allocation of grant funds for  sources (loan v. grant) by  arranged for the MGCF.
projects of broader        subproject/municipal ity
economic/social
justification.



38
Annex 2
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Detailed Project Description, City/Municipality Profiles
Project Objectives and Description
I.  The project objective is to make financing available for infrastructure investments in smaller and
medium  Lithuanian municipalities, in support of continuing Government reform of local government
finance. The three project components are: (i) a Iine of credit to finanice viable investmentsuibloanls; (ii) a
technical assistance to help bring bankable projects for finanicing at the municipal level, (iii) the MGCF to
provide grants to small municipalities for projects with broader economic benefits and costs, and
encourage adherence to national and international development goals.
Project Approach and Project Area
2.  The project aims to expand and support intermediary institUtionIs necessary to assist municipalities in
planning, preparation, design and finanice of viable infrastructure projects in a transparent, economic and
efficient manner. The HUDF will act as the lead intermediary in the first phase of the project.
3.  Borrowing criteria. Detailed criteria are specified in the main text and in the Operations Mantial.
All municipalities will be invited to participate in the MDP. VihliLus andKaulias cities could participate
in submitting investment proposals, but the maximum size of asubloani will be $5 million. The minimum
size will $100,000 and most subprojects are likely to fall in the range of $300,000-$1 million. As shiown
in Annex 3, projects from more thani a dozen towns (expected to grow to nearly 30 subprojects from more
than 20 muinicipalities in the first year of the programii ) have been submitted in principle (initial
application).
4. Subprojects will be evaluated usilng the following principles and the detailed eligibility criteria
contained in the main part of the PAD and in the Operations Manual:
(a)  Project identification and selection shouild be conducted in an open manner and in accordance
with agreed-upon local strategic goals, national sector priorities, and environimenital and social
objectives. These concerns should be incorporated into the Strategic Investment Profile
required as part of project submission (see HUDF's Operations Manual);
(b) Subprojects should include institutional reforms to improve efficiency and cost-recovery,
establishing capital vs. operating budget distinctions and instituting a managemenit training
program. When borrowing is undertaken by a municipal enterprise, a performance contract
between the enterprise and its municipal owners needs to be developed and signed prior to
disbursement;
(c)  Borrowers and municipal guarantors should demonstrate fiscal prudence and borrowing
capacity sufficient to repay the loan; and
(d) Subprojects in Category A (loan only - - see annex 6) should have an acceptable financial rate
of return (above 12 percent) and must demonstrate economic viability. Subprojects in category
B (grant/loan combination) may have lower financial rates of return (minimum 5 percent) but
must have an acceptable economic rate of return (above 12 percent).



39
4.  Feasibility reviews. To contain the costs of detailed feasibility studies, the following steps will be
taken:
* Lithuanian consulting firms will be designated as main consultants, with foreign ones acting in a
quality assurance role as subconsultants in major assignments only. Where donor funds are
contingent on a foreign consultant as lead consultant, Lithuanian contractors should have a
minimum of 40% of project responsibility, to ensure adequate technology transfer (contingent on
precise donor requirements);
*  reporting requirements for the feasibility studies should be condensed;
* "single responsibility contracting" (turnkey or design and construct) should be used where
feasible; and
*  similar types of assignmenits should be grouped into umbrella contracts using common features
of project design according to the type of project. e.g. solid waste, district heating, etc.
5.  Subproject pipeline. Representative pilot subprojects are under preparation in all subsectors; solid
waste management in Panevezys, water supply in Telsiai, district heating in Birzai and several other
municipalities) and street lightinig in Kaunas. Additional demonstration projects in wastewater treatment
(Vilkijos and Ramuciai-Kametava) and urban infrastructure revitalization (Uzipis, Vilnius) will be
explored, but sectoral preference will be balanced by the purpose of enabling local investment choice and
responsibility. All subprojects will need to be appraised by HUDF.
6.  Panevezys solid waste and Telsiai water projects have detailed feasibility studies and will prepare
bidding documents for detailed design. Birzai has developed a good district heating project concept and
will ulidertake a feasibility study, in accordance wvitih TOR as stated in the MCF Manual of Procedures.
The first four projects are summiiarized below as indicative of the type of investments under consideration:
*  Panevezys is the fifth largest municipality in Lithuania, with a population of 133,000, located
150 km  northi of Vilnius. Solid waste collectioni in the townl has been arranged through
municipality owned (93%) AB Panevezio Specialus Autotransportas (PSA). PSA also operates
the fully mullicipality owned landfill 12 km outside the town. The collection system utilizes
conitainers in the densely built up areas and scheduled collection on single family house areas.
The containiers and collection trucks are aged and in need of replacement. The landfill does not
have a weigh station, so the annual aggregate amount of the garbage is only estimated (250,000
m3/yr). The landfill, whicih is estimated to have three to five years of operating life left, is not
lined and may be estimated to contaminate groundwater at least locally. The waste is compacted
with a bulldozer only. The completed part of the fill is not covered. The proposed investment
includes an institutional development program and physical investments in the collection system
(trucks and containers) and in landfill operations (compactor and weighbridge). The project cost
is US$1,779,000, and sustainable operations and debt service require annual tariff increases as
follows: 1998 30%, 1999 30%, 2000 25% and 2001 20%. Capping and aftercare of the already
filled part of the landfill will be considered as a follow-on investment. The project would have a
beneficial impact on the environment as solid waste would be systematically collected, disposed
of, and where possible material would be recycled.
* Telsiai is a small town (35,000 persons) in the north whose economy is based on providing
services to the surrounding agricultural region and small industries. Water demand has fallen
drastically during recent years from  3.86 million to 1.31 million m3 per annum. This
development has left the town with a lot of unused capacity in an aging water supply system.
Although there is excess capacity, the system has many pressing energy saving and renovation
needs. The project costs of US$1,334,000 include rehabilitation of the main distribution
pumping station and electrical installations at the treatment plant and at the well fields, a spare



40
submersible pump and installation of the SCADA management information system. The fixed
assets of the municipal water enterprise, TelsiaiWater, are substantially undervalued resulting in
understated depreciation and overstated profit. Tariffs do not reflect cost recovery and should be
increased significantly (the tariff was raised in March from 2.4 to 3 Lt/m3). With the fall in water
revenues, the need for installing cost savings measures through greater efficiencies in water
operations becomes more urgent.
* The town of Birzai has 16,000 residents out of 38,500 people within the municipal jurisdiction.
The local district heating system, fed by three boilers, currently serves 54% of the housing stock
and most commercial and public buildings. Slightly more than half of customer heat exchangers
are metered. One of the boilers is significantly overbuilt, and while serving only 5% of customer
demand, it is responsible for roughly 50% of the system's financial losses. The initial project
idea is to replace the boiler with gas-fired furnaces and construct a gas supply network. Several
other viable options, including reconfiguration of the supply network, closing of the boiler, or
conversion to cheaper fuel alternatives, would be considered as part of a complete feasibility
study.
* Kaunas Street Lighting Project. This project would cost around $2.5 million and would involve
replacement of all of the city's mercury based light bulbs with sodium-based bulbs and
replacement of the armatures. The Kaunas Power Department estimates that upon completion of
the project, annual energy savings could be as high as $500,000 per year. A technical feasibility
study is being carried out by the Kaunas Institute of Technology to confirm the estimated
savings, and if these are correct, the project would be viable with a payback of 7-8 years. The
ihplemeniting agency of the project would be the Kaunas City Power Department.



41
Annex 3
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                               Local            Foreign         Total
US $ million
A. Investment Component: Subproject financing
Civil works in municipalities and                                    8.7             16.1         24.8
Equipment purchases
(Items will cover civil works and equipment for district
heating, water, sanitation, solid waste systems, urban
renewal, street lighiting, energy insulation in schools)
B. Technical Assistance
Policy advice, feasibility studies, preparation of tender           2.63              7.10         9.73
documents, bid review procedures and reporting,
monitoring and evaluation
C. Institution building for Housing and Urban
Development Foundation                                              0.8              0.2           1.0
(Office techinology, staff, vehicles)
D. Fee                                                                               0.2           0.2
Total Project Cost                                                  12.13           23.6          35.73
Note:
This table includes indicative costs associated with the IBRD loan under Lithuania's Municipal
Development Program. Cross financing between NIB and IBRD loans would be arranged on a subproject by
subproject basis. A similar arrangement could be made with EIB. Technical Assistance (TA) shown in this table
apply to all subprojects under Lithuania's subprojects under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program. The
indicative TA program costs are based on estimates that include the NIB's 20.0 million ECU loan.
Counterpart funding and grant needs would escalate commensurately with the inclusion of eligible
subprojects financed by participating IFIs under Lithuania's Municipal Development Program.
Estimated TA needs for the first two years have been addressed.  Further donor support would be
considered, in part, on the basis of satisfactory performance of the Municipal Development Program. The TA
components are modular; therefore, the scope of the TA would also be adjusted to meet available level of donor
support.



Annex 3a: Indicative Subproject Pipeline and Costs
1          2           3          4          5           6             7          8          9        10
Preparation level  -*       10%        10%          10%        10%        10%         10%           10%        10%        10%      10%
Pipeline of Sub-projects
Estimated
preparation                                                                Estimated cost                                                                              TOR' for    Con' for
level           ID No'                         Type                      thous. USD           SIP,       PDorIS2  TOR' for FS Con' for FS   PCD'         FS'        DD&PD        DD&PD   DD&PD"   SLA"
Panev68ys municipality                                                               (+)
75%      MDOIPANI           solid waste                                       1780.00                                  *+               +             97.12.01     98. 10.27.  Negotiations with Consultant
Teltiai district municipality                                                        (+)
75%      MD02TE             water supply                                       280.00                                  +                              9 0  97.12.01    98.10.27.  Negotiations with Consultant
20%      MD03TE             district heating                                  1,500.f0                     +
Siauliai municipality                                                                (+)
10%      MD06SIAl           water & sewerage                                  1,750.00
Kaunas municipality                                                                 (+)
35%      MD07K1             street lighting                                   2,500.00                      +          +        12/11/98
Lazdijai district municipality                                                       (+)
20%      MD13LA             Ltepaiingis district heating                       375 00                                  +
30%      MD12LA             Lazdijai water quality improvement                 625.00                      +           +
Radvilikis district municipality                                                    (            +
30%      MD11RAD            Radviliftiswastewaterproject                      1,500.00                                 +
Kaunas district municipality                                                   under preparation
5%      MDIOK               Babtai district heatng                           1,000.00
25%      MD1t0K             Vilkijos & Ramuciai--Karmelava waste water        1,250.00                     +           +
5%      MD10K               Kaunas distrct landrll                           1,125.00                                                                                                                                 t>
Anykttiai district municipality                                                under preparation
25%      MDO0AN             district heating                                  1 00.00                      *           +
Bir7ai municipality                                                            under preparation
10%     MDW9BIRZ            district heating                                  1,000.00+
Rokiskis district municipality                                                 under preparation
5%                          Rokiskds district heaing project                 1,155.00
5%                          Rokiskis solid waste project                       812.50
TOTAL                                           17.652,50
90% OF TOTAL                                    15.887 25
Identification number of Sub-project
Project descrption or Initial Study
Strategic Investment Profile
Terms of Reference for preparation of Feasibility Study
Selected Consultanl for preparation of Feasibility Study
Project Concept Document
Feasibility Study
Terms of Reference for preparation of Detail Design and Procurement Documents
Consultant for preparation of Detail Design and Procurement Documents
Detail Design and Procurement Documents
Subsidiary loan agreement



Annex 3b: Implementation Cycle of Subprojects within Municipal Development Project
5. FS preparation and consideration      4. Procurement of consultant serices to prepare FS
by the City Council                    4.1 Preparation of TOR for the consultants
Sa. FEASIBILITY STUDY                    4.2 Drawing up cost estimate
5b. MINUTES BY THE COUNCIL                4.3 Short list of consultants (3-6)
TO OBTAIN THE LOAN AND                4.4 Preparation of Request for Proposal
IMPLEMENT THE SUB-PROJECT   4.5 Acceptance of Proposals
IN COMPLIANCE WITH                    4.6 Evaluation of technical and financial proposals
THE FS RECOMENDATIONS                 4.7 Negotiation and signing the contract
Sc. PERMISSION BY THE MoF TO    4a. CONSULTANT CONTRACT TO
BORROW                                    PREPARE THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
6. Evaluation of FS inception and final
reports
6.1 Payments to the consultant                                                                  3 SIP consideration by tbe City Council and Bon
6.2 Presentation of the sub-project to the                                                      31 IIPS approval by the Council
Loan Committee of the HUDF                                                                      3.1 PliParal  by             the Council
6a. RESPOND TO LG REGARDING                                                                     3.2 Poltical decision on pled m easna iloty Study (riSr)
LOAN APPROVAL BY THE LOAN                                                                        Su-rjc,hvnprprdeailtytdy()
COMMITEE                                                 5                                   3a MINUTES BY THE COUNCIL TO PREPARE FS
3b. LETTER BY THE BOARD REGARDINC                          4
6                                               COMMITMENT TO CONTRIBUTE A SHARE OF TA
v  3          AND ASSIGNMENT OF A PERSON RESPONSIBLE
FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUB-PROJ ECT
7. Procurement of consultant                                                                       2. SIP assessment
services for Detail Designing                    7                                  2            2.1 Does the selected sub-project
(1D) and preparation of bidding                                                                     comply with the eligibility criteria?
documentation (BD) for                                     -U             4                      2a. RESPOND TO LG REGARDING
procurement of works/goods                                 8                                     IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
(process the same as in p.4)                                                                      SUB-PROJECT AND TA
7a. CONSULTANCY AGREEMENT to                                                                       PROVISION
PREPARE DD and BD
8. Signing of Subsidiary Loan           1. Iafrastructure investment priority strategy
Agreement, bidding for procurement of   1.1 Local Government (LG) budget analysis
works/goods. disbursement of          1.2 Muniicipal Enterprise financial analysis
funds and payment of invoices         1.3 Analysis of infrastructure sectors
8a. SUBSIDIARY LOAN                     la. STRATEGIC INVESTMENT PROFILE (SIP)
AGREEMENT FOR THE SUB-                  lb. NECESSARY FUNDS AND TECHNICAL
PROJECT                                 ASSISTANCE (TA) for IMPLEMENTATION OF
8b. CONTRACT to PROCURE                 PRIORITY SUB - PROJECT
WORKS/SERVICES                       Ic. SUB - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN



44
Annex 4
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Diagram of Project Organizational Structure
lvnistky  Frnanoe
BOnTOw $20m from World Bank
Designate HCF to implenent
Uthuania Housing Credit
Foundaton                 Sub-loan agrents
.               t._ithA~~~Wh   icipalities 
Apprase subloans
Disbuise iant finds
TFechnical assistance (for
80%) of FNCOSts  contJactingprocecres)
and information exchage)
Agreeient                 __
It w    w  {  ConsultarS      > - >            ~Municipalities
Consultants and                           *2(D/O~
nhircipalities      *1  " (/
Prepare project      -       [Develop brief strategic plan and
feasibility studies  of FS    identify priotity bankable projects
costs
VMunicdpal Enterpise
Receives fxmds guaranteed by
mtmnicipality. Signs perfcrmnce
conatr



45
Annex 5
Lithuania Municipal Development Loan
Financial and Project Design Summary 5
Years Eiidinig
US$ imiillioni
lIlplemiienitationi Period
1999 - 2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs                         24.3
Recurrenit Costs                         10.93
Total
Financinig Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD                                     20.10
Co-financiers                            10.73
Goveriiient
Central/
Local                                  5.0
User Fees/Beneficiar-ies
Total                                 35.73
Main assumptions:
Project costs include
1 3 percent for local and I I percent for foreign cost physical contingelicies
10 percent for local and 7 percent on foreign cost price contingenicies.
Estimation of Credit Loan Amount
It is assumed that there will be two types of subloans: (i) Group A: those that do not receive
grants; and (ii) Group B: those that receive grants in addition to the subloans under the credit line.
Group A
1.    Traditional municipal infrastructure projects with strong cost-recovery potential and clear
economic payback. i.e. district heating, water supply/sanitation and urban transport.
2.     About $12 million (about 60 percent of the World Bank line of credit) would fall in this category,
made up of about 20 subloans amounting to an average of $500,000 per subloan.
Group B
1.     Subprojects that have wider social and economic benefit i.e. solid waste management, renovation
of schools, or local roads as part of a regional network.
5 Details to be filled out after Negotiations discussions with NIB and EIB.



46
2.     About $8 million of the credit line (40 percent of the MDP) is expected to be in Group B, with
subloan size of around $400,000 (lower because of grant supplements).
Given the above, HUDF would appraise about 40 subprojects over 4-5 years implementation
period, or about 10 projects per year. Tllis is feasible if HUDF staff is supplemented according to the PIU
staffing plan.
Financial Terms
The IBRD loan to MOF will be on1 standard IBRD terms. The MOF will pass the proceeds of the
subloans on to the municipalities with a markup of 1 percent to cover overhead and markup for HUDF
risk. The maturity term for the sLibloans could range up to 17 years depending on1 the nature of the
investment and corresponding to the benefit stream of the subproject. Similarly, the grace period should
be tailored according to the cash flow. Normally, repayments would commence after completing physical
works on the subproject and not later than one quarter of the whole subloan period. Credit risk of the
borrowing mullicipality or its enterprise would be supported by revenue collateral arrangements under the
Equalization FunLd.



47
Annex 6
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Procurement, Disbursement Arrangements and Financial Management
PROCUREMENT
I.    The proposed Municipal Development Project (MDP) will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed
US$20-million Municipal Development Loan from IBRD), from some grant funds and from the contributions of the
local governments in Lithuaniia. A loan of US$24 million from Nordic Investmenit Bank (NIB) will complement the
program. The total cost of the whole principal development program wotld be $68 million.
2.     Procurement activities under the project will fall uLider one of the following areas: (i) civil works, (ii) goods,
(iii) turnkey-type works includinig the supply and installationi of needed goods, and (iv) consulting services. The
procurement of civil works, turnkey-type works, and goods to be financed from  the Bank-loan proceeds in
conjunction with other co-financed fuLids will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines of 1995
amended as of January 1999. The Bank-loani proceeds will be used for providing sub-loans to municipalities for
Bankable or economically justifiable investmenlt projects. The consulting services will be procured following the
respective co-financiers' procedures. The project components, their estimated cost, and procurement methods are
summarized In Annex 6, Table A. All other procurement informationi, including the capability of the implementinlg
agency, the threshlolds for procurement methods and the Bank's revieNv process, is presented in Annex 6, Table B.
3.    In the past operations involvinig muniicipalities the Banki founid that the difficulties municipalities faced in
reconciling their political roles with the administrative duties in complying with the loan covenants, especially in the
procuremenit area, resulted in project implementation delays.  Therefore, Housinig and Urban Development
Foulidationl (HUDF), the institution responsible for providing techilical assistance to the municipal sub-borrowers of
the Bank-loani proceeds, will in addition to assessing munticipal eligible criteria for sub-loans, feasibility reviews, and
subproject appraisals, should also help the sub-borrowers in preparing bidding documents and in ensuring that the
sub-borrowers handle procurement strictly following the Bank Guidelinies.
4.     HUDF's staff that will be responsible for procuremenit will inciLide the PIU Manager trained in the Bank's
advanced-level procurement courses, a Procuremenit and Disbursemenit Specialist with experience in the Bank-
finaniced procuremenit and an expatriate senior Procurement Adviser. Also, the Bank's Regional Office will provide
necessary assistance to HUDF in procurement administrationi and supervision of sub-borrowers. The HUDF is
implementing the Bank's ongoing Housing Pilot and Energy Efficiency Loan. Senior Procurement Specialist from
the Bank visited Lithuaniia to assess the adequacy of the PIU to handle procurement, and to advise on the training
needs to equip the PIU's procurement staff with necessary skills in drafting bidding documents following Bank's
standard bidding documents, in evaluating bids and in contract administration in a timely manner. His report was
favorable (project files).
DISBURSEMENT
5.     Since the program to be implemented will comprise several small bankable projects of the municipal sub-
borrowers, the disbursement will be handled through the statement of expenses. The arrangements on disbursement
are discussed below.
6.     Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed over a five-year period (Annex 6). The disbursement categories
and the percentages of expenditures to be financed by the proposed loan are shown in Table C.
7.     To facilitate disbursement, the Government would establish a Special Account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank which will be drawn down by the HUDF. The HUDF will authorize disbursements to the
contractors.



48
8.    An initial deposit of US$500,000 would be made available for the Special Account
for HUDF upon Loan effectiveness. The Bank would replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof
of incurred eligible expenses, accompanied by a bank statement and reconciliation of the Special Account. Payments
for expenditures prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, except for withdrawals, in aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1999.
9.    The HUDF would maintain the Special Account for loan-financed components and would keep them
separately from any existing accounts. All disbursements would need to be fully documented except for all operating
costs, expenditures for goods and works under contracts costing less thaii $200,000 equivalent, and for expenditures
of consultants' services under contracts costing less than (i) $100,000 for firms, and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by' notice to the Borrower.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (FMS) AND ACCOUNTING: CAPACITY OF THE PIU
10.   HUDF was established in 1996 as a public institution and is wholly owned by the MoF. Its main function
originally was to design and implement housing works and energy efficiency projects in Vilnius and other
municipalities in the country. In that year, the HUDF was selected to be the PIU for the Housing Pilot/Energy
Efficiency Loan. Presently, HUDF is also involved in the preparation of a Mortgage Credit Development Project,
being financed by the Danish Ministry of Economy. Since HUDF has been involved with Bank projects, it is familiar
with the World Bank's requirements and procedures.
I1.   The company is managed by its Board of Directors with a Managing Director vested with the authority to
look after the daily operations of the project. The Board has representation from the MoF, the Ministry of Public
Administration Reform and Local Authorities (MPARLA). the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Environment and
the Association of Municipalities. The following persons constitute the internal capacity for the project (HUDF also
supplements its capacity through bringing in local consultants as needed).
Name                    Title                     Responsibilities
Mr. Aloyzas Vitkauskas    Managing Director   Leads the HUDF, provides strategic vision,
Joins all policy meetings on the project with
the MoF and other governmental agencies.
Mr. Viktoras Sirvydis    Manager              Project coordinator and good knowledge of
HUDF operations.
Mr. Dmitrijus Apockinas   Financial analyst   Reviews financial aspects of subprojects.
Mr. Andrius Tamosiunas   Procurement/Disburse  Handle disbursements to municipalities and
ment Specialist      contractors, in conjunction with the
responsible commercial banks.
Mrs. Rima Sileikiene     Project administrator   Project related office duties.
Mrs. Diana Maniusiene    Chief Accountant     Accounting, banking procedures, currency,
Salaries, tax issues and currency, salaries, tax
issues and reports to departments as tax,
Social security.
Mr.Rimas Jankevicuis     Accountant           Assists the Chief Accountant.
12.   In terms of staffing, an adequate number of personnel are presently involved with the financial management
and accounting function, but the organization will need additional staff as the number of subprojects grow. One or two
additional accountants will be needed by the end of the first year of the project to work on loan accounting. The staff
is quite familiar with accounting policies and standards under the Lithuanian Law. They are however not well-
acquainted with the Bank's new requirements on Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), and therefore a



49
training program is being developed to address this issue. Though this project is not necessarily subject to LACI
compliance, efforts are being made to ensure compliance. Traditional SOE based disbursement procedures will be
followed during the initial part of the implementation period and after the first audit, PMR based disbursement may be
considered.
Funds Flow Mechanism
13.    The GOL has opted to use the Euro and dollars as its currencies of choice for the project. Disbursement of
funds will be both dollars and Euro-based on the standard SOE system into the Special Account to be established at a
commercial bank satisfactory to the World Bank.  The Special Accounts should be established in a reputed
commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank.  The MoF will on-lend these proceeds to various municipal
institutions through the PIU. On-lending to the various sub projects will be based on the Euro,subborrowers would
bear currency exchange risk.
Accounting Systems
14.    The volume of transactions hanidled by the PIU at present is around 100 payment orders per month amounting
to about one million Litas. These payment orders are the source documents. No other vouchers are used as source
documents.
15.    Cash transactions are restricted to payment of some staff salaries and otherpetty expenses. Salaries are paid
twice a month and withdrawal of cash is done from the commercial bank in the presence of the Chief Accountant and
is transported back to office. Struictured back-iup procedures need to be developed for the accounting records.
16.   The PIU reports on a quarterly basis to the MoF and the State Control Department in special forms and
produces close to 15 reports every quarter. Efforts will be made to replace these reports with Project Management
Reports (PMRs) to satisfy the needs of the MoF and the Bank.
Computer Systems
1 7.   A Swedish accounting software, Hiansa Classic, is currently being used at the HUDF for its own incomes and
expenditure recording but not for project accouLntinig (done manually). The system falls short of the requirement for
the current project because it is not capable of handling multi-currency accounting and is restrictive in multi-year
project accountinig. Additionally, reports required under LACI would not be easily accessible. This software is not
Y2K compatible as yet, but is being made so.
18.   The hardware present in the PIU is adequate to meet the needs of computer based finance and accounting
system needed for the project with each person allocated a desktop with a 64MB Ram memory, minimum of Pentium
11 300 MHz processor and a hard disk capacity of 4.3 GB. All desktops are networked and connected to a common
printer. All employees have access to the Internet from their individual desktops.
19.   All employees are familiar with the Windows environment and are able to work on spreadsheets. The
computers have Windows 98 with MS Office 97 loaded on.
20.    An off-the-shelf computerized accounting system  is being customized to facilitate the accounting and
reporting requirements for the project. Consultants are being recruited to ensure the proper functioning of this
software and its reporting capabilities. The proposed software adheres to IAS requirements and includes among
others a general ledger module, fixed assets module and a procurement module. Consultants are customizing the
software to facilitate the automated generation of PMRs. It is expected that the software would be installed by May
31, 1999.



50
Internal Control Mechanism
21.    The current internal controls systems are not adequate and lapses have been noticed in the areas of proper
back-up procedures, handling of cash transactions and the absence of a sound audit trail.
22.    With the introduction of the new accounting system, a training program would be introduced to improve the
internal controls. The organizational structure and responsibilities would be modified to ensure that staff handling
cash transaction is not at the same time responsible for keeping the books of accounts. Source documents would be
standardized and coded to facilitate computer entry.  Steps will be taken to introduce computerized source
documentation whichi would reduce the need for multiple entry of data.
23.    The proposed accounting software would have to be verified to ensure proper back up facilities on a regular
basis. Storage of back-up data will be determined prior to installation of the software. The audit trail of the
accounting system would also be tested for compliance prior to installationi.
24.    Auditors would undertake an annual review of internal controls.
Audit
25.    HUDF accounts are audited by KPMG, external auditors who carry out independent audit of the books. It is
expected that the same auditors would be retained to carry out the audit of the project accounts. Once the project is
approved, the currenlt scope of the auditors would be expanded to include the audit of the current project accounts
(including the Special Accoulits) as well as to review the interinal controls in the organization.
Key Steps
The following steps will be taken to strengthen the FMS aspects:
1.    Installationi of the necessary accounting software.
2.     Developmenit of the chart of accounts for the project.
3.     Agreement on the Project Management reports to be presented to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
4.     Development of a financial and accountinig training program.
5.     Establishment of the Special Accounts.



51
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements6
(In US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB        Other     N.B.F
1. Municipal Investment
Projects
1. 1. Extension of Essential                        19.8        5.0        24.8
Infrastructure, including                       (19.8)                 (19.8)
district heating, energy
efficiency renovations,
water supply, wastewater
treatment, solid waste
management, road
repairs, etc. in municipal
areas comprising civil
works and equipmenit.
2. Technical Assistance
2.1. TA for feasibility                                        6.80          6.80
studies/Designi & Bidding
Documllenitation &
SLupervisioll.
2.2. Training (ALAL).                                           0.83         0.83
2.3 MuLicipal Institutionial                                    0.5           0.5
Developmenit Funld
3. Expansion of HUDF
Capacities
3.1 Expansion of HUDF's                                         2.6          1.00
project preparationl and
analysis capacity to
address a broader scope
of municipal
development.
19.8      15.73         35.53
Total                                      (19.8)                   (19.8)
Note:  N.B.F.   Not Bank-financed  includes elements procured  under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under grant funds, and any other miscellaneous items.
6 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



52
Other procedures include procurement through International Shopping (IS), and National
Shopping for goods and through minor works procurement procedures (3 offers) for civil
works and turnkey-type works.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Total figure excludes $0.2 front-end IBRD fee.



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1. Procurement Review
Category                                      ICB                 NCB*           Minor Works (3 offers)         Is                NS
1. Civil Works
1. 1. Procurement thresholds              >$0.8 million     <$0.8 to 0.2million>      <$0.2 million            N/A               N/A
1.2. Prior Review                             Yes          Yes for contracts 0.5          No                                     N/A
million                                            No
2. Goods
2.1. Procurement Thresholds                 >$200,000              N/A                    N/A               <$200,000          <$50,000
2.2. Prior Review                              Yes                 N/A                    N/A                  Yes               N/A
3. Consultant Services                    Cofinanciers'
Procedures
3. 1. Procurement Thresholds                  -do-
3.2. Prior Review                             -do-                 __ _
t Note ECA's Regional Document for NCB based on the Bank's SBDSW for Smaller Contracts will be used. ECA
will provide a sample for Minor Works.
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements                           U
5. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing procurement will rest with the Lithuanian Housing Credit Foundation responsible for providing technical  ua
to the municipal sub-borrowers of Investment Projects.
6. After negotiations, a senior Procurement  7. Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year be ready by negotiations?
Specialist will visit Lithuania to provide    No. ECA Regional Documents will be used
assistance to strengthen PIU's management
capacity to procure under Bank Guidelines.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
8. Estimated date of Project  9. Estimated date of General   10. Indicate if there is procurement   11. Domestic   12. Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop: 06/30/99  Procurement Notice publication:   subject to mandatory SPN in        Preference for     Consultant Services: No
N/A                               Development Business: No.         Goods/Works: No
13. Retroactive financing: No    14. Advanced Procurement:       No.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Name of Procurement Staff Member on the Project Team: Takao Ikegami          Division: ECSIN              Ext. 32334
16. Brief description of the role expected of the Field Office in Procurement: the Regional Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to HFC.



54
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount in         Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Line of Credit for Subloans              19.8      100 percent of a subloan.
Category A: When WB only finances the               WB financing percentage As
the subproject                          above. Statement of expenditures
submitted quarterly.
Category B: When WB and participating               WB credit line and participating
IFI cross-finance the                   IFI finance 100% of subloan.
subproject
In both cases, grants may supplant
other sources of financing under
agreed criteria.
Operating Principles:
I1.    The subloan will not exceed 90 percent of the subproject costs, excluding taxes.
2.    Technical assistance training and investment grants will be cofinanced with grants from Donor
countries (Denmark, Finland and Sweden).



55
Annex 7
Lithuania Municipal Development Project 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
256,300              235,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          24                   27
First Bank mission (identification)             04/01/1996           04/01/1996
Appraisal mission departure                     02/01/1998           06/29/1998
Negotiations                                    10/31/1998           04/07/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/1999
Prepared by: MPARLA, HUDF
Preparation assistance: PHRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Jeffrey Balkind                    Program Team Leader
Gailius Draugelis                  Project Finance/Deputy Team Leader
Fred Olowin                        Urban Planner (consultant)
Juliana Pigey                      Financial Policy (consultant)
Kimberly Cartwright                Social Assessment Specialist (consultant)
Kari Johansson                     Municipal Engineer/Environment Specialist
C.P. Ranganathan                   Procurement Specialist
Yoshine Uchimura/Kristin Gilbertson   Project Development
Mats Andersson                     Municipal Finance
7 Disbursement schedule will be filled out at Negotiations after discussion with the NIB as cofinancing on subprojects has to be
confirmed which will affect the pace of disbursements.



56
Annex 8
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursements              Cumulative
and Quarter               by Quarter               Disbursements
by end Quarter
FY 1999
4th Quarter
FY2000
I st Quarter            -
2nd Quarter            0.5                       0.5
3rd Quarter            0.8                        1.3
4th Quarter            0.8                       2.1
FY2001
1 st Quarter           0.9                       3.0
2nd Quarter            0.9                       3.9
3rd Quarter            1.0                       4.9
4th Quarter            1.0                       5.9
FY2002
I St Quarter           1.0                       6.9
2nd Quarter            1.3                       8.2
3rd Quarter            1.7                       9.9
4th Quarter            1.7                       11.6
FY2003
I st Quarter           1.5                       13.1
2nd Quarter            1.3                       14.4
3rd Quarter            1.0                       15.4
4th Quarter            0.8                       16.2
FY2004
I st Quarter           0.6                       16.8
2nd Quarter            0.6                       17.4
3rd Quarter            0.6                       18.0
4thi Quarter           0.5                       18.5
FY2005
1 st Quarter           0.4                       18.9
2nd Quarter            0.4                       19.3
3rd Quarter            0.4                       19.7
4th Quarter            0.4                       20.1



57
Annex 9
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Panevezys Solid Waste Management Subproject: Social Assessment
1.    Experience has shown that solid waste projects are among the most difficult/sensitive projects to implement
from the social impact viewpoint. Issues range from affordability of the project to location of landfills near residing
populations. Thus, it was decided to conduct a social assessment (SA) on the planned $1 million investment in the
Panevezys Solid Waste subproject. The project involves an improved collection system, but there will not be any
financing of a new landfill nor of improvements to the existing landfill. In light of a feasibility study which
concluded that sewage from the landfill is leaking into the municipal water supply, the social assessment has flagged
the decision to focus exclusively on waste collection as a potentially serious one in need of re-examination. It is
recommended that two covenants are included in the loan agreement (or stated in a side letter to the loan): first, waste
which will be collected by containers financed by the Bank will be placed in the new landfill (which the Bank has
assessed to be properly insulated); and second, the Panevezys Municipality will remediate the existing landfill and
present an action plan to the Bank which states the time period, activities to be undertaken, and sources of financing.
2.     The social assessment was conducted to ascertain the level of demand for new containers and for renovation
of the existing landfill, to determine the likely impact on beneficiaries, and to understand the roles, responsibilities,
strengths and areas of concern expressed by various project stakeholders. The social assessment consisted of two
major activities: (a) consultations with residents living in Panevezys, the project area, and Liudyne, a neighboring
suburb in close proximity to the municipal landfill, officials at the social protection offices, engineers and staff at the
municipal solid waste company and private consultants who had conducted the feasibility study; and (b) a household
survey of 1,200 residents investigating current waste management practices (e.g. waste generated, collection type,
frequency and regularity, tariffs paid, recycling) attitudes towards current service provision, living standards, and the
perceived feasibility of several investment scenarios and the perceived capability of authorities to carry them out
successfully.
A.    METHODOLOGY
Stakeholder Consultations
I.    A feasibility study conducted by DHV Consultants (Netherlands) and UAB EKO  RIVI (Lithuania)
highliglhted several prominent issues of public concern, which could have serious implications for project
sustainability if not addressed and considered in project design and implementation. One of these issues brought to
light a group of stakeholders, residents of neighboring Liudyne, who although they do not live within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the Panevezys municipality, are affected by both a privately operated landfill and the
municipal landfill in the vicinity.  The feasibility study also provided the necessary technical and financial
information regarding the proposed investments, including an institutional analysis of ABA PSA (the municipal solid
waste company) and an evaluation of environment impacts, as well as made technical recommendations for
implementation. This information thus provided the team with the building blocks to begin the stakeholder
consultations.
2.     For several years the Panevezys Municipality (city of 130,000 persons) has contemplated investing in an
improved solid waste collection and disposal system in the city. Consultations were first held withrepresentatives of
ABA PSA to identify city areas serviced by different collection and disposal methods, and to better understand the
planned investments and their implications for residents. The social team then identified the key stakeholders residing
in diverse areas of the project area (including Liudyne), paying particular attention to the poor, to residents who will
be affected by a change in service provision, and to residents identified in the consultations with ABA PSA.
3.     A content analysis of the consultations is now being prepared. The analysis will articulate major findings
from the interviews, discuss implications for project design and implementation, make recommendations for ensuring



58
continued public participation throughout the project cycle, and identify issues to be explored further in the household
survey.
Household Survey
1.    In March 1999, a household survey will be administered to 1,200 houseliolds usilng a stratified random sample
of city districts and dwelling units in Panevezys and a simple random sample of dwelling units in Liudyne. Sample
stratification is necessary in Panevezys to take into account geographical variations in service provision, as well as
variations in service resulting from the type of dwelling in whicih the resident lives. Households located in the city
center, for instance, are serviced by a mobile system of garbage collection, whereas houselholds located in other areas
tend to be provided with bulky containers for common use. Similarly, residents living in detached houses are more
likely to employ different disposal practices (e.g. composting) thanl residents living in large apartment blocks.
Another reason for stratifying the sample at the level of houselhold selection is to ensure adequate representatioll of
dwellings that are situated within a high concentration of dwellings of other types. Households in Liudyne do not
need to be stratified as they will be answering questions pertaining only to the landfills. AKish table will be used to
randomly select the respondent in each household. Substitutioni of houselholds and/or respondents by the interviewer
is strictly not allowed. A reliability check of 30 percent of houselholds will be used to verify that the correct
household member was interviewed, and asked all the questions in the questionnaire.
2.     The survey research firm carrying out the consultationis and houselhold survey, Baltic Survey, was selected
using competitive bidding procedures. The firm's director, Rasa Alisauskiene, is Professor of Sociology at Vilnius
University and has 15 years experience conductinig large scale sociological surveys on par with Western standards.
The majority of her staff has at least 10 years of experienice in survey research.
3.     Baltic Survey and the Bank have drafted the questioninaire, whicih was administered in a pre-test of 120
households in mid-February and revised accordingly. The questioniniaires will be translated in Lithuanian, Russian
and Englishi, as will the final report which will be widely distributed to the municipalities and toNGOs and other
stakeholders, and made available in the Bank.
B.     KEY ISSUES
The feasibility study raised one issue of major social and environimenital concern and another issue whichi is
very sensitive and may have possible negative healti imnpacts. Two other issues, less serious and less contenitious in
nature pertain to chaniges in service provision of waste collection and to current waste disposal practices. Both sets of
issues will be investigated further in the stakeholder consultations and in the household survey and later incorporated
into the project's design and implementationi arrangemenlts.
Issue 1: The municipal landfill located in Liudynle (not part of the project area) is not properly managed: waste is not
treated and the dumps are not lined or drained properly, so that potent and sometimes toxic liquids leach out into the
water supply. This constitutes both an environmenital and a health threat to residents. The survey will establish what
are the public health implications from poor water quality, whether citizens were aware of the water contamination,
and whether they are taking any measures to treat the water or not to consume it all together.
Issue 2: A private company landfill situated next to the municipal landfill is causing substantial odor problems for the
inhabitants of Liudyne and has lead to protest actions and even questions in Parliament. After a visit by the Ministry
of Environment, residents were not satisfied with promises of measures and threatened to blockade the road to the
municipal landfill. They have apparently confused issues of the private company landfill with that of the municipal
plant. They are opposed to the plans to construct a new landfill compartment at the municipal plant and demand
closure of the whole landfill. The survey will assess the current situation, ascertain what has been done to educate
citizens about the two landfills, and summarize the main concerns and solutions perceived by the residents.
Issue 3: The municipality plans to change from a mobile system of garbage collection (currently serving 40 percent
of all houselholds in Panevezys) to a container system in which residents would place their waste in containers located



59
outside their dwellings. The trucks and the containers currently used are very old and require renovation and new
equipment needs to be purchased. The survey will establish how willing are residents to pay for this new service,
including those residents who are already provided with containers.
Issue 4: The municipality plans to invest in a sorting plant for mixed municipal waste and separate collection of some
households in Panevezys is already taking place.  However, the market for recycled materials still remains
underdeveloped and the costs of continuing the separate collection is higher than discontinuation. The municipality
wants to proceed with recycling, claiming that residents will oppose discontinuation. The solid waste project will
need to include a public information campaign to educate the public in recycling practices. The survey will establish
where recycling ranks among local priorities.
Other issues concern the ability of households to afford anticipated tariff increases, the institutional capacity of
the social protection offices to effectively target citizens in need of assistance, and variations in service levels so as to
allow all citizens to benefit from garbage collection.
C.    POSSIBLE PROJECT IMPLICATIONS
Since the social assessment has not been completed, it is difficult to anticipate what the results will be and
how they in turn will impact on project design and implementation. For those subprojects where an SA is undertaken,
mechanisms will be put into place to ensure that the findings will be incorporated into the investment plans of the
subprojects. First, the SA will be presented to the key implementers of the subprojects and made aware of any
conitroversial issues. Second, the public will be notified in the local press where they can obtain a copy of the SA and
how they can participate in further discussions. Third, the Social Advisor will keep lines of communication open with
the key implementers regarding serious issues of public concern and seek concerted action from them. Fourth,
municipalities will be encouraged to conduct public awareness campaigns to better inform  citizens about local
investments and to gain feedback on specific techinical options. The Panevezys SA will be used as a model case for
other municipalities to follow in their planned investments.
Several issues have surfaced as a result of the feasibility study that need to be addressed and considered in
implementation. First, as the municipal landfill is leaking sewage into the water supply, it is plannedthat two
covenants will be included in the subloan agreement (or stated in a side letter to the subloan): first, waste which will
be collected by containers finaniced by the Bank will be placed in the new landfill (which the Bank has assessed to be
properly insulated); and second, the Panevezys Municipality willremediate the existing landfill. HUDF will carry out
or commission an analysis that evaluates the remediation. During remnediation, water should be systematically tested
and treated to pass sanitary tests for quality. Citizens should be made aware of the potential health risks, provided
with filters and other devices to treat the water themselves, and educated about alternative water sources suitable for
drinking. Third, HUCF should be provided technical assistance for screening projects with potentially adverse
environmental impacts. Technical assistance will be provided throughi the retention of an environmental advisor who
will be financed by the Nordic countries and throughi the development of an environmental assessment manual. The
Terms of Reference (TOR) has been prepared for a local consultant to develop tools to help municipal/enterprise
officers and HUCF address environmental regulations during the course of project preparation, including preparation
of feasibility studies and engineering design documentation. The TOR covers preparation of the manual, transmittal
of results through training and documentation (about 500 copies) and is planned to be funded under the PHRD grant.
A representative from the Ministry of Environment should also be a member of the selection committee of sub-
projects.



60
Annex 10
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Social Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation (see Annex 1 for overall indicators)
Objectives             Progress Benchmarks    Evaluation Process        Assumptions
Project Development
Objectives:
1. Strengthen municipal       1.1 Increased             1I.1 Demonstration
governments, including        coordination between      thirough jointly
clarified responsibilities in the  municipal governments   sponsored events, e.g.
management of municipal       and enterprises in making  public awareness
services and greater budget    the public aware of key    campaigns, open
autonomy                      social issues and in      houses.
soliciting citizen input
into governmental
decision-making.
1.2 New institutional    1.2 NGO reports,
alliances formed and     social assessment
fLuictioninig (LG-NGO
partnerships, coordinatinig
groups, advocacy groups,
focusing on selected
areas).
2. Beginnings of a sound      2.1 Public is increasinigly  2.1 Supervision,
financial system for          made aware of, and        social assessment
municipalities and municipal   educated about, policies
einterprises                  to raise tariffs and/or
reduce staff
3. Improved operation of      3.1 Strong commullity     3.1 Supervisioni,
water/sanitation, solid waste,   participation durinig  moniitorinig from
district heating, street lighting   development and     Social Advisor, social
services, and school facilities;  implementationl of project criteria in SIP,
improved energy efficiency in  investment, especially   evidence of public
municipal buildings and       among affected groups.    awareness
facilities                                              campaigns, open
houses.
3.2 85% of residents     3.2 Regular
should be able to afford    supervision,
tariff adjustments       information from
Social Protection
agencies, social
assessments
3.3 Percentage of        3.3 Regular
residents unable to afford  supervision,
tariffs decreases over   information from
time and are adequately    Social Protection



61
Objectives             Progress Benchmarks    Evaluation Process         Assumptions
covered by Social         agencies, social
Assistance                assessments
3.4 Residents are willing   3.4 Social
to accept tariff          assessmenits
adj ustimienlts
3.5 Critical social issues   3.5 Monitoring bv
identified in the         Social Advisor, social
feasibility studies are   assessmenits
investigated further
Sector specific indicators for    Note: 3.1 - 3.4 pertain to
projects with large investment  all of the investments
portfolios                    below
Solid Waste & Landfill        Garbage collection is      Social assessmenits
frequent so that
contaiiers do not spill-
over or smell.
Residents are satisfied   Social assessments
with size and location of
containers.
Steps are taken to enforce  Regular supervision
penalties against illegal
d*umilpinlg of waste.
Citizens living in close  Social assessmenit,
proximity to the landfill   public awareness
are made aware of         campaigns
potential hazards and are
given increased
opportunities to
participate in project
preparation and
implementation.
The landfill will be re-
mediated.
An environmenital
specialist will be hired
Water and Wastewater          Increased number of        Regular supervision,
households with piped     statistical yearbooks,
cold and hot water        social assessments
Improved water quality    Social assessments,
(safe, tastes good,       information provided
reliable, and constant    by water company



62
Objectives             Progress Benchmarks    Evaluation Process         Assumptions
pressure)
Reduction in number of    Regular supervision,
leaking pipes and taps    social assessments
Water conservation is     Regular supervision,
more greatly practiced    social assessments,
public education
campaigns
District heat                 Residents are satisfied    Social assessments
with the amount of heat
supplied to their dwelling
Increased number of       Statistical yearbook
houselholds that have
boilers
Residents are able to     Regular supervision    Depends on
regulate the heat in their                      investment package
dwelling and pay
according to conIsuLmlption
Energy efficiency in schools,   Increased level of      Supervision
municipal buildings           satisfaction wvith amoullt
of heat/venitilation
supplied
4.1 Strengthened LG capacity   4.1 Increased solicitation   4.1 Social
for subproject identification  of commullity input into   assessment, Social
and preparation                local investment priorities  Criteria in SIP
and selection of projects
4.2 Joint work of ALAL and    4.2 Number of training     4.2 Monitoring by
HUDF in municipal trainilng    courses devoted to public  Social Advisor
and project screeniig         awareness and social
analysis of projects



63
Annex 11
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
SECONDED LOCAL GOVERNMENT SPECIALIST IN LITHUANIA/LATVIA
1.      Local governments play a significant role in the provision of public services in the Baltic countries8 The
World Bank has an extensive program of lending and non-lending services in Lithuania and Latvia at the local
government level; through individual investment operations, municipal development lines of credit, economic
and sector work, and advisory services. The World Bank seeks a Municipal Finance Specialist who will reside
in the Bank's resident mission in Vilnius to support its work program in Litlhuania, (with about 40 percent of
time) to be spent on Latvia municipal work.
OBJECTIVES
2.      The Bank's work program  for local government reform  aims at enhancing the creditworthiness of
municipalities and municipal enterprises by: (a) strengthening the municipal and enterprise management; (b)
modernizing the inter-governmental fiscal and municipal financial management systems; (c) improving the
municipal infrastructure and services delivery; (d) encouraging substantive dialogue between local government
and central government policy makers to facilitate local government reform and better linkages between policy
and practice.'
3.      This senior Municipal Finance Specialist will support the Bank's work program  in Latvia and Lithuania
in achieving these objectives. The consultant would be based in the World Bank resident office in during the
first year, with possibility for extension, and expected to travel frequently to the three Baltic countries. The
consultant would report tc the manager of the Lithuania and Latvia offices for administrative purposes, and
work as a member of various task teams under the direction and support of the Urban Program  Team  Leader,
PTL (Jeffrey Balkind), ECSIN Department of the Bank, in Washington, D.C. In addition, the consultant would
be expected to provide input to the country strategy development, managed by the Bank's Country Management
Unit (head office in Warsaw, Poland, under the direction of the Country Director, Basil Kavalsky). The
consultant would report to the World Bank and would be accounltable to the Bank and to SIDA. The Bank will
inform SIDA of progress on the assignment at regular intervals.
SCOPE OF WORK
4.      The Municipal Finance Specialist will help the Bank achieve its local government objectives by
participating in various Bank task teams. The MFS will:
(a)      participate  in  various Bank  task  teams to  provide  inputs during  project identification,
preparation and implementation and help resolve project preparation and implementation issues,
and alert program team leaders of new developments and need for initiatives. In particular, the
Public services such as heating, public transportation, water supply, wastewater treatment, solid waste management, and other environmental
protection, are the responsibility of local govemments: often delivered through municipal enterprises. In addition, significant components of social
services, such as education, health, and social protection, are delivered through local govemments, as delegated functions from the central govemment.
About a third of the consolidated govemments' spending is at the local govemment level. All thTee countries are rationalizing local govemment
expenditure responsibilities, modemizing financing mechanisms, and further enhancing the role of the local govemments in the society.
9       Current World Bank investment lending includes projects under implementation through local govemments in the water/wastewater, district
heating, urban transport, solid waste, and social sectors. Projects under preparation include municipal lines of credit for infrastructure development in
Lithuania and Latvia. The Bank's policy dialogue with central govemment, on macro-economic questions as well as on specific sectors. often has
implications at local govemment levels.



64
consultant is expected to play a key role in the teams of Municipal Development Projects for
municipal infrastructure development (lines of credit) in Lithuania and Latvia, respectively,
(b)     provide substantive inputs to the Bank's policy dialogue with the national governments on local
government and fiscal decentralization issues. Particular emphasis would need to be paid to
improvements in the structure of decentralized governments, significance of local government
budgets in the public sector, composition of municipal budgets, assignment of expenditure
responsibilities, revenue assignments including strengthening revenue autonomy at the local
level, system  of transfers, and decentralization of major services to local governments (i.e.
district heating in Lithuania);
(c)    together with central and local government officials prepare impact analysis of various options
which could be considered for local government finance. Particular emphasis would need to be
paid to the interaction of these options with national budget constraints, fiscal policy,
intergovernmental financial relations and to the procedures, and steps needed to ensure effective
implementation and the efficient monitoring of implementation to ensure that policies are
achieving stated policy goals, and proposals and analysis that would help policies reach their
objectives;
(c)    advise municipal and municipal enterprise management in the client countries on, among other
subjects, strategic investment planning, capital budgeting and monitoring, financial
management (incl. revenue and expenditure budgets, accounting practices, pricing/cost recovery
policies, collection procedures), regulatory frameworks, operational efficiency improvements,
access to capital market financing, and institution building at the local government level.;
(d)     provide guidance to municipal and muLnicipal enterprise management on how to develop future
alternatives to the provision of public services, e.g. contracting out to the private sector, and
privatization in some areas (e.g. remaining commercial operations, housing maintenance), the
implications of national reforn  programs on local governments, and monitoring by central
government of local government borrowinig;
(e)     liaise witlh relevant authorities and organizationis in the client countries, as required, e.g. the
Ministry of Finance and other central government entities (policy questions), associations of
local governments, donor organizations   (including  the  EU), local non-governmental
organizations, and foreign and local consultants providing technical assistance to specific
projects. With the backing of Bank analytical and policy work, help to provide these
organizations with a strategic focus within which to plan and implement policy and capacity
building programs;
(f)     assist the central government authorities in their coordination of activities in the local
government area, including legislative development, monitoring of development policy, and
investment programming and help to improve linkages between central and local government
authorities for continuous feedback on policy and practice;
(g)     develop an in-depth knowledge of the local municipal environments; advise Bank management,
program team leaders, and team members on local government matters, and respond to request
for such information (e.g. prepare briefs, reports and other documents, as required); and
The Municipal Development Project in Lithuania is expected to be approved by the Bank's Board in April 1999. The Local Government
Management Finance Project in Latvia is expected to be approved by the Bank's Board in 2000. The municipal finance specialist will be expected to
assist the Project Implementation Unit as well as the municipalities/municipal enterprises in assessing borrowing capacity, developing strategic investment
plans and facilitating preparation of subprojects as they relate to municipal finance issues under the Lithuania MDP. See attached ToR for more detailed
information on assistance to the PIU for the Lithuania MDP. A similar function is expected to be performed by the Municipal Finance Specialist in Latvia.



65
(h)    plan and coordinate regional training on local government topics for government and donor
officials, academia, and consultants, as required.
5.     The Municipal Finance Specialist will work closely with a resident environmental specialist in Riga,
and with sector staff in the Bank's offices in Riga and Vilnius. The assignment will involve significant time
spent "in the field", visiting municipalities and municipal enterprises, helping them solve immediate practical
problems.
SELECTION CRITERIA
6.     The Municipal Finance Specialist should have:
(a)    Minimum  of 10 years of relevant practical experience in the sector with demonstrated
achievements in local government, the financial sector (e.g. municipal finance institute),
relevant section of national government, or as a consultant to municipalities;  sufficient
experience and seniority to provide effective advise to central and local government officials on
municipal affairs;
(b)    Advanced degree, preferably in finance, economics, or relevant public policy area;
(c)    Thorough knowledge and understanding of inter-governmental policy questions, financing
mechanisms for municipal investments, and general municipal management (in particular
financial management);  and demonstrated ability to translate this experience into realistic
reform  programs for individual municipalities and municipal enterprises.  Good balance
between policy understanding and practical municipal management knowledge;
(d)    Strong analytical and conceptual skills, including quantitative analysis skills (for economic and
financial analysis, review of financial statements of municipalities and municipal enterprises,
etc.);
(e)    Effective interpersonal, communication and diplomatic skills; ability to work effectively as an
integral part of a multi-disciplinary team, and with government officials at all levels, including
smaller municipalities;
(f)    Good report writing and presentation skills. Good on-the-job "teaching skills", and ability to
effectively advise local government staff on operational issues;
(g)    Basic understanding of the engineering cycle, delivery of social services, and World Bank
procurement guidelines;
(h)    Initiative, creativity and ability to work under pressure;
(i)    Relevant experience from  Central/Eastern Europe, and/or other international experience.
Experience working with bilateral or multilateral aid agencies; and
(j)    Knowledge of one of the Baltic languages would be an advantage.
STEPS IN RECRUITMENT
SIDA will advertise the position. A shortlist of three suitable candidates will be interviewed by the Bank
and SIDA jointly.



66
Annex 12
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Group Terms of Reference
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
MUNICIPAL FINANCE SPECIALIST
ENVIRONMENT/WATER ENGINEER
DISTRICT HEATING EXPERT
BACKGROUND
I.    The Government of Lithuania has requested assistance from the World Bank (IBRD) and the Nordic
Investment Bank (NIB) for the support of the development of municipal financing mechanisms through
financing municipal infrastructure investments in environmental, water, district heating, solid waste
management, transportation and street lighting sectors. This request has resulted in the preparation of Lithuania
Municipal Development Program (MDP). The program seeks to provide training, technical assistance and
investment support to about 40 of the 56 Lithuanian municipalities through a credit line operation. The number
of subprojects is expected to be around 50. The total program cost is estimated at 68.1 million US$ equivalent,
and the investments at 58.2 million US$ equivalent. Donor support from Denmark, Finland and Sweden is
expected for Municipal Training and Capacity Building coordinated by the Association of Local Authorities
(1.33 inUS$), teclhnical consuiltinig services for project preparation (5.4 InUS$) and in-house technical assistance
(1.6 mUS$) to the implemenitinig agency HOLIsing Credit Founldationi (HUDF) as well as investment grant
support (5.0 mUS$) for eligible mainly environimenital investmenits. TIhe program is designed to cover a period
of four and half years and to commence summer, 1999, wl'en the IBRD loan of US$ 20 million is expected to
become effective. The NIB loan of EUR 20 million is already effective.
2.    More information, like project description, backgrouiid, objectives, subproject pipeline etc. is available
in the attached Project Appraisal Documenit.(Appendix 1).
3.    The Housing Credit Foundationi (HUDF) will act as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the
Program. HUDF has been established in 1996 to operate as the PIU for the 20 mUS$ Energy Efficiency and
Housing Pilot Project, financed externally by the World Bank. Presently, HUDF is also involved in the
preparation of the Mortgage Credit Development Project, external financing by the Danish Ministry of
Economy. The Housing Credit Foundation is expected to change its name to the Housing and Urban
Development Foundation (HUDF) to reflect its expanded responsibilities under the Municipal Development
Program. The staff strength in September 1998 before transformation to HUDF was 8 persons.
4.    The Municipal Development Program and the transformation from HUDF to HUDF poses a need to
increase considerably HUDF capacity, and at the same time widen its technical expertise to the various sectors
of infrastructure, environment financial analysis and international procurement. To facilitate this capacity
increase and transformation in such a way that the ambitious subproject implementation program can be
commenced swiftly, the program includes a technical assistance (TA) component to provide support to HUDF
particularly during the first two years of MDP. There is a separate TA support component coordinated by the
Association of Local Authorities (ALAL), which aims at improving the financing and management skills,
qualifications and systems in the municipalities themselves through ALAL. These Terms of Reference (TOR)
deal with the TA to HUDF.
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the TA support are:
To support the World Bank's work:



67
(a)   To assist the Government of Lithuania in formulating local government finance policies;
To the HUDF:
(a)    To provide the increase in capacity which HUDF needs in order to commence swiftly the
implementation of MDP. It is estimated that HUDF needs to employ or reassign also about 4 more
Lithuanian staff members (project manager, procurement officer, municipal and project financing
analyst and infrastructure and environment engineer) compared to the September 1998 level;
(b)    To increase and upgrade the procurement and disbursement capacity and skills especially within the
IBRD and NIB funded international procurement as well as within bilaterally funded tied procurement
and establish efficient procedures for managing differing procurement and disbursement requirements;
(c)    To upgrade HUDF skills in introducing strategic investment prioritizing practice to municipalities, in
supporting the preparation of the investment profiles and evaluating them;
(d)    To upgrade HUDF skills to assign consultants to carry out feasibility studies and to appraise the
resulting financial analyses;
(e)    To introduce, train and support HUDF and the municipalities in the practice of social assessment and
public consultation;
(f)    To augment and upgrade HUDF capacity and skills in international project management;
(g)    To augment and upgrade HIUDF capacity and skills in the various engineering management fields
required in the implementation of the program. These inclide district heating, environment/water, solid
waste management, municipal building upgrading and renovation, urban infrastructure rehabilitation,
urban transport, and road repairs and number of other minor discipliles;
(h)    To upgrade HUDF skills in environmental assessment;
(i)    By strengthening HUDF and through the project activities, introduce and upgrade the financial and
engineering project management capacity and skills in the municipalities;
(j)    To ensure that the training that will be coordinated by the Association of Local Authorities in Lithuania
as designed under the MDP is consistent and helps to support work for subproject preparation in
practice;
(k)    To augment and support training programs under the MDP with lessons learned from the assistance
provided to fulfill the requirements under the MDP;
(I)    To be able to taper off the expatriate support in about two years and have an experienced, skillful and
capable HUDF to complete the last two and half years of the program with just an occasional home
office based support input;
(m)   To organize support in such a way that HUDF will have an unbiased view of the availability of latest
technologies and services; and
(n)    To expedite the preparation and early implementation of the credit line component of the project.



68
CONCEPT
6.    It is foreseen that the services required to attain the objectives described above, would be best organized
by seconding international consultants from various countries to the HUDF organization for a period of about
two years. The expatriate specialists would be attached to the HUDF organization, where they would work
under the HUDF management and as a part of HUDF team. The role of the seconded specialists would be,
therefore, not advisory only, but much oriented to actually providing professional inputs within the overall
program management carried out by HUDF. The HUDF organization, in which the expatriate specialists will
work, is presented in attachment 3.
SCOPE OF WORK
7.     Four specialists will be assigned to work in HUDF under HUDF management in Lithuania and one will
(Municipal Finance Specialist) will be assigned to work from the WB office." The expatriate specialists and
their approximate duty tours in active manmonths (calendar year corresponds to 10.5 active manmonths) are
expected to be:
Procurement and disbursement specialist   21
Financial analyst                         21
Environment/water engineer                21
District heating expert                   21
Local Government Finance Specialist       21
8.    After their service in Vilnius, the specialists are expected to be available during the next 6 months for
small completing assignments totaling to one manmontlh. The total active manmonth input from this group is
estimated at I 10.
9.     The expatriate specialists should have at least 12 years professional experience in their respective
professional fields, good command of English especially in writing, clear presentation skills and interpersonal
skills as well as attitude suitable for working in a multicultural environment. A prior thorough experience in
World Bank and Nordic financed projects is important. International experience especially in transition
economies and specifically in Lithuania would be helpful.
10.   The specialists do not have any other home office support than HUDF. Therefore, sufficient maturity to
deal with issues beyond the specialist's basic area of expertise and good networking skills to tap into the
resources of the World Bank and NIB are essential.
I.    The expatriate personnel will work under the HUDF management, and in close co-operation with the
Lithuanian co-staff and municipalities, sharing the performance of the following duties, including all their
technical, financial, social, environmental and procurement aspects with the Lithuanian co-staff:
(a)    Introduction of the program to the municipalities and soliciting project initiatives;
(b)    Support to municipalities for the preparation of Strategic Investment Profile (SIP);
(c)    Appraisal of SIP and municipality creditworth,laess;
(d)    Support to municipalities for the social assessment and public consultation in the context of MDP;
(e)    Support to municipalities for the preparation of Subproject Concept Documents (PCD;
"1 In addition to responsibilities under this project, the Municipal Finance Specialist will work on local govermment finance
policy issues to support the World Bank's work in Lithuania and Latvia.



69
(f)    Appraisal of Subproject Concept Documents and conformity to sectoral investment priorities;
(g)    Preparation of Terms of References (TOR) and Requests for Proposals (RFP) for subproject Feasibility
Studies;
(h)    Evaluation of consultants' Proposals for Feasibility Studies;
(i)    Guidance to the consultants performing feasibility studies;
(j)    Evaluation of Feasibility Studies, final subproject appraisal and obtaining financing agency clearance,
where appropriate;
(k)    Preparation of TOR and RFP for subproject engineering, preparation of bidding documents and
construction management (E-BD-CM)'2;
(I)    Evaluation of consultants' Proposals for the E-BD-CM;
(m)   Guidance for the consultants performing E-BD-CM;
(n)    Evaluation of Bidding Documents and obtaining financing agency clearance where appropriate;
(o)    Evaluation of contractors' Bids and obtaining financinig agency clearance where appropriate;
(p)    Follow-up of construction and clearance of disbursement;
(q)    All procurement and disbursement clearance activities connected to activities from (a) to (p).
(r)    Project reporting to stakeholders;
(s)    Support to HUDF in project management;
(t)    Support to HUDF and ALAL in upgrading the project preparation and implementation skills in the
municipalities;
(u)    Liaison with financing agencies and sector institutions;
(v)    Provide inputs into municipal training program coordinated by ALAL under the MDP. These inputs
include provision of teaching from time to time as well as provide continuous feedback and transfer of
best practices and lessons learned to ensure consistency in training curriculum and practical advice
given during subproject preparation;
(w)   On the job training of Lithuanian co-staff; and
(x)    End of Tour Report at the completion of assignment.
12.   It is estimated that there will be about 50 subprojects in about 40 municipalities. The total number of
contracts to be concluded is estimated at over 150. Combining especially consulting contracts to larger packages
may prove helpful for the implementation. The co-operation with the municipalities is especially important, and
requires special attention and effort in order to overcome the language barrier and differences in project
preparation culture.
12 E-BD-CM means Engineering, Bidding Documentation and Contract Management.



70
13.   The subproject pipeline has been under development and currently (Jan. 99) it includes some 15
subproject initiatives in 10 municipalities (WB) plus 20 in environmental sector (NIB). The pipeline has been
prepared using parallel approach, that is, preparing all phases from SIP to feasibility studies simultaneously. The
NIB pipeline has been prepared by a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Environment. This pipeline
will be handed over to HUDF for further implementation.
14.   In addition to the general scope of work above, scope of work for individual assignments are provided
in the following pages.
FACILITIES PROVIDED BY HUDF
15.    HUDF will provide:
(a)  Local knowledge to support accommodation selection;
(b)  Office space and facilities including electricity for computers; and
(c)  Office support staff and services, like copying, printing and fixed tele-communications.
Reasonable translation and interpretation services between Lithuanian and English.
FACILITIES PROVIDED BY THE CONSULTANTS
16.   The consultants are expected to arrange the following facilities for the duration of the tour:
(a)    International travel. Travel to be arranged following the particular financing agency regulations;
(b)    Transportation in Lithuaniia. Due to the need of regular and deep co-operation with the
municipalities, the expatriates will need to be able to travel individually in Lithuania. A car
should be available for each of expatriate specialists, travelliig usually with Lithuanian co-staff,
(c)    Communications. Each expatriate specialist should be equipped with a mobile phone service;
(d)    Computing. Each expatriate specialist should be equipped with a new computer with at least
Word, Excel and Lotus Notes. The computers will be connected to HUDF network; and
(e)    Accommodation.
The costs for the above services arranged by the consultant will be borne by the particular financing agency
assigning the consultant.



71
Annex 13
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST TO THE HUDF
1.   The Procurement and Disbursement Specialist is to work primarily with HUDF's locally recruited
procurement and disbursement officer in providing on-the-job advice and training and to improve the capacity
of HUDF in all procurement and disbursement aspects of the project implementation.
2.   The project will be financed from a number of sources, which include the World Bank, Nordic Investment
Bank, Governments of Lithuania, Denmark, Finland and Sweden as well as the project municipalities and
municipal enterprises. Procurement, disbursement, monitoring and reporting rules of all these financing sources
need to be followed. The consultant needs to be familiar of at least World Bank procurement and disbursement
practices and at least of the methods of one of the donor countries. Refresher training will be organized in the
beginning of the assignment of the latest procedures of the World Bank and NIB. These include in particular
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as well as the new WB Procurement Monitoring Reporting (PMR-based)
disbursement /reporting system. Some of the key documents are Financial Accounting Reporting and
Accounting Handbook (Jan.95), The Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook
(Sep. 98) and the Disbursement Handbook (1992) and the HUDF manuals.
3.   Additionally to the TOR, the Procurement and Disbursement Specialist will:
(a)  participate in providing formal (workshop) and on-the-job training to HUDF co-staff and
municipalities on procurement and disbursement;
(b)  together with llUDF staff procure consulting services for subproject preparation using appropriate
procurement rules (WB, donor);
(c)  together with HUDF staff guide and review the work of consultants producing Bidding Documents;
(d)  together with HUDF staff procure and disburse for goods and works for the implementation of the
subprojects;
(e)  together with HUDF staff analyze institutional development needs revealed by feasibility studies
and plan institutional development action accordingly;
(f)  discuss with the Management of HUDF the format and structure of all procurement and
disbursement aspects of project work and define needs for further development;
(g)  together with HUDF staff improve from the HUDF Operational Manual the standard procedures,
guidelines, formats and outlines for the procurement and disbursement; and
(h)  disseminate these standards to municipalities and municipal enterprises through on-the-job
discussion and inputs to the Municipal Training Program coordinated by the Association of Local
Authorities under the MDP. These inputs include provision of teaching from time to time as well as
provide continuous feedback and transfer of best practices and lessons learned to ensure consistency
in training curriculum and practical advice given during subproject preparation.
4.  In addition to the general requirements in paragraph 9 of the TOR, the Procurement and Disbursement
Specialist should have demonstrated experience and knowledge of the procurement of services, goods and
works for the World Bank and Nordic donor financed preferably infrastructure projects.



72
Annex 14
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
FINANCIAL ANALYST TO THE HUDF
I .    The Financial Analyst is to work primarily with HUDF's locally recruited fiiancial analyst in providing
on-the-job advice and training to improve the capability of HUDF in all financial aspects in subproject screening,
appraisal, selection and implementation at eachi stage of the subproject cycle as outlined in paragraph I 1.
2.     Additionally, the Financial Analyst will:
(a)  together with HUDF staff carry out subproject screening and appraisal to ensure the financial
viability of proposed subprojects, this includes desk work on financial projections, ratios, financial
internal rates of return, and other financial appraisal techniques as the case may require, inputs to
Terms of Reference for Feasibility Studies, and field work discussing the format and structure on
financial aspects of the subproject with applicants and defining needs for strengthening the
subproject proposal;*
(b)  together with HUDF staff carry out subproject screening and appraisal to ensure the economic
viability of proposed subprojects, this includes desk work on economic projections, ratios, economic
internal rates of return, cost-benefit analyses and other economic appraisal techniques as the case
may require, inputs to Terms of Reference for Feasibility Studies, and field work discussing the
format and structure on economic aspects of the subproject with applicants and defining needs for
strengthening the subproject proposal;
(c)  together with HUDF staff guide and review the work of consultants producing Feasibility Studies
and participate in consulting bid evaluation;
(d)  together with HUDF staff analyze institutional development needs revealed by financial and
economic appraisals and plan institutional development action accordingly;
(e)  together with HUDF staff prepare necessary documentation of the appraisal for presentation to the
Loan Committee of the HUDF for approval;
(f)  discuss with the Management of HUDF the format and structure of all financial/economic aspects of
project screening/appraisal work and define needs for additional technical assistance;
(g)  together with HUDF staff improve from the HUDF Operational Manual the standard procedures,
guidelines, formats and outlines for the financial review of subprojects taking into account local
conditions, differences in sectors and in beneficiaries (mainly, municipalities and municipal
enterprises) that will ensure the financial and/or economic viability of each subproject; and
(h)  disseminate these standards to municipalities and municipal enterprises through on-the-job
discussion and inputs to the Municipal Training Program coordinated by the Association of Local
Authorities under the MDP. These inputs include provision of teaching from time to time as well as
provide continuous feedback and transfer of best practices and lessons learned to ensure consistency
in training curriculum and practical advice given during subproject preparation.
As a general guideline, financial viability analysis should be the primary appraisal criteria for revenue generating projects
and economic viability should be the primary appraisal criteria for non-revenue generating projects (i.e. street lighting).



73
3.    In addition to the general requirements in paragraph 9 above, the Financial Analyst should have
demonstrated experience and knowledge of aspects of municipal finance associated with public investment in
infrastructure and capital expenditures in state owned utilities. Experience in these topics in transition economies
is preferred.



74
Annex 15
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
WATER AND ENVIRONMENT ENGINEER TO THE HUDF
1.   The Water and  Environment Engineer is to work primarily with HUDF's locally recruited
engineer/environmentalist in providing on-the-job advice and training to improve the capability of HUDF in all
technical and environmental aspects in subproject screening, appraisal, selection and implementation at each
stage of the subproject cycle as outlined in paragraph I 1.
2.   Additionally, the Water and Environment Engineer will:
(a)  participate in providing formal (workshop) and on-the-job training to HUDF co-staff and
municipalities on environmental assessment;
(b)  together with HUDF staff guide and appraise the work of consultants performing environmental
assessment;
(c)  together with HiUDF staff carry out subproject screening and appraisal to ensure the technical
viability and least cost techinical solution of proposed water, sewerage and solid waste subprojects;
(d)  together with HUDF staff guide and review the work of consultants producing Feasibility Studies
and participate in consulting bid evaluation;
(e)  together with HUDF staff analyze instittitional development needs revealed by feasibility studies
and plan institutional development action accordingly;
(f)  together with HUDF staff prepare necessary documentation of the appraisal for presentation to the
Loan Committee of the HUDF for approval;
(g)  discuss with the Management of HUDF the format and structure of all technical/environmental
aspects of project screening/appraisal work and define needs for additional technical assistance; and
(h)  together with HUDF staff improve from the HUDF Operational Manual the standard procedures,
guidelines, formats and outlines for the technical and environmental review of subprojects taking
into account local conditions, differences in sectors and in beneficiaries ( mainly, municipalities and
municipal enterprises ) that will ensure the technical and environmental viability of each subproject;
(i)  disseminate these standards to municipalities and municipal enterprises through on-the-job
discussion and inputs to the Municipal Training Program coordinated by the Association of Local
Authorities under the MDP. These inputs include provision of teaching from time to time as well as
provide continuous feedback and transfer of best practices and lessons learned to ensure consistency
in training curriculum and practical advice given during subproject preparation.
3.   In addition to the general requirements in paragraph 9 above, the Water and Environment Engineer
should have demonstrated experience and knowledge of the range of consulting services and project
management and their contracting for municipal infrastructure.
As a general guideline, financial viability analysis should be the primary appraisal criteria for revenue generating projects
and economic viability should be the primary appraisal criteria for non-revenue generating projects (i.e. street lighting).



75
Annex 16
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
DISTRICT HEATING EXPERT TO THE HUDF
1.   The District Heating Expert is to work primarily with HUDF's locally recruited engineers in providing on-
the-job advice and training to improve the capability of HUDF in all technical and environmental aspects in
subproject screening, appraisal, selection and implementation at each stage of the subproject cycle as outlined in
paragraph 11.
2.   Additionally, the District Heating Expert will:
(a)  participate in providing formal (workshop) and on-the-job training to HUDF co-staff and
municipalities on issues regarding development of district heating;
(b)  together with HUDF staff guide and appraise the work of consultants performing environmental
assessment on energy projects;
(c)  together with HUDF staff carry out subproject screening and appraisal to ensure the technical
viability and least cost technical solution energy and district heating subprojects;
(d)  together with HUDF staff guide and review the work of consultants producing Feasibility Studies
and participate in consulting bid evaluation;
(e)  together with HUDF staff analyze institutionial development needs revealed by feasibility studies
and plan institutional development action accordingly;
(f)  together withi HUDF staff prepare necessary documentation of the appraisal for presentation to the
Loan Committee of the HUDF for approval;
(g)  discuss with the Management of lIUDE the forimat and structure of all technical/environmental
aspects of project screening/appraisal work and define needs for additional technical assistance;
(h)  together with HUDF staff improve from the HUDF Operational Manual the standard procedures,
guidelines, formats and outlines for the technical, economical and environmental review of
subprojects taking into account local conditions, differences in sectors and in beneficiaries ( mainly,
municipalities and municipal enterprises ) that will ensure the technical and environmental viability
of each subproject; and
(i)  disseminate these standards to municipalities and municipal enterprises through on-the-job
discussion and inputs to the Municipal Training Program coordinated by the Association of Local
Authorities under the MDP. These inputs include provision of teaching from time to time as well as
provide continuous feedback and transfer of best practices and lessons learned to ensure consistency
in training curriculum and practical advice given during subproject preparation.
3.   In addition to the general requirements in paragraph 9 of the TOR, the District Heating Expert should
have demonstrated experience and knowledge of the range of consulting services, project management and
contracting for municipal energy and district heating infrastructure. Prior experience in solving the sector
problems typical in post-Soviet transition economy is essential.
As a general guideline, financial viability analysis should be the primary appraisal criteria for revenue generating projects
and economic viability should be the primary appraisal criteria for non-revenue generating projects (i.e. street lighting).



76
Annex 17
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Terms of Reference
MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FUND AND TRAINING PROGRAM
COORDINATED BY THE ASSOCIATION OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES (ALAL)
BACKGROUND
1.   The Government of Lithuania has requested assistance from the World Bank (IBRD) and the Nordic
Investment Bank (NIB) for the support of the development of municipal financing mechanisms through
financing municipal infrastructure investments in environmental, water, district heating, solid waste
management, transportation and street lighting sectors. This request has resulted to the preparation of Lithuania
Municipal Development Program (MDP). The program seeks to provide training, technical assistance and
investment support to about 40 of the 56 Lithuanian municipalities. The number of subprojects is expected to be
around 50. The total program cost is estimated at 68.1 million US$ equivalent, and the investments at 58.2
million US$ equivalent. Donor support from Denmark, Finland and Sweden is expected for Municipal Training
and Capacity Building coordinated by the Association of Local Authorities (1.33 mUS$), technical consulting
services for project preparation (5.4 mUS$) and in-house technical assistance (1.6 mUS$) to the implementing
agency Housing Credit Foundation (HUDF) as well as investment grant support (5.0 mUS$) for eligible mainly
environmental investments. The program is designed to cover a period of four and half years and to commence
summer, 1999, when the IBRD loan is expected to become effective. The NIB loan of EUR 20 million is already
effective.
2.   More information on the proposed project, like project description, background, objectives, subproject
pipeline etc. can be found on the attached Project Appraisal Document.(Appendix 1).
3.   The Housing and Urban Development Foundation (FlIUDF) will act as a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) for the Program. It will be supported initially with an extensive TA package including advisors for
procurement, municipal financing, financial analysis, water/environment and district heating.  HUDF is
expected to have strong project preparation and implementation capacity especially, as it will be administering
and using the funds for technical consultinig services.
4.   As the Project Implementation Unit of the MDP, the HUDF will be, in the course of subproject
preparation and implementation, disseminating information and providing on-the-job training in municipal
financial planning and project preparation. However, the HUDF lacks a natural constituency that would
underwrite the provision of municipal training and capacity building to all municipalities over the long term.
5.   The Association of Local Authorities in Lithuania (ALAL) was established in 1995 and has all the
Lithuanian municipalities as members. Its mission is to represent municipalities, advance their common interests
and provide support services for the members. The staff strength at the end of 1998 was 15 and budget about
0.25 million US$. The ALAL has the institutional linkages and a natural constituency necessary to provide
services designed to build capacity in municipalities that address the objectives under the MDP. However, the
ALAL has to date focused only on legislative advice and advocacy.  This is an important service to
municipalities, but it is oriented toward policy reform at the central government level. One of the ALAL's
shortcomings is, for example, a lack of adequate language skills, which would help ALAL to effectively support
its membership in IFI financed project preparation and in the requirements and opportunities brought about the
EU accession. The Municipal Institutional Development Fund and Training Program aims to help develop a
capacity in the ALAL to develop services oriented toward helping municipalities access and borrow responsibly
from international financial institutions and other sources of long term financing."3
13 ALAL coordination is subject to the approval of ALAL Board of Directors. The decision of the Board of Directors is
expected at the end of January 1999.



77
OBJECTIVES
6.   The objectives of the assignment are:
(a)  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises to effectively and efficiently carry out their roles
and responsibilities outlined under subproject preparation and implementation requirements under
the MDP;
(b)  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises in mobilizing resources to finance municipal
services and infrastructure improvements through their own resources, through borrowing and
ultimately by tapping private sector financing;
(c )  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises in ensuring that their capital improvement plans
conform to national sector strategies and master plans for concerned sectors;
(d)  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises in conducting public bidding in accordance with
provisions of Lithuanian law, IBRD Loan Agreement and agreements with other IFIs and donor
governments;
(e)  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises in adopting commercial and regulatory principles
in operation and management of public utilities in order to provide cost-effective and reliable
services to consumers;
(f )  To assist municipalities and municipal enterprises in meeting requirements that shall be imposed
under preparations for Accession to the European Union; and
(g)  To assist the ALAL  in developing skills and capacity to provide sustainable support to
municipalities and municipal enterprises in achieving objectives (a) through (f).



78
Annex 18
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.     "Project Implementation Plan and Procedures," document prepared by HUDF and the World
Bank, February 1999.
B.    Bank Staff Assessments.
Project Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO Report of May 15, 1988.
Project Appraisal Mission, Report of July 25, 1998.
C.    Minutes of Helsinki Meeting, September 18, 1998 and Stockholm Meeting, January 18, 1999 re
Donors' Cofinancing
D.    I.  BoozeAllen & Hamilton: Municipal Credit Facility-Manual of Operating Procedures.
2.  BoozeAllen &  Hamilton: Institutional Assessment of Municipalities and Municipal
Enterprises in Lithuania (Panevezys, Telsiai, Birzai and Akmene Municipalities).
3.  "Building a Hard Credit Culture With Lithuanian Local Authorities and Municipal
Enterprises: Infrastructure Capital Market Access Strategies and Transitional Municipal
Credit Facility Options." Thomas Cochrane, International Public Finance Program, The
Institute of Public Administration, NYC, NY.
E.    Assorted hard copies of key electronic communications.
F.    By-Laws and Charter of the Housing Credit Foundation.
G.    Procurement Assessment of C.P. Ranganathan, March 1999.
H.    Collaboration Piocedures among the IFIs.
*Including electronic files.



Annex 19
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Lithuania
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual                   Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/         Supervision Rating bI
Project ID    Year               Borrower                        Purpose
MIHD       IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.         Orig     Frm Rev'd    Dev Obt       Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
LT-PE-8537      1994   GOVERNMENT OF LITHUANIA          POWER REHABILITATION                26.40         0.00         0.00        22.93        22.00         12.37       S            S
LT-PE-8553      1995   GOVT OF LITHUANIA                KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT                  /.00        0.00         0.00         4.89          4.70         0.00       S             S
LT-PE-8536      1995   GOVT. OF LITHUANIA               ENTERP & FIN. SECT.                  25.00        0.00         0.00         4.31        -1.38          0.00       S            HS
LT-PE-36011    1996   REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA            KLAIPEDA GEOTHERMAL                   5.90        0.00         0.00         5.87          5.86         0.00       S            S
LT-PE-8538      1996   GOVT OF LITHUANIA                PRIVATE AGRIC. DEVT.                 30.00        0.00         0.00        28.61         16.78           .25      S             S
LT-PE-35783    1996   REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA             SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT                  6.20        0.00         0.00         4.88          3.64         0.00       S            S
LT-PE-35163    1997   REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA             ENERGY EFFIC/HOUSING                 10.00        0.00         0.00         8.27          3.93         0.00       NA            S
LT-PE-8551      1997   REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA            HIGHWAY                              19.00        0.00         0.00         4.48        -3.03          0.00       S             s
LT-PE-8539      1997   REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA            SOC. POL. COMM SERV                   3.70        0.10         0.00         2.12          1.18         0.00       IIS          HS
Total                                                                                      133.20         0.00         0.00        86.36        53.68         12.62
Active Projects    Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    46.60           138.78               185.38
of which has been repaid:                     .58             5.77                 6.35
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   132.62           133.01              265.63
Amount sold                                         0.00             0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00              0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               86.36              0.00                86.36
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected dL appraisal
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performdnce (ARPP), a letter bh,sed systehu  was intrLoduced (HIS - htghly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Perforrnance Ratinq Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the ernd of the first week of the moroLlt.



80
Annex 20
Lithuania Municipal Development Project
Lithuania At A Glance
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central   middle-         -       -
Lithuania      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                          3.7       476      2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     2,230     2,320      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         8.3      1,106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (I)                                          -0.2        0.2       1.2     G                                 G
Labor force (%)                                         -0.2        0.5       1.3     GNP                                Gross
per                         -   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                 capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   73         67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         71         69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live binths)                 10         25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                      .               ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                                .        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                           19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    96         92        111            Lithuania
Male                                                   97                  116          - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 95                  113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                                        ..        7.9       9.6
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                                      24.5      26.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                  53 4      54.5                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                 ..      14.7      16.3
Gross national savings/GDP                                 ..      16.0      16.7
Current account balance/GDP                                        -9.2     -10.2                      /  \
Interest payments/GDP                                               0.8       1.5     s                             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   .         .       18.3      27.9      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                                          5.9       9.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                          14.8      19.1
Present value of debt/exports                     .        .      27.3       34.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            -49       47         6.1       4.9               Lithuania
GNP per capita                                  -4.2     2.7        2.9       4.9            - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                            3.6        6.5       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth ratesofoutputandinvestment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            60
Agriculture                                                .       11.2      11.2
Industry                                                           30.2      27.9     20
Manufacturing                                                    20.0      18.0      20
Services                                                          49.0       48.6      
-20   -                  95   96   97
Private consumption                                                66.4      64.7    .40
General government consumption                                     189       19 0
Imports of goods and services                                     63.2       651                    GDI          -GDP
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997
Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual grov'th)
Agriculture                                             -2.8       12.1       5.9    15
Industry                                               -12.6        3.7       4.7    10
Manufacturing                                        -15.4        2.8       6.1
Services                                         .      -0.7        2.3       5.8
Private consumption                              .                  8.5      -4.9      5      92   93          9s   96   97
General government consumption                   .                 -3.7      -0.6
Gross domestic investment                        .         .       -3.7       7.3    -'
Imports of goods and services                    .                  3.6       4.2               -Exports    -        Imports
Gross national product                           .      -4.0        2.6       2.7
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, trie diamond will
be incomplete.



81
Lithuania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Intlatton (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        1,0on
(% change)                                                                             800i
Consumer prices                                                     24.6       8.4      800..
Implicit GDP deflator                                               25.0      14.9      600
Government finance                                                                      200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       0
Current revenue                                                     28.0      31.2     -200     92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                               0.2       1.9                    GDP deflator    0   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                             -4.4      -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..        .      3,356     3,863     6,000
Commodity 1                                                        521       566     9ool
Commodity 2                                                        499       666
Manufactures                                                       482       565          rs. 
Total imports (cif)                                                4,559     5,644     3,000
Food                                                               474       464     2,000
Fuel and energy                                                    821       958     1t.Il
Capital goods                                                      617       876        O
91   92   93   94   95   96 97
Export price index (1995=100)                                        127       148
Import price index (1995=100)                                        123       148                e Exports     r Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                            103       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997         rrent account       to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                      4,211     5,224      2 -
Imports of goods and services                                      4,986     6,237      0        *    _
Resource balance                                                    -775    -1,013          91   92
Net income                                                           -91      -198      4
Net current transfers                                               144       231                                      |
Current account balance                                            -723      -981      -8                       I    I    I
Financing items (net)                                               738      1,219     -10
Changes in net reserves                                              -15     -238    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                              834      1,063
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                                     4.0       4.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0         0      1447      2671
IBRD                                            0        0        101       114                         A 114
IDA                                             0        0          0         0                                C 271
Total debt service                                0         0       253       489                                       - A 114
IBRD                                            0        0          4        10                                    D
IDA                                             0        0          0         0       G 1,025                          c271
Compositior of net resource flows                                                                             E_34 81
Officiae grants                                 0        0         42        23                                      ME 346
Official creditors                              0        0        111        66
F8534
Private creditors                               0        0        251       283
Foreign direct investment                      ..                 152       328                     .G -            -     1,025
Portfolio equity                                0        0        188       173                             F 834
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0        151         4      A-IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        0         44        21         - IDA  D - Other multilatera    F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         3      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                       0        0         44        18
interest payments                               0        0          4
Net transfers                                   0        0         40        11
Drevelopment Economics                                                                                                    3/24/99



N.  ToSo)doo4                              70)KE?~O Rg  L A  T V  I A267
I'~~~ica  ~ ~ ~     ~           ~~ - $ \.. L                                  To~~~~ Riga                                                              I  KILOMETERS
20   20  40 5
To Ko/liningr6                                                                                                                                                                      2       3
R UKurBeI A 
FEDERTION                                                                                                                                                         I TH U TN  I 
'h. 6-d-                               T.,                                                                                                                          ThDaKap
RUSSIAN                                                                                              RIVERS                           300~~~~~~~~BELA U 
nas         T.... oour                                                                                                                                            AI RAD                         5
To L;do ~ ~    T Vrnan
m   P 0   L A  ND                                                    n                                     INTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL   BOIJNARIE
POLAND  BELARUS                                                                         BELARUS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URANALA                              LVTIN
N GUET1RS:



