                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34611

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-44810 TF-29137 TF-25544)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.1 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                                                 FOR A

                               MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           December 12, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective 09/09/2005)

                            Currency Unit = Lithuanian Litas (LTL)
                                       LTL 1 = US$ 0.36
                                       US$ 1 = LTL 2.77

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1        December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALAL      Association of Local Authorities of Lithuania
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFCU      Central Financing and Contracting Unit
CPMA      Central Project Management Agency
DEA       Danish Energy Authority
DEPA      Danish Environment Protection Agency
EIB       European Investment Bank
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
ESW       Economic Sector Work
EU        European Union
FMOE      Finnish Ministry of Environment
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
HUDF      Housing and Urban Development Foundation
IFI       International Financial Institution
ISPA      Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession
MDL       Municipal Development Project
MDP       Lithuania Government Municipal Development Program
MIG       Municipal Infrastructure Grant
MOEC      Ministry of Economy
MOEN      Ministry of Environment
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MPARLA    Ministry of Public Administration Reform and Local Administration
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NIB       Nordic Investment Bank
OM        Operations Manual
PIP       Public Investment Program
PMU       Project Management Unit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



                           Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director:           Daniela Gressani
                         Sector Manager:            S. Lee Travers
                     Task Team Leader:              W. Jan Brzeski

                                         LITHUANIA
                         MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P035802                                                  Project Name: Municipal Development Project
Team Leader: Jan Brzeski                                             TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 13, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Municipal Development Project                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-44810; TF-29137;
                                                                                                     TF-25544
   Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                                          Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (25%); Power
                            (25%); District heating and energy efficiency services (25%);
                            General transportation sector (25%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Other urban development (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/29/1996                                     Effective: 09/30/1999                10/30/2000
     Appraisal: 06/29/1998                                         MTR: 11/15/2001                  12/18/2001
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; HOUSING & URBAN
                                           DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
                      Other Partners:      Denmark: Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA), Danish Energy
                                           Authority (DEA); Finland: Finnish Ministry of Environment (FMOE); Sweden:
                                           Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Margret C. Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:             Jan Brzeski                                    Jeffrey Balkind
ICR Primary Author:             Felix A. Jakob; Jan Brzeski


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Indroduction. In 1994, three years after independence, Lithuania undertook to reform its local government
system consolidating its 480-odd small local administration units inherited from Soviet Union times into 60
municipalities. Among many other mandates these new municipalities were given exclusive responsibility
for all basic infrastructure services such as water supply, sewerage, heating, solid waste collection and
disposal, streets, public transport and participated with the central government in the delivery of education,
health and other social services.

Of the many problems the new municipalities were confronted with in discharging their responsibilities the
most critical were a patrimony of deteriorated infrastructure and inefficiently operating utility services, a
severe shortage of management skills, and lack of financial resources. At that time, most municipal
revenue was derived from inter-governmental transfers, which were subject to unpredictable fluctuations
from one year to another. An only incipient reform of the banking system prevented municipalities from
getting access to long-term credit. As a result, maintenance of municipal infrastructure and service
equipment was severely disrupted and capital repair virtually ceased.

Developing the municipal sector and improving the delivery of basic services was therefore a high priority
for both the Government and the donor community. In addition to the World Bank with its Loan 4481-LT
(EUR 18.89 million/USD 20.1 million), other International Financial Institutions (IFIs) such as the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) opened credit lines for municipal
investments at about the same time (EIB: Loan FI-20.245, EUR 15.0 million in 1999 and NIB: Loan
MIL-97/2, EUR 20.0 million in 1998). With the opening of official discussions on its accession to the
European Union (EU), Lithuania also became eligible, as of 2000, for EU pre-accession funds from the
ISPA program for environment and transport related investments (about EUR 50.0 million annually for the
period 2000­2003), a funding source which was replaced by the (even larger) EU Cohesion Funds in 2004
when Lithuania became a full member of the EU.

Original Objectives. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) dated April 16, 1999 stated that the four
general goals of the Municipal Development Project (MDL) were to:

`support Government of Lithuania's reforms of local government administration and finance through
institutional capacity building at the municipal level and development of a viable system for financing
local government investments. As part of the Government's program to redress regional inequalities,
emphasis will be on the smaller municipalities outside of the capital (Vilnius), which are too small to
deal directly with international financial institutions;

support a number of well-prepared investment projects that will improve the quality and cost
effectiveness of municipal services by compensating for the legacy of poor planning, lack of maintenance
and underinvestment in infrastructure and environmental investments ­ based on demand (sub-projects
from Vilnius and Kaunas, the two largest cities will be eligible);

strengthen the municipalities' capacity for investment planning, capital budgeting, financial
management, and ability to deliver improvements in basic urban services; and

work with the other international finance institutions and the key partner bilateral countries in
supporting a more effective system of local government administration and finance, topics that are
important to the country's EU-accession goals.'

(Note: The ICR refers to the Municipal Development Project under the acronym MDL to avoid any


                                                      - 2 -

possible confusion with the term MDP (Municipal Development Program) which is used by the Lithuanian
authorities to designate collectively the three IFI supported credit lines and other external assistance
programs for the municipal sector which allowed to implement close to EUR 80.0 million of investments
over the 2000-04 period).

Assessment of Project Objectives. The overall objectives of MDL as stated above were highly relevant for
Lithuania at the time of project preparation (and continue to be to date). They were in line with
Lithuania's goal to join the European Union. They largely coincided with Government's agenda for the
local government sector defined in the Government Decree Nr. 734 of June 2000 which established a
comprehensive Municipal Development Program (MDP) and entrusted the management of the three IFI
supported credit lines for municipal investments and some other external assistance programs for the
municipal sector to a single administrating entity. The objectives of MDL were also consistent with the
recommendations of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1999, which made `support for the
reforms and investments needed for accession to the European Union' one of its three pillars. Finally, the
project objectives were fully in tune with the Bank's general approaches to, and recommendations for, local
government reform and municipal investment financing arrangements in transition economies at that time.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

MDL, whose total cost was estimated at USD 35.7 million (of which USD 20.1 million/EUR 18.89 million
or 57% financed by Loan 4481-LT) included three components:

         (a)      Technical assistance for institutional capacity building, training and project preparation -
         USD 9.7 million/EUR 9.1 million, of which no Bank loan funding;

         (b)      Municipal investments projects - USD 24.8 million/EUR 23.3 million, of which Bank loan
         funding USD 20.1 million/EUR 18.89 million - including a front-end fee of USD 0.2 million / EUR
         0.2 million; and

          (c)     Institutional Development for the Housing and Urban Development Foundation
         (HUDF/CPMA), the project management unit - USD 1.0 million/EUR 0.9 million, of which no
         Bank loan funding. (HUDF, upon a its merger in late 2002 with another agency, became CPMA
         (Central Project Management Agency). To reflect the mid-course transformation and avoid
         possible confusion, the implementing agency is therefore referred to in the ICR as HUDF/CPMA.)

(Note: Loan 4481-LT was converted in September 1999, prior to loan effectiveness, into a single currency
Euro denominated loan at the exchange rate of EUR 1.00 = USD 1.064; consequently, throughout the ICR
all costs are referred to in EUR terms and when conversion into USD is required, the initial conversion rate
is used to avoid the distorting effects of the widely fluctuating exchange rates between the two currencies in
the subsequent years).

As shown above, of the three MDL components only the second component `Municipal Investment
Projects' was to be financed by the Bank loan, whereas the other two were to be funded from other
bilateral, multilateral, or domestic sources.

Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building: The purpose of the component was - through the provision



                                                      - 3 -

of external technical assistance (MDL did not involve any formal co-financing agreements; however, the
governments of Denmark, Finland and Sweden exchanged with the Bank prior to Board presentation
`Letters of Intent' in which they committed themselves to provide technical assistance to HUDF/CPMA and
investment support within the framework of the MDP) - to (a) strengthen project preparation and screening
capacity of HUDF/CPMA, and provide financing for the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed
design and procurement documents for municipal investments financed under component 2; (b) support a
Municipal Training and Capacity Building Program coordinated by the Association of Lithuanian Local
Authorities (ALAL) providing training in financial management and economic evaluation (in partnership
with local academic institutions and sister municipal associations in other countries); and (c) support the
creation of a Municipal Institutional Development Fund to provide management consulting support to
municipalities.

The total cost of the component was estimated at EUR 9.1 million of which EUR 7.8 million was to be
funded by bilateral donors (Denmark, Finland, and Sweden) and EUR 1.3 million from Lithuanian
municipal own-source contributions.

Component 2: Municipal Investments: The component was to finance infrastructure investment projects
with cost-recovery potential in small- and medium-size municipalities (even though Vilnius and Kaunas, the
country's largest two cities and municipalities, were also eligible albeit with a limit of USD 5.0 million /
EUR 4.7 million per city). Subprojects were to be selected in accordance with specific criteria specified in
an Operations Manual (OM). Costs of projects with broader economic, social and environmental benefits
were expected to be reduced through Municipal Infrastructure Grants (MIGs) obtained from bilateral
donors. According to the PAD, at the time of appraisal about 15 projects estimated to cost about EUR 15.0
million (or about 80% of the loan amount) from more than twelve municipalities had been identified in the
areas of water supply, solid waste management, district heating, and street lighting and were at various
stages of preparation. It was anticipated that the pipeline would grow to about 30 projects from about
twenty municipalities during the first year of implementation and use up the totality of funds available.
Finally it was expected that the component would open substantial opportunities for coordinated financing
with NIB and EIB.

All projects were to be financed through sub-loans from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the eligible
municipalities at IBRD terms plus a 1% markup to cover administrative costs of HUDF/CPMA. Foreign
exchange risk was to be borne by the recipient.

The total cost of the component was estimated at EUR 23.3 million of which EUR 18.89 million was to be
funded by the Bank loan, EUR 2.3 million through MIGs from bilateral donors, and EUR 2.4 million from
municipal own-source contributions.

Component 3: HUDF/CPMA Support: The component was to finance staffing, office equipment and
vehicles for the Project Management Unit (PMU) during a period of four years to provide assistance to
municipalities, manage the MIG program, and appraise projects funded by the Bank and NIB. (However,
the NIB credit line was originally located in the Ministry of Environment (MOEN) and came only in 2001
under the direct management responsibility of HUDF/CPMA).

The total cost of the component was estimated at EUR 0.9 million and was to be funded exclusively from
Government resources.

The PMU was originally created under the name of Housing Credit Foundation (HCF) as the PMU for the
Bank's Energy Efficiency/Housing Project (Loan 4064-LT, FY 97, USD 10.0 million). Based on its
satisfactory performance under that project (see ICR # 22868 of March 2002) it was selected by the
Government to assume the responsibility for managing the implementation of MDL as well as that of the
other programs included in the MDP. Concurrently, to reflect the change in scope of its activities, its name



                                                     - 4 -

was changed to Housing and Urban Development Foundation (HUDF).

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no major changes in the design of the original project during implementation. Some
adjustments were made in the course of the five years of implementation, but none of these required Board
approval. The most important changes consisted in the following:

In January 2001, the Government requested the Bank to help finance, on an emergency basis, an extension
of the energy efficiency program for schools that had been initiated under the Energy Efficiency / Housing
Pilot Project (Loan 4064-LT). The Bank agreed to the allocation of about EUR 10.0 million or 54% of the
loan) to support, together with NIB, a EUR 30.0 million program of rehabilitation of about 120 secondary
schools countrywide.

In November 2002, the Government decided, and the Bank agreed, to merge HUDF with the Central
Financing and Contracting Unit (CFCU), and operate it, under the oversight of MOF, as Central Project
Management Agency (CPMA).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no Quality at Entry assessment review conducted for the project.

The ICR rates the Quality at Entry as unsatisfactory on the ground of the following considerations:

Consistency with Bank Strategy: MDL fulfilled this factor to a substantial degree. Rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure and support to decentralization and local government development were seen as
strategic priorities in the Bank assistance to transition economy countries.

Government Ownership and Stakeholder Involvement: MDL fulfilled this factor to a moderate degree.
The Bank team made a commendable effort throughout project preparation to muster support for the
project at the level of municipalities, identify suitable investments, and set up an efficient implementing
agency. It was less successful, however, in building up genuine ownership at the level of the Government
itself and finding a champion that would consistently support the project and its objectives. The Ministry
of Public Administration Reform and Local Authorities (MPARLA) which was created in 1995 and
initially in charge of overseeing MDL preparation was restructured in 1998, after project appraisal, and the
responsibility for MDL oversight was transferred to MOF, which, given its traditional role and functions,
was probably not the most suitable institution for dealing with local government development issues.

Adequacy of Project Design: MDL fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree. The objectives of MDL, as
stated in the SAR, were over-ambitious especially in terms of institutional development. They were only
weakly supported by project activities addressing issues of policy reforms and did not rely on prior
analytical work. MDL itself included only insignificant resources for institutional development support
and training and relied to that effect exclusively on financing from bilateral donors and local counterpart
contributions. A key role in institutional development was assigned to ALAL, an agency which, aside from
occasional and tenuous donor support, received no other regular funding from MDL that would have
allowed it to satisfactorily develop its activities in line with the project objectives it was supposed to
pursue.

Project Administrative Structure: MDL fulfilled this factor to a reasonable degree. The decision to rely
on, and expand the role of, an existing implementing agency that already successfully managed another
Bank project rather than to create ex-nihilo a new implementing entity was reasonable. Entrusting the
responsibility for project implementation to HUDF/CPMA, a self-standing agency outside the government
apparatus, was expected to protect MDL from undue political interference and ensure a fully rational


                                                         - 5 -

decision-making process for investment projects.

Institutional Analysis: MDL fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree:

Even though the critical importance of this issue had already been identified at pre-appraisal and raised
again at appraisal and negotiations, the incompatibility of the proposed implementation arrangements with
the management procedures for Lithuania's Public Investment Program (PIP) was left unresolved (and did
not get resolved before Summer 2002). The lack of a prior agreement on MDL project approval
procedures with the Ministry of Economy (MOEC) and other Government entities involved in State budget
management was a first major factor in blocking the implementation of most projects included in the initial
pipeline.

Assessment of Risks: MDL fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree. The project team underrated the risk
of competition from the credit lines of EIB and NIB, both of which provided loans under slightly more
advantageous terms than the Bank loan. Even though Lithuania's accession to the EU may have been seen
at that time as a still somewhat distant possibility, the project team underestimated the risks of both the
changes in policies and conditions of access to grant resources the EU accession would entail. Last, the
project team seems to have misjudged the political risks of concentrating the responsibility for virtually all
external financial assistance in HUDF/CPMA under the umbrella of MOF and sidelining other entities such
as MOEN and MOEC traditionally in charge of municipal infrastructure. As it turned out later during
MDL implementation, MOEN was successful in retaining control over the bulk of EU pre-accession
resources from the ISPA program and becoming solely responsible for the implementation of investments
financed from the EU Cohesion Funds.

Readiness for Implementation: MDL fulfilled this factor to a negligible degree. The PAD stated that a
large portfolio of investment projects existed for which the design studies were under preparation and
would be completed by the end of 1999 and that the state of readiness for prompt execution of subprojects
equaled or exceeded current practices of Bank lines of municipal credit. In reality, after loan signing, it still
took ten month to finalize the first sub-loan agreement and only one of the 15 projects included in the
original first year portfolio was ever implemented.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


The ICR assesses the overall outcome and achievements of MDL as satisfactory from the point of view of
output, but unsatisfactory from the point of view of outcome.

In terms of physical output, MDL contributed modestly to improving the conditions of municipal service
infrastructure conditions in small towns of Lithuania. MDL had, however, a significant impact on the
countrywide improvement of educational infrastructure even though this effort was only loosely connected
to the MDL's development objectives. MDL failed to contribute to a reform of the municipal finance
system and its efforts to strengthen municipal management capacity were hampered by the lack of support
it provided to ALAL and/or the limited external expertise it was able to muster from external sources. On
the other hand, through supporting the operation of HUDF/CPMA, MDL played an essential role in
supporting the successful implementation of the other components of the MDP. ( The NIB credit line
closed in 2004 and was fully disbursed. The EIB credit line is fully committed and expected to close, after
extension, in 2007.)




                                                       - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Institutional Capacity Building (not Bank financed, original estimated amount EUR 9.1
million, actually disbursed amount EUR 2.5 million; the amount refers to the bilateral support provided by
Denmark, Finland and Sweden directly related to MDL activities excluding therefore about EUR 0.4
million that were provided for other MDP projects.)

Achievements in the area of institutional capacity building are assessed as modest, but satisfactory in terms
of both output and outcome in its three target areas: (a) supporting project implementation by
HUDF/CPMA, (b) preparing suitable investment projects, and (c) developing the management capacity of
local governments.

Support to HUDF/CPMA relied exclusively on the joint effort of the three Scandinavian countries:
Denmark, Finland and Sweden. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA) financed the
assistance of a water/ environment expert as well as that of a municipal finance specialist for a period of
two years from 1999. The assistance of a procurement expert was funded by the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) for a period of three years from February 2000 to May 2003.
The Finland Ministry of Environment provided the assistance of a district heating expert starting
September 2000 for a period of initially two years and later extending his contract until December 2004.
The performance of these experts was highly satisfactory, especially in the areas of water supply,
procurement, and district heating, as illustrated by the fact that in most cases the Government requested an
extension of their original two-year contracts. Their support allowed HUDF/CPMA to prepare and
implement not only the projects financed by the Bank, but also those funded by EIB and NIB.

The three countries also provided support for the preparation for a number of the municipal investment
operations financed by EIB, NIB and the Bank. Specific donor support for MDL comprised the
preparation of feasibility studies for the Kalvarija and Mazeikiai district heating projects (and in the case of
the latter, the implementation of small demonstrations projects) which were financed by the Finnish
Ministry of Environment (FMOE) and SIDA, respectively.

Development of management capacity in municipalities had been entrusted to the Association of Lithuanian
Local Authorities (ALAL). In 2000, ALAL obtained the assistance of SIDA for the training of six master
trainers in Sweden. Subsequently, in 2001, ALAL organized, together with the Municipal Training Center
of Kaunas Technological University and with partial financial support from UNDP, several training
workshops. In the following years it obtained some assistance from the UK Know-How Fund and the
Dutch Association of Local Authorities for further extension of its training program, though these activities
took place outside MDL. Lack of resources prevented ALAL to pursue other originally contemplated
objectives and develop, in particular, a Municipal Institutional Development Fund to increase its advisory
capacity and provide management consulting support to municipalities.

Component 2. Municipal Investments (original amount EUR 23.5 million, actually disbursed amount EUR
18.5 million or 79% - of which Bank financing EUR 14.3 million.)

Achievements in the area of municipal investments are assessed as satisfactory in terms of output and
unsatisfactory in terms of outcome.

According to the PAD, a pipeline of fifteen projects from more than twelve municipalities and estimated to
cost about EUR 15.0 million (and commit up to 80% of the loan amount) had been identified prior to Bank
Board approval in the areas of water supply, solid waste management, district heating, and street lighting
and was likely to grow to about thirty operations at the end of the first year of implementation In reality,
however, only one of these projects arrived at the stage of implementation (and only a few were picked up
by other donors). The original project pipeline included three solid waste projects, five water supply and
waste water projects, six district heating projects and one street lighting project. Two solid waste and one



                                                      - 7 -

water supply/wastewater project were subsequently financed by ISPA. In the end, MDL only financed a
total of four municipal projects (or 23% of the component amount) that were in line with the original
selection criteria:

   l Kaunas Street Lighting: (Actual cost EUR 2.9 million): The project which was included in the
         original pipeline of projects financed the replacement of the existing mercury street lamps in
         Lithuania's second largest town by about 19,500 new high energy efficiency sodium based lamps.

         Upon completion of procurement the actual cost of the project turned out to be about 20% lower
         than originally estimated. In 2004, the Bank authorized the Kaunas municipality to use the savings
         for a complementary project of a total cost of EUR 460,000 to finance the purchase and
         installation of additional lamps.

         The project allowed the city of Kaunas to reduce energy consumption for street lighting by 40%
         and decrease its annual expenditure for public lighting from EUR 1.7 million to EUR 1.0 million
         and concurrently extend the operating hours of public lighting. While difficult to quantify, the
         improvement of street lighting conditions had reportedly a noticeable impact on traffic safety and
         public security.

   l District Heating Projects: (Actual cost EUR 3.4 million): MDL financed a total of three relatively
         small-scale district heating projects:

        o    In Kalvarija, a small town of 5,000, an existing inefficient coal-burning boiler was replaced by
             a new 4 MW boiler using bio-fuel (wood chips from local industry). Total cost of the project
             was EUR 0.89 million.

        o    In Mazeikiai, a town of about 50,000, about 1.5 km of transmission pipelines were replaced
             contributing to a more efficient operation of the district heating system and complementing
             earlier investments made by the utility itself (installation of bio-fuel boilers) or other donors
             (SIDA). Total cost of the project was EUR 0.69 million.

        o    In Zarasai, a town of 9,000, the rehabilitation/replacement of transmission pipelines helped,
             like in the preceding case, improve the operating efficiency of the district heating system, the
             rehabilitation of which had been initiated earlier by the utility itself from its own resources.
             The total cost of the project was EUR 1,46 million. The project was co-financed by a EUR
             200,000 (DKK 1.5 million) investment grant from the Danish Energy Authority (DEA).

             Preparation of all three of these district heating projects was lengthy. Projects were identified
             in 2001, but actual implementation did not start until late 2004 or early 2005 because of delays
             stemming from disagreements over technical design and procurement arrangements. However,
             all works were satisfactorily completed by at the time of the closing of the loan in June 2005.

   l School Rehabilitation: In addition to the above four projects that were fully in line with the original
         objectives and arrangements of MDL, the Bank acceded in early 2002 to a Government request to
         allocate about EUR 10.0 million (or about 54% of the loan ) to a Government emergency program
         of rehabilitation of about 120 secondary schools countrywide that was co-funded by NIB (EUR
         13.0 million). The project was successfully completed within the one-year time-frame set by the
         Government. Financing the rehabilitation of about 60 schools from MDL allowed to boost
         otherwise stagnating disbursements, (about 80% of total loan disbursements were made in FY02).
         However, the project which obeyed primarily political/electoral imperatives, had only a relatively



                                                       - 8 -

         loose relationship with the original MDL objectives, since the bulk of expenditure was to be paid
         from the State budget. The program essentially expanded on the rehabilitation efforts that were
         initiated under the Bank Energy Efficiency/Housing Project (Ln. 4064-LI, FY97, USD 10.0
         million) and are currently being continued under the Education Improvement Project (Ln. 7128-LI,
         FY 02, EUR 29.0 million).

Since MDL had seen no financial activity for two consecutive years (FY03-04), the Government and the
Bank agreed in December 2004 not to pursue further attempts to develop a project pipeline and cancel the
remaining uncommitted part of the loan (EUR 4.6 million or 24% of the original Loan amount).

The reasons for the only partially satisfactory performance of the component are multiple and not easy to
disentangle:

A first factor was the conflict with PIP procedures. The Government insisted that all MDL projects had to
comply individually with the rules and procedures of the PIP process managed by MOEC whereas the
MDL implementation arrangements were based on the assumption that the MDL portfolio would be
approved and incorporated into the PIP en bloc. As a result, the implementation of many of the projects,
especially district heating projects, included in the original pipeline could not be pursued because they were
not considered a priority by the Government at the time of implementation start up. As mentioned earlier,
the issue of conflicting procedures had been identified already at pre-appraisal as a major potential
problem for the project. The issue was raised at appraisal and negotiations, but could not be resolved until
2002. However, at that time, the solution to the PIP issue came too late to have an effect on the
performance of MDL in the remaining years because of the intervention, in the meantime of the factors
described below.

A second factor were changing Government priorities. As a result of the opening of official discussions on
accession to the European Union (EU), the investment policies and priorities of the Government were
evolving. Over the 2000-2004 period, a number of priority shifts resulted from the need to comply with
the acquis communautaire conditions which extensively affected investments in solid waste management,
water supply and waste water treatment. Changes also occurred in the Government's attitude toward
investment in district heating and position on policies and regulations for municipal borrowing.

A third factor was the financial market context. MDL was facing, from the outset, strong competition from
NIB and EIB both of which offered financing for the same kind of projects under slightly more
advantageous terms. Moreover, with the opening of EU accession discussions, Lithuania became eligible,
as of 2000, for ISPA and other EU pre-accession funds. These funds were provided on a grant basis.
Contrary to EIB and NIB, the incompatibility of EU and Bank procurement procedures did not allow MDL
to engage in co-financing investments with ISPA (or, subsequently, the EU Cohesion Funds). Last, in
recent years the commercial banking sector in Lithuania has seen a rapid development and it has now the
capacity to provide loans to municipalities under financial terms similar to those of MDL though with
fewer conditions.

Component 3: HUDF/CPMA Support (not Bank financed; originally estimated amount EUR 0.9 million,
actually disbursed amount EUR 1.2 million).

Achievements in this area are assessed as satisfactory in terms of both output and outcome.
HUDF/CPMA's performance was essential for the successful implementation of the Government's MDP
program as a whole.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated at appraisal due to the heterogeneous nature of



                                                       - 9 -

the proposed sub-project portfolio. All sub-projects were to have an ERR of at least 12 % to be eligible for
financing.

All projects were approved on the basis of economic criteria. The Kaunas Street Lighting Project has a
payback period of only four years which is satisfactory for this kind of investment. The three district
heating projects were selected on the basis of least-cost analysis of various alternatives. No economic
analysis was carried out for the school program. However, analyses made for similar works included in the
Education Improvement Project (Ln. 7128-LI) indicate that an ERR of 14.5% can be expected for school
building improvement programs similar to the ones financed under MDL.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

For the same reasons as above, no overall Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal. All
sub-projects were to have an FRR of at least 12 % to be eligible for financing.

Currently available data do not allow calculating a meaningful actual FRR for any of the projects,
however.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall institutional development impact of MDL is assessed as modest.

MDL had only a limited identifiable impact on `institutional capacity building at the municipal level and
development of a viable system for financing local government investments'. Municipalities received
some `on the job' training in project preparation and procurement under the school rehabilitation program.
Training provided by ALAL to municipalities was a relatively short-lived effort and whether it had the
anticipated effects on municipal management improvement cannot be ascertained at this point. MDL made
no contribution to the development of a financing system for municipal investments.

On one hand, MDL allowed HUDF/CPMA to build up a solid management capacity which allowed it to
take on, inter alia, the role of implementing agency for part of the Bank's ongoing Education Improvement
Project and various other donor financed programs in the social area. On the other hand, HUDF/CPMA
was never able to assume the role of a primary coordination and management agency for all externally
funded municipal investments since MOEN maintained control over ISPA financed operations and, upon
Lithuania's accession to the EU in 2004, became solely responsible for all investments in the municipal
sector financed from the EU Cohesion Funds.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no factors outside the control of the Government

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The time of MDL preparation and the first years of project implementation coincided with a period of
frequent Government and ministerial changes. In the context of EU accession discussions, MOF's
preference was, reportedly, to make use of funds available from EU sources and EU related financial
institutions. Control over the actual management of municipal investments funded from EU pre-accession
funds, and subsequently the Cohesion Funds, was the subject of protracted discussions between MOF and
MOEN with the latter eventually being put in charge of it.




                                                     - 10 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There were no problems that could be traced specifically to the performance of the implementing agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original project cost of the project was estimated at USD 35.7 million of which Loan Nr.
4481-LT was to finance USD 20.1 million / EUR 18.89 million. The total amount of loan resources
disbursed at the Closing Date was EUR 14.2 million. EUR 4.6 million (or 24% of the original loan
amount) were cancelled in December 2004. (The original Closing Date of June 30, 2005 was not extended
and no such request was made by the Government.)

With the exception of the EUR 200,000 (DKK 1.5 million) MIG from DEA for the Zarasai district heating
project no other MDL project benefited from bilateral investment grant financing and all other donor
contributions to MDL were strictly limited to the direct financing of technical assistance. (A combined
about EUR 2.4 million of MIGs was provided by Denmark, Finland and Sweden for other MDP projects,
however.)

Availability of counterpart financing was never a problem.

Audits for the first three years were provided in a timely fashion and were unqualified. In view of the
limited financial activity in the project the Bank waived the need for an annual audit of the project
accounts for the years 2003 and agreed to the preparation, instead, of a final consolidated audit for 2003
and 2004 and the first half of 2005 by December 2005.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the physical results of the various projects financed by MDL is assessed as highly likely.
Street lighting operations in Kaunas are a responsibility of the Kaunas municipality and financial resources
for regular operation and maintenance are appropriated in the City budget. Operation and maintenance of
schools rehabilitated under MDL is a joint responsibility of the beneficiary municipalities and the Ministry
of Education. The investments in the district heating systems form part of the overall networks and
installations that are owned and operated by the beneficiary utilities.

A goal which MDL failed to achieve was the creation of a mechanism of permanent and effective
coordination of funding of municipal investments from external sources. Although HUDF/CPMA
performed well in its role as PMU for the three IFI municipal credit lines it was not chosen by the
Government to manage the implementation of projects financed by ISPA and the EU Cohesion Funds. As a
result, upon closing of the three IFI credit lines, the role of HUDF/CPMA as a manager of municipal
investments in Lithuania will be over (the NIB loan closed on December 31, 2004; the WB loan closed on
June 30, 2005; the EIB loan is expected to close, after extension, in 2007), though it will, for the time
being, continue managing various other externally funded programs in other sectors.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

As mentioned above, operations of municipal services and utilities will be operated by the existing
municipal departments or utility companies. Operation of schools is a joint responsibility of the Ministry of
Education and the municipalities.




                                                      - 11 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Bank performance at lending was unsatisfactory. Quality at Entry has been described in detail in Section
3.5 and was assessed as unsatisfactory due to the project's deficiencies in design, institutional analysis, and
readiness for implementation. First discussions about a possible project started in 1994 and actual work on
MDL preparation began in 1995. Preparation was supported by two successive PHRD Grants (TF025544
and TF029137) of a combined total of USD 728,000. The two grants financed feasibility studies for
possible projects as well as institutional and technical studies for a municipal credit facility. For the
reasons explained earlier, however, only a small portion of these studies was actually used for the
implementation of MDL.


7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. However, the ICR rates project
supervision as moderately satisfactory. As not unusual, the main concern of the project team throughout
the life of the project was to keep procurement and disbursement going at a satisfactory rate. To this end,
the Bank showed a great flexibility and openness to changes. It agreed to a series of changes and waivers
for the purpose of accelerating procurement and increasing disbursements, as demonstrated, for instance,
by the consent given to the 2002 school rehabilitation program.

A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was carried out in November/December 2001, barely one year after
commencement of project activities. It correctly identified some of the major short-comings and obstacles
hampering implementation, but failed to propose an agenda of concrete actions to address the issues.
Concurrently, efforts were made to open a dialogue on issues of municipal finance policies through the
preparation of an ESW report: `Issues in Municipal Finance' (Rep. No. 23716-LT of May 16, 2002).
MTR also addressed the issue of lacking monitoring indicators and established a set of such indicators
(which were judged difficult to use by HUDF/CPMA, however, and, due to the direction already taken by
MDL were largely irrelevant).

MDL's status was downgraded to `U' in 2003 and re-established as a `S' in 2005, even though no
substantial changes had taken place other than that the Government had agreed to cancel the uncommitted
balance of the loan.

All supervision missions were generally adequately staffed and, despite the lack of project activity, carried
out with satisfactory periodicity.

A major issue for supervision was that during the first years of implementation the project team together
with HUDF/CPMA took the position that, since MDL was part of the larger MDP, what needed to be
monitored, and reported on, was the progress achieved in the implementation of the MDP as a whole. In
keeping with this position, the performance of MDL continued to be assessed as `satisfactory' on the
strength of the good performance of the other two IFI credit lines despite the poor results of MDL itself.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of the unsatisfactory Quality at Entry and the moderately satisfactory quality of supervision, the
Bank's overall performance is assessed as unsatisfactory.

Borrower



                                                     - 12 -

7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in project preparation is assessed as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of the Government in the implementation of MDL is assessed as marginally
unsatisfactory for the following reasons: in implementing the MDP, the Government concentrated
primarily on making use of the resources available in the NIB and EIB credit lines and treated MDL as a
secondary source of funding. Coordination among ministries interested in municipal investments was
relatively ineffective as can be concluded from the length of time it took to get the PIP issue resolved and/or
the fact that HUDF/CPMA could not be confirmed as the principal entity responsible for managing
municipal investments funded from external sources. Even though it became evident as of 2002 that
significant improvements in the performance of MDL implementation were unlikely, the Government was
reluctant to request an early cancellation of the remaining uncommitted loan balance until 2005.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of HUDF/CPMA was generally satisfactory. Its achievements as implementing agency
for the MDP program as a whole were considered outstanding by the donor community as demonstrated by
the fact that, in 2002, the General Manager received the Swedish Baltic Sea Water Award.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

On the basis of the above, overall borrower performance is assessed as moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lithuania's (and some other Eastern Europe countries') experience with the transition to market economy
and subsequently joining the EU was a unique historical event. For this very reason, many of the issues
encountered during the implementation of this project are so specific to this historical and political situation
that they cannot provide useful lessons for other Bank operations in other parts of the world.

Nevertheless there are a few general lessons that can be drawn:

l The actual comparative advantage of the Bank in a competitive financial market environment should be
    assessed more objectively before making lending decisions. The terms and conditions of the loans
    provided by the two sister IFIs as well as the ties of these IFIs to the EU were fully known prior to
    Board approval of MDL. Even though it was only in 1999 that Lithuania was invited by the EU to
    open formal membership discussions and therefore gained access to EU pre-accession grant funding,
    the likelihood of this happening had been taken into account in the SAR albeit without recognizing it as
    a risk. A more objective assessment of the project risks in this context might have led to conclude that
    not pursuing MDL preparation was a preferable option.

l Institutional development and policy objectives must be supported by corresponding resources if their
    credibility is to be preserved. The institutional development and policy objectives of MDL were
    extremely ambitious. However, MDL failed to provide the resources and expertise that would have
    been necessary for achieving them. Scaling down the scope and range of objectives at an early stage
    and matching them with available resources could have prevented a number of misunderstandings or
    misperceptions of the project's actual scope, potential role, and possible results.




                                                     - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 14 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                             - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                     Indicator                                       MTR       Actual
                                                                                     Rev.              /1
                                                                                              Mid-2003
                                                                                    targets


Training

No of municipalities completing investment planning                                  20         n.a.

No of municipalities completing procurement training                                  16         n.a.



Pipeline Management

No of feasibility studies completed                                                  20           4

No of appraisals completed                                                               /2
                                                                                     n.a          3

No of sub-loan agreements signed                                                         /2        /3
                                                                                     n.a         4

No. of projects completed                                                             16           /3
                                                                                                 4




/1
         HUDF/CPMA stopped regular reporting on MDL implementation progress in June 2003.
/2
         No MDL specific indicator was defined, existing targets refer to MDP as a whole.
/3
         Indicator refers to date of MDL completion on June 30, 2005.




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component

                                                       Appraisal      Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                  Component                            Estimate       Estimate           Appraisal
                                                     EUR million      EUR million
Institutional Capacity Building                           9.1               2.5            22 %
Municipal Investment Projects                            23.3              18.5             79%
HUDF/CPMA Support                                         0.9               1.2            133%
Total Baseline Cost                                      33.3


Unallocated (contingencies)
                           Physical contingencies         0.0
                             Price Contingencies          0.0
Total Project Cost                                       33.3              22.2            66%


Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate in EUR million)

                                                          Procurement Method
   Expenditure              ICB                 NCB               Other            NFB             Total
     Category
Works                                                              23.3                             23.3
                                                                  (18.6)                           (18.6)
Goods
Services                                                                           10.0             10.0
                                                                                   (0.0)            (0.0)
     Total                                                         23.3            10.0             33.3
                                                                  (18.6)           (0.0)           (18.6)
(Figures in parentheses show amounts financed from the Bank loan)


Project Cost by Procurement arrangement (Actual/latest in EUR million)

                                                          Procurement Method
   Expenditure              ICB                 NCB               Other            NFB             Total
     Category
Works                        4.1                 14.4                                               18.5
                                                                                                   (14.3)
Goods
Services                                                                            3.7              3.7
                                                                                   (0.0)            (0.0)
     Total                                                                                          22.2
                                                                                                   (14.3)
(Figures in parentheses show amounts financed from the Bank loan)




                                                         - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was calculated at appraisal.
Currently available data do not allow estimating a meaningful ERR, FRR or NPV  for any of the
components.




                                               - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1995              4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)
              April 1996                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MUN. DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
              July 1996                 1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
              September 1996            3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MUN. DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              Nobember 1996             2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              February 1997             2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              July 1997                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MUN. DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
              October 1997              1    MUN. DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
              February 1998             1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              April 1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1998                 8    SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CO-FINANCING
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              August 1998               4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              October 1998              8    SECTOR DIRECTOR (1);
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1) TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CO-FINANCING SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1) CONSULTANTS (2)



                                              - 19 -

Supervision
           September 1999    1 PROJECT FINANCE (1)          S    S
           February 2000     3 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER          U    S
                               /MISSION LEADER (1);
                               DEPUTY TEAM LEADER (1);
                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                               (1)
           June 2000         4 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER          S    U
                               (1); DEPUTY TEAM LEADER
                               (1); MDF SPECIALIST (1);
                               LAWYER (1)
           September 2000    6 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER          S    S
                               (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                               (2); MDF SPECIALIST (1);
                               FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                               MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
           March 2001        3 PROGRAM TEAM LEADER          S    S
                               (1); DEPUTY TEAM LEADER
                               (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                               (1)
           June 2002         5 TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                               PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                               (1); FINANCIAL SECTOR
                               SPEC. (1); MUNICIPAL
                               FINANCE (1); FMS (1)
           April 2003        7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                               INSITUTIONAL DEV. (1);
                               MUNICIPAL FINANCE (1);
                               FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                               DISTRICT HT ENGINEER (1);
                               URBAN SECTOR MANAGER
                               (1); FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                               (1)
            February 2004    3 TEAM LEADER (1);ENERGY       U    U
                               SPEECIALIST (1);
                               CONSULTANT (1)
           October 2004      1 MISSION LEADER (1)           U    U
           May 2005          2 MISSION LEADER               S    U
                               (1),ENERGY SPECIALIST (1)




                               - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                      449,385.94
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                       included above
  Supervision                                                     531,298.53
  Total                                                           980,684.47




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Quarterly HUDF/CPMA Implementation Progress Reports No. 1-12 (March 2000 - June 2003).




                                           - 24 -

- 25 -

