Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4481 LT
Project Agreement
(Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Dated December 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4481 LT 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION (HUDF). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between REPUBLIC OF 
LITHUANIA (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to eighteen million eight hundred ninety thousand Euro (EUR 
18,890,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that HUDF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS HUDF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
Page  2
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) HUDF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental protection practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HUDF shall otherwise agree, HUDF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and the applicable provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) HUDF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HUDF shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and HUDF, a plan for the 
future operation of the facilities 
financed under the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
HUDF on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. HUDF shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HUDF shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) HUDF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Implementation Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HUDF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by HUDF of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Implementation Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of HUDF 
Section 3.01. HUDF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. HUDF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  3
Section 4.01. (a) HUDF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
HUDF shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HUDF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HUDF thereof. 
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For HUDF:
A Juozapaviciaus 9
Page  4
LT-2600
Vilnius
Republic of Lithuania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HUDF under the 
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by HUDF or such other person or persons as 
HUDF shall designate in writing, and HUDF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
By /s/ Vytautas Dudenas
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program
HUDF shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
