Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4481 LT
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4481 LT 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) In order to encourage the sound economic development of municipal 
infrastructure on the territory of the Borrower, the Government of the Borrower has 
adopted a program (the Municipal Development Program) designed to support the 
construction and rehabilitation of municipal infrastructure facilities through the 
carrying out, by Participating Municipalities and Entities (as hereinafter defined), 
of qualifying municipal sub-projects approved by the relevant municipal administrative 
bodies for purposes consistent with each Participating Municipality’s public 
investment plan, and consisting of specific measures, including the measures described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to facilitate such municipal infrastructure 
development; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project as part of the Municipal 
Development Program;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance of 
the Housing and Urban Development Foundation (HUDF), and with the participation of the 
Participating Municipalities and Entities, all in accordance with the provisions of 
the Implementation Agreement (as hereinafter defined) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and HUDF, as provided in this Agreement;  
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from European Investment Bank (EIB) a 
Page  2
loan (the EIB Loan) to assist in financing part of the Municipal Development Program 
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EIB (the EIB Loan Agreement);  
(E)
by an agreement dated January 19, 1998, as amended, between the Borrower 
and Nordic Investment Bank (the NIB Loan Agreement), NIB has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in a principal amount of 20 million ECU (the NIB Loan) to assist in 
financing part of the Municipal Development Program on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the NIB Loan Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HUDF (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“ALAL” means the Association of Local Authorities of Lithuania, a public 
association established and operating pursuant to Law No. I-833 of the Borrower 
approving the Basic Regulations of ALAL, dated March 28, 1995; 
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Category (1) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; 
(e)
“HUDF” means the public institution Housing and Urban Development 
Foundation operating pursuant to its by-laws approved by Resolution No. 202 of the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower, dated July 29, 1999 and registered in the City of 
Vilnius on August 5, 1999, (Registration No. VS97-138);
(f)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement governing the relationship 
between the Borrower and HUDF, to be entered into between the Borrower and HUDF 
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and such term shall include any amendments 
to such agreement as may be made from time to time;
(g)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; 
(h)
“Municipal Infrastructure Grants” means grants made pursuant to Part B of 
Schedule 2 and Annex 2 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Borrower adopted by HUDF and setting forth the policies and procedures 
for implementation of the Project; 
(j)
“Participating Entity” means legal entities established by municipalities 
under the Borrower’s law on enterprises; and other entities providing municipal 
services under the authority of a Participating Municipality; 
Page  3
(k)
“Participating Municipality” means a municipality selected by the 
Borrower to participate in the Municipal Development Program in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of Annex I to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Participating Municipalities and Entities” means Participating 
Municipalities and Participating Entities; 
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HUDF of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Qualifying Sub-project Expenditures” means the reasonable cost of goods, 
works, services, working capital and other specific expenditures required for the 
carrying out of a Sub-project approved in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in Part A  of  Annex 1 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, provided that such 
expenditures are actually made or incurred by the Participating Municipality or Entity 
and are for items qualifying according to the eligibility criteria set forth or 
referred to in the Operational Manual; 
(p)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(q)
“Statutes” means the charter, statutes, articles of incorporation, 
founders’ agreement, license, regulations, or special laws or decrees relating to the 
establishment, or governing the operations of HUDF; 
(r)
“Sub-loan” means a loan, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, to a Participating Municipality or Entity for purposes of 
financing all or a portion of the costs required for the carrying out of a 
Sub-project; 
(s)
“Sub-loan Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower, through HUDF, and a Participating Municipality or Entity, providing for a 
Sub-loan, as referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 
(t)
“Sub-Project” means a specific infrastructure project meeting the 
criteria applicable to the Project, which has been selected by HUDF pursuant to the 
provisions of the Implementation Agreement and is proposed to be carried out by a 
Participating Municipality or Entity in whole or in part through the utilization of 
the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to HUDF. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to  eighteen 
million eight hundred ninety thousand Euro (EUR 18,890,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of a 
withdrawal made by a Participating Municipality or Entity under a Sub-loan under Part 
A of the Project, to meet the costs of Qualifying Sub-project Expenditures reasonably 
incurred under a Sub-project; and (ii) expenditures incurred in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
Page  4
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Euro for value 
the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
LIBOR Total Spread” means,  for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the  Loan  other than 
as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower  notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the  Loan  in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, with the assistance of HUDF as 
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
Page  5
protection practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of implementing the Project, 
enter into an implementation agreement with HUDF satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Implementation Agreement), whereby HUDF shall be appointed executing agent of the 
Borrower for carrying out such activities under the Project and obligations of the 
Borrower as shall have been specified therein and in respect of which the Borrower 
shall have made all necessary provision, including, inter alia: 
(a)
the carrying out by HUDF of Parts A and B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices and in 
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Project Agreement; 
(b)
the carrying out by HUDF of the procurement and related accounting for 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(c)
the establishment and continuous operation by HUDF of all facilities 
necessary for the appropriate administration of Project activities and related 
management functions undertaken by HUDF in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) 
of this Section.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
cause HUDF to perform in accordance with the applicable provisions of 
this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Implementation Agreement, the Operational 
Manual, and its Statutes, all the obligations and activities of HUDF therein set forth 
which may pertain to the Project; and take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable HUDF to perform such obligations; and not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, to comply with the 
provisions of this Agreement, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
relend to the Participating Municipal Entities the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1 of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of  Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower (acting in coordination with HUDF in accordance with 
the provisions of the Implementation Agreement) and each such Participating 
Municipality or Entity (the Sub-loan Agreements), under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include, without limitation, those 
set forth in Part B of Annex 1 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
exercise its rights under the Sub-loan Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to achieve the purposes of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof; 
(c)
coordinate the overall implementation of the Municipal Infrastructure 
Development Credit Facility and monitor the carrying out by the Participating 
Municipalities and Entities of their respective obligations under the Sub-loan 
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
Page  6
(d)
exercise due oversight over the selection and award of Municipal 
Infrastructure Grants under Part B of the Project to the respective Participating 
Municipalities and Entities in accordance with appropriate policy guidelines, 
eligibility criteria and approval procedures acceptable to the Bank, and cause the 
Participating Municipalities and Entities to carry out their respective obligations 
under the Municipal Infrastructure Grants in accordance with terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the eligibility criteria, procedures, and terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in Annex 2 to Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, with the assistance of HUDF: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.08. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and 
maintenance respectively) relating to Sub-projects under Parts A and B of the Project, 
shall be carried out by HUDF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause HUDF to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause HUDF to: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause HUDF to: 
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section records 
Page  7
and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause HUDF to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable HUDF, not later 
than June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
The Municipal Development Program shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement;
(b)
HUDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the Implementation Agreement;
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that HUDF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the 
Implementation Agreement;
(d)
The Statutes of HUDF shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of HUDF to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Implementation 
Agreement; and
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such grant or loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
(b)
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and HUDF;  
(b)
the Borrower has furnished notice to the Bank that the HUDF Operational 
Manual has been adopted by HUDF satisfactory to the Borrower;  
(c)
a Sub-loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has been entered into 
Page  9
between the Borrower and the Participating Municipality or Entity for a Sub-loan 
approved in conformity with the procedures described in Annex 1 to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and  
(d)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HUDF, 
and is legally binding upon HUDF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and HUDF is legally binding upon the Borrower and HUDF in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
J. Tumo-Vaizganto 8a/2
Vilnius, 2600
Lithuania
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Vilnius, Republic of Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By /s/ Vytautas Dudenas
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.         General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the USD Tranche of the Loan and 
of the amounts of the Euro Tranche of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
     Euro)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans extended
   16,901,100
100%
under Sub-projects
(2)
Fee
      188,900
Amount due 
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(3)
Unallocated
    1,800,000
TOTAL
   18,890,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:  
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Annex I to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and  
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding  and EUR 
1,800,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Part A of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 30, 1999.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; and (iii) for services, under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 for equivalent for individuals, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts in respect of each Loan 
Tranche to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Page  11
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  12
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to  EUR 1,840,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of the  
Loan and deposited into the  Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to  EUR 920,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the  Loan , plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of the Loan , shall equal or exceed the equivalent 
of  EUR 3,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of EUR 2,000,000.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s reforms of local 
government management and finance through: (i) capacity building at the municipal 
level; and (ii) development of a viable system of financing local government 
infrastructure investments. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Credit for Municipal Investment Projects
Establishment and operation of a credit facility for the financing of loans to 
Participating Municipalities and Entities, enabling such Participating Municipalities 
and Entities to finance part of the costs related to the carrying out of qualifying 
infrastructure sub-projects.
Part B:
Municipal Infrastructure Grants
Grants for the financing of qualifying infrastructure sub-projects by 
Participating Municipalities and Entities.
Part C:
Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance to enable HUDF, ALAL, and the Participating 
Municipalities and Entities to develop capacity to prepare, appraise, finance and 
manage municipal investments, including financing of audit costs. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
Euro)*
On each October 15 and April 15
beginning October 15, 2004, 
through October 15, 2015
785,000
On April 15, 2016
835,000
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
Page  14
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $800,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  15
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement:
A.
Overall Coordination and Management of the Project
The MOF shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the overall 
implementation of the Project in accordance with the objectives of the Municipal 
Development Program.
B.
Implementation of Municipal Development Credit Facility
1.
The eligibility of municipalities and municipal entities for participation in 
the Project shall be determined in accordance with guidelines to be set forth in an 
Operational Manual adopted by HUDF satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.  HUDF 
shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank, shall duly perform its obligations under the Operational Manual and 
shall not amend or waive the guidelines, conditions and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual without obtaining the prior approval of the Bank.
2.
Responsibility for specific administrative and supervision functions relating to 
the Municipal Development Credit Facility, including specific matters relating to the 
coordination and support of Sub-project preparation, the administration of Sub-loans, 
procurement, disbursements, financial and other reporting and auditing, shall be 
delegated to the HUDF pursuant to the provisions of an agreement (the Implementation 
Agreement) to be entered into between the MOF on the one hand, and the HUDF on the 
other, satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall select the commercial bank in which any Special Account is to 
be opened.
4.
Procedures for the accounting of obligations under Sub-loans, and for the 
transfers to, and receipt of payment from, the respective Participating Municipal 
Entities, shall be established by MOF using practices and arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank.
C.
Implementation of Part C of the Project
1.
Specific programs and activities shall be carried out in accordance with a 
budget, schedule and work plan satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The qualifications, experience and terms of reference for any consultants 
engaged to perform activities under Part C of the Project shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank.
ANNEX 1  TO SCHEDULE 5
Municipal Development Credit Facility: Eligibility, Approval 
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Part A:
Eligibility and Approval Procedures
1.
No expenditures under any Sub-Project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved 
by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred 
twenty (120) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Annex I to Schedule 
5 in respect of such Sub-loan.
2.
Eligibility of specific Sub-project expenditures for financing out of the 
Municipal Development Credit Facility described under Part A of the Project shall be 
determined in accordance with specific criteria for selection and appraisal of the 
proposed Sub-project and following such procedures as shall have been established by 
the HUDF for such purpose as set forth in the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank, which shall include without limitation, the selection and 
appraisal criteria and procedures set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 of this Part 
Page  16
A of this Schedule.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval, HUDF shall furnish 
to the Bank the application of the Participating Municipality or Entity concerned, in 
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Participating 
Municipality or Entity and the proposed Sub-project, including a description of the 
goods, works and services proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan 
and the specific manner in which the costs of such goods, works and services are to be 
determined; (ii) the draft Sub-loan Agreement containing the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; 
(iii) the appraisal report and recommendation of the HUDF concerning the Sub-project; 
and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Applications made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 2003.
4.
In addition to the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 through 3 of Part A of 
this Annex to Schedule 5, the following procedures shall be followed in connection 
with the selection and appraisal of the Sub-projects:
(a)
The prospective Participating Municipality or Entity shall first prepare 
an application in form satisfactory to HUDF, together with a description of the 
proposed Sub-project, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Bank.
(b)
HUDF shall appraise the proposed Sub-project, on the basis of the 
evaluation criteria as set forth in the Operational Manual.
(c)
Until at least two Sub-loans shall have been made to Participating 
Municipal Entities, in each of the following sectors: water/sanitation, solid waste, 
district heating, street lighting and urban infrastructure, urban transport, and 
energy insulation in schools and municipal buildings, and at any time thereafter, 
whenever a Sub-loan is proposed to be made in an amount greater than EUR 1,200,000, 
HUDF shall ensure that each qualifying Sub-Project for which a Sub-loan is proposed to 
be made is submitted in advance to the Bank for approval, such approval to be based on 
a review and appraisal of the proposed Sub-project in such manner and of such scope as 
the Bank shall determine to be reasonably necessary. The Borrower shall conclude the 
Sub-loan Agreement with the Participating Municipality or Entity only after the Bank 
has expressed its concurrence with respect to the financing of the Sub-project.
(d)
Once the first two Sub-loans shall have been made to Participating 
Municipal Entities in a given sector, and unless otherwise specified by the Bank, HUDF 
shall enter into the respective Sub-loan Agreement with the Participating Municipal 
Entities within a reasonable period following the approval of the Sub-loan by HUDF.
(e)
The Sub-loan Agreement with the Participating Municipal Entities shall 
give the MOF legal rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, and shall contain, inter alia, the terms and conditions enumerated in Part B 
of this Annex 1 to Schedule 5.
Part B:
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall: (a) be denominated  Euro; and (b) be 
valued as the equivalent, in  Euro as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account, of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the Qualifying 
Sub-project Expenditures made or incurred by the Participating Municipality or Entity 
for the goods, works and services under the Sub-project, to the extent that such 
amounts are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part B of this Annex 1 to Schedule 5.
2.
The maximum amount of any Sub-loan shall be determined by the HUDF in accordance 
with the particular financing plan submitted as part of each Participating 
Municipality or Entity’s Sub-loan application. Such amount many not exceed the total 
costs of goods, works and services under the Sub-project excluding amounts payable by 
Page  17
the Participating Municipality or Entity on account of taxes for such goods, works and 
services; provided, however, that the amount of expenditures to be financed under a 
Sub-loan shall not in any event exceed ninety percent (0%) of the total costs of such 
Sub-project; and provided that the amount of any Sub-loan shall not under any 
circumstances exceed EUR 2,800,000 equivalent.
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the rate determined as the sum of an 
index rate (representing the rate determined pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan 
Agreement), plus a margin determined by the Borrower in accordance with practices and 
policies satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Sub-loans shall be repayable over a term and grace period determined according 
to the nature of the Sub-project and in the currencies of the Sub-loan (Dollars and 
Euro) at the rate of exchange, established by the Central Bank of the Borrower for 
interbank transactions at the time of the respective due date of each such repayment.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Participating Municipality or Entity or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, 
including: 
(a)
the right to require the Participating Municipality or Entity to carry 
out the Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices, and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)
the right to require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured under the supervision of HUDF in 
accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Agreement and in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-Project;
(c)
the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank if the Bank shall so request, the sites included in the Sub-Project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
the right to obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Participating Municipality or Entity and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Sub-Project; 
(e)
the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Participating 
Municipality or Entity to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such 
Participating Municipality or Entity to perform its obligations under the Sub-loan 
Agreement; and
(f)
in the case of a Sub-loan to a Participating Entity, the guarantee of the 
Participating Municipality; and in the case of a Sub-loan to a Participating 
Municipality, adequate collateral securing the repayment of the Sub-loan.
ANNEX 2 
TO
SCHEDULE 5
Municipal Infrastructure Grants
1.
The purpose of the Municipal Infrastructure Grants is to reduce the share of the 
total Sub-project cost financed by a Sub-loan, where justified. Hence, Municipal 
Infrastructure Grants shall be made on the condition that the share of the costs of 
the Sub-project which are determined to be eligible to be financed out of a Sub-loan 
shall be proportionately reduced in accordance with a methodology and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Municipal Infrastructure Grants may be made to Participating Municipalities and 
Entities which shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower that they 
meet the eligibility criteria for municipal infrastructure grants set forth in the 
Page  18
Operational Manual.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan unless the Municipal Infrastructure Grant for such Sub-project 
shall have been approved by the Borrower and such expenditures shall have been made 
not earlier than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date on which the Borrower 
shall have received the application and information required in respect of such 
Municipal Infrastructure Grant.
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(c) at any time the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or 
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
actions satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) by the 
date specified in 
paragraph 3 (b) of Section I of the Annex 1 to Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank 
shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) 
have received no applications or requests 
under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said 
paragraph 3; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to 
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon 
the 
giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled.
