Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6904-BDa
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY VOLUME
December 22, 1987
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restried distibution and may be ue by repileus only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be d osed out World Bank auwrizaion.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Bangladesh Taka       *             100 paisa
US$1 (October 1987)                 Tk 31.0 (Official Rate)
Tk 33.0 (Free Market Wage
Earner's Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (a)            =             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.62 mile (mi)
1 heceare (ha)                       2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
AIT     -  Asian Institute of Technology
BADC    -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC    -  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BRDB    -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB    -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
b.      -  When preceding a crop means broadcast
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CTU     -  Canadian Technical Unit
DAE     -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DTI     -  Deep Tubewell
FA      -  Force Account
FCD     -  Flood Control and Drainage
FRW     -  Flood Rehabilitation Works
FFW     -  Food-For-Work Programme
COB     -  Government of Bangladesh
RIV     -  Hand Tubewell
HYV     -  High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LLP     -  Low Lift Pump
M&E     -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
mOF     -  Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI     -  Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
MLG     -  Ministry of Local Covernment, Rural Development and Cooperatives
MPO     -  Master Planning Organization
NWCL    -  Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd.
NWP     -  National Water Plan
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PIU     -  Project Implementation Unit
PPAR    -  Project Performance Audit Report
PP      -  Project Proforma
SSDFC   -  Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
SSFCDI  -  Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
STW     -  Shallow Tubewell
t.      -  When preceding a crop means transplanted
WFP     -  World Food Programme



FOR O CMIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Man       -  BRice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December.
Aus       -  Rice planted during February or March and harvested during June
or July.
Boro      -  Rice transplanted in December or January and harvested in April
or May.
Iharif    -  Surer cropping season (May through October).
labi      -  Winter cropping seaon (October through May).
Notisoon   -  Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Beel         Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water.
Khal      -  Natural channel
District  -  Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy Commissioner
comprising a number of Upazilas.
Upasila   -  Smallest administrative unit of local government
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



\i~-
C§?,\



BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
ANNEXES
1.   Guidelines for Preparation of Subprojects (SSFCDI Works)
2.  Project Management System - Terms of Reference (SSFCDI Works)
Table 1 : Staffing Schedule
3.   Consultancy Services During Implementation - Terms of Reference (FRW)
4. Mathematical Modelling Studies of River Sections Protected by the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment - Guidelines for Preparation of Terms of
Reference
5.   Summary Statement Cost (FRW)
6.   List of Identified Schemes (FRW)



lil
I-i
'S'.
l\v\



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Preparation of Subprojects (SSFCDI Works)
I. Introduction
1.01    Proforma have been designed to assist in assembling technical infor-
mation required for the preparation of identification and feasibility
:eports. Different project components, consisting of fully planned sub-
projects and appurtenant structures subprojects (including rehabilitation and
repair works) would have different standards for acceptance. Separate
proforma have been designed for these components.
1.02    The procedure to be adopted is given below:
(a) Identification reports for all subprojects prepared by BWDB field
divisions, as described in proforma detailed below and discussed with
the Superintending Engineer of the Circle, would be submitted to the
PIU for review. PIU would be assisted by CTU and the FFW Unit in the
Flood Control Cell of BWDB.
(b) Identification reports on proposed rehabilitation and repair works
would have sufficient data to enable PIU to present these subprojects
at the five-party meeting to be scheduled for September of each year
(Proforma One). At this meeting, decisions would be taken to proceed
with detailed engineering.
(c) Identification reports on proposed appurtenant structures subprojects
would have sufficient data to enable PIU to prepare a feasibility
report (Proforma Two) and present it to the five-party meeting of
September, recommending that it proceed with the detailed engineering
of the subprojects.
(d) Identification reports on proposed fully planned subprojects would
have sufficient data to enable PIU to recommend that the subprojects
advance to the feasibility phase (Proforma Three).



-2-
ANX 1
Page 2
(e) PIU would also draw up work programs, technical specifications, and
tender documents, as necessary, for conducting topographical surveys
and geotechnical investigations to required standards (feasibility
level, detailed engineering, etc.).
II. Proforma One
Identification Report for all subprojects
2.01    Name of Subproject and Location.  District and Upazila, BWDB Circle
and Division, and brief description of access.
2.02    Type.  Drainage, flood control, irrigation, and/or salinity control.
2.03    Food-For-Work (this information is not needed for repair and
rehabilitation works).
(a) Type of work: viz re-excavation of khals, new or resectioned embank-
ments, access roads, etc.
(b) Quantities in cu meters of earthwork and metric tons of wheat
required.
(c) Year and WFP reference number.
gd) Brief comment on the availability of a comprehensive plan and
detailed designs. Was the work undertaken on a phased program? If
so, give details and progress. If not completed, give the remaining
balance and program of works.
2.04    History, Present Status, and Problems
(a) Describe history of the subproject with regard to its planning,
design, construction, and operation. Are feasibility reports avail-
able? Is the subproject a part of a larger project or polder
development? If so, what are the reasons for not taking up the
development of the larger project or polder?
(b) For rehabilitation and repair works: give details of works, cause of
damage (inappropriate design, ineffective operation and/or delayed
maintenance, natural disaster, etc.), preliminary design sketches,
cost, and implementation period.
(c) For appurtenant structures: indicate whether there are additional
requirements to resolve technical problems such as rapid draining of
low pockets, inadequate wateoway provided, structure to be located in
a gap in the embankment, access impeded as a result of FFW, etc.
(d) For fully planned schemes: describe existing situation. If scheme is
partly completed, provide sufficient information on completed works
and prepare a preliminary estimate of works remaining to be done and
cost of such work. Also, provide sketch plans of existing works.



-3-                            ANNEX 1
Page 3
Describe briefly the problems constraining agricultural development
under pre-project conditions.
2.05    Proposal.  Describe overall plans, details of proposed structures
with sketches, cost estimate, and implementation period.
2.06    Land Acquisition.  Give preliminary estimate of area and cost of land
needed. Has land already been acquired? If not, describe the present status
and owner's response to acquisition.
2.07    Environmental Impact
Item                     Improved  No Change  Reduced  Not Applicable
Crop Production
Fish Production
Shrimp Production
Land Transportation
Water Transportation
Effect on Adjacent
Areas
Drainage System Within
Project Area
Sedimentation Within
Project Area
Other
2.08    Selection Criteria
Responsibility
for Determining
For All Subprojects                               Conformity
(a) Subject to an up-to-date appraisal                     PIU
including an evaluation of hydrology,
soils, crops, fisheries, transport
requirements, and impact on adjacent
areas.
(b) For all subprojects, except repair and                  PIU
rehabilitation works, ERR should be at
least 15% on project investments
(excluding sunk costs).
(c) Discussions with beneficiaries,                        Field
local authorities, and GOB                          Divisions
technical staff.
(d) For irrigation schemes:  beneficiaries                 Field
willingness to execute command area                  Divisions
development below eight ha turnouts.



-4_                             ANNEX 1
Page 4
(e) Beneficiaries' willingness to con-                     Field
tribute towards O&M upon subproject                 Divisions
completion.
For Appurtenant Structures Subprojects (including repair and
rehabilitation works)
(f) Cost not to exceed US$ 375 per ha.                     Field
Divisions
(g) Original design prepared by BWDB and earth-            Field
works constructed under FFW program or              Divisions
programmed to be done (not needed
for repair and rehabilitation works).
(h) Base cost not to exceed US$ 400,000.                   Field
Divisions
(i) To be completed within two construction                Field
seasons#                                            Divisions
For Fully Planned Schemes
Cj) For flood control and drainage schemes:                Field
cost not to exceed US$ 500 per ha.                  Divisions
(k) For irrigation schemes: cost not to                    Field
exceed US$ 2,000 per ha.                            Divisions
(l) For flood control, drainage and                        Field
irrigation schemes: cost not                        Divisions
to exceed US$ 2,500 per ha.
(m) For flo'i control and drainage                         Field
schemes: gross protected area                       Divisions
not to exceed 7,500 ha.
(n) For irrigation schemes: net area                       Field
not to exceed 1,000 ha.                             Divisions
(o) Base cost not to exceed US$ 1.5 M.                     Field
Divisions
(p) To be completed within three                           Field
construction seasons.                               Divisions
Note:   For appurtenant structures schemes (excluding repair and rehabili-
tation works) and fully planned schemes, conformity to the criteria
should be verified by PIU after detailed engineering and feasibility
studies, respectively, have been completed.



-5-                           ANNEX 1
Page 5
Agricultural Data (not needed for repair and rehabilitation works)
2.09    Soils.  Indicate which of the following major surface soil textural
classes are predominant: sand, sandy loam, loam, clay loam, silty clay, clay.
Attach soil maps, if available.
2.10    Land Types.  Indicate the percentages of each of the following land
types within the project area, before and aftee improvements.
X Before   x After
(a) Highland: flooding up to 0.3 meters
(b) Medium Highland: flooding 0.3 to 0.9 meters
(c) Medium Lowland: flooding 0.9 to 1.8 meters
(d) Lowland: flooded deeper than 1.8 meters
Total                      100        100
2.11    Cropping Patterns.  Describe the cropping pattern on the above four
r
land types under pre-project and post-project conditions. Crops should be
specified, viz8 aus, b. aman (local and deep flooded varieties), t. aman
(local, HYV, LIV), boro (local without irrigation), irrigated boro (LIV,
H'iV), wheat, jute, and other rabi crops. Data to be given in a tabulated
form. Give reasons for changes in cropping pattern, yields, areas, etc. In
addition, estimate shrimp and fish production before and after the preject.
2.12    Plan of Operation.  If proposals are for improvements or rehabilita-
tion, describe briefly the existing plan of operation and the condition of
the existing works. The plan of operation should include information on
GOB's and beneficiaries' responsibilities, budget and programme of work,
effectiveness of O&M (viz: gate operation, maintenance of embankments, and
drainage canals, rotational system for irrigation projects, etc.). Are
beneficiaries willing to operate and maintain project works? To what extent?
Basic Engineering Data (not needed for repair and rehabilitation works)
2.13    Flood Data.  Describe the average annual flood conditions in the
subproject area.
Flood Depth          Elevation (M)   Incremental   Cumulative   Z of Total
(Meters)          From       To        Area          Area          Area
-------- Hectare--------
Not Flooded
0- 0.3 M
0.3- 0.9 M
0.9- 1.8 M
Above 1.8 M



-6-                            ANNEX 1
Page 6
2.14    Work Load of the Division
Project   Completion   Financing
Name of Project       Scope of Work       Cost         %         -Agency
III. Proforma Two
Feasibility Study for Apgurtenant Structur9s Subprojects (excluding repair
and rehabilitation works)
3.01    Objective.  The studies are conducted to determine tho economic rate
of return (ERR) in order to determine whether or not the subproject goes into
the detailed engineering phase.
3.02    Summar .  This para would summarize the findings of the feasibility
report, lincluding scheme area, number of farm families that would benefit,
anual foodgrain production and its value at economic farmgate prices, annLal
incremental agricultural employment in man-days, impact on alleviation of
poverty, and the ERR.
3.03    Engineering Analysis, Preliminary Designs, and Outline Drawings.
These are needed for all works to be financed under the project and
earthworks to be done on FFW and should include the following:
(a) Hydrological Analysis. Determination of the cumulative effect of
rainfall within the empoldered area taking into consideration the
simultaneous rise of water levels at the outfall rivers. An analysis
of the empoldered area for varying options on hydraulic capacity
would indicate the optimum hydraulic capacity to discharge peak flood
flows in the quickest possible time with a minimum submerged area.
The drainage rate for use in the design of drainage canals and
embankments would also be obtained from this analysis. The polder
analysis would include meteorological and river stage data. The
related tables for the polder analysis and the hydraulic design
parameters would be used for the preliminary designs.
(b) Preliminary Designs and Outline Drawings. As far as possible, BWDB
type-designs should be followed. Sketch plans of structures, embank-
ments and drainage canals should be included.
3.04    Capital Cost Estimates                    Unit   Quantity   Cost
Preconstruction Activities
1. Land Acquisition
2. Investigations and Surveys



-7-
ANNEX 1
Page 7
Capital Cost Estimates                   Unit   Quantity   Cost
Civil Works
3. Hydraulic Structures
4. Access Infrastructure
5. Earthwork on FFW
Subtotal Base Cost
Overheads
6. Project OH, 8% of Subtotal
7. HQ OH, 2.5% of Subtotal Above
Total Base Cost
8. Physical Contingencies
10% of   Base Cost
Total Project Cost
Cost per ha =   Benefitted Area
Note:  Access infrastructure to be provided should conform to the selection
criteria. Land acquisition should be supported by a sketch plan.
Proposals for surveys and investigations should include details on
long. sections in km, cross sections in nos., site surveys in nos.
and average area, and rates for each item. Benefitted areas for flood
control and drainage subprojects should refer to gross areas and for
irrigation subprojects to net areas.
3.05    Annual Operations and Maintenance Cost Estimate.  Calculate in the
table below the annual O&M costs, as a percentage of capital cost.
X of Capital
Description                      Capital Cost       Cost      Amount
Civil Works                                          1.5
Field Overheads                                       LS
HQ Overheads                                          LS
Contingencies, 10%
of Items Above
Total Annual O&M Cost



-8-                             ANNEX 1
Page 8
3.06    Crop Production and Values
Pre-Project Condition             Post-Project Condition
prop           Area  Yield  Production  Value   Area  Yield  Production  Value
ha   mt/ha  -mt            Tk      ha   mt/ha      mt         Tk
Total
Cropping         Total Crop Area X 100   Cropping       Total Crop Area X 100
Intensity        Net Benefitted Area      Intensity =  Net Benefitted Area
Changes in Cropping Intensity         %
Changes in Production Value           %
3.07    Direct Crop Production Cost--Pre-Project Condition
Draft                                      Total   Total
Labor/ha   Power/ha    Seed/ha  Fert/  Pest/  Irrig    Crop   Prod.
o2    DaysC         D Cost   Cost  K   Cost  ha    ha      ha      Area   Cost
3.08    Direct Crop Production Cost--Post-Project Condition
Draft                                      Total   Total
Labor/ha   Power/ha    Seed/ha  Fert/  Pest/  Irrig    Crop   Prod.
Crop    Days Cost  Days Cost  X   Cost  ha         ha      ha      Area   Cost
Notes for Paras 3.07 and 3.08
(a) Analysis is based on a typical farm of 1 ha (2.5 ac).
(b) Economic prices to be used for seed, fertilizer, and insecticides.
These should be based on international prices.
(c) Irrigation cost would include water charges by COB and charges for
water distribution within command area of LLP, gravity turnouts,
STW, and DTW.
(d) Cost per ha for fertilizer and pest control should be supported by
details on fertilizer type, quantity, rate, and cost for each type
and crop.
(e) Land rentals, interest on short-term loans, and local land taxes
cannot be easily obtained and are highly variable between farms in
the same subproject. As such, these should be excluded from
production costs.



-9-                             ANNEX 1
Page 9
3.09    Annual Benefit.  Calculate the annual benefit to be derived in the
subproject area.
Pre-Project       Post-Project
Item                            Value              Value        Increment
1. Gross Annual Production Value
(from para 3.06)
2. Annual Crop Production Costs
(from Paras 3.07 and 3.08)
3. Net Annual Benefit (Item 1
less Item 2)
Post-Project Value-Pre-Project Value X 100
X Increase in Net Annual Benefit=                  Pre-Project Value
3.10    Determination of Economic Rate of Return.  Complete the undermen-
tioned table and, using a discount rate of 15% per annum, complete the last
line of the table. A positive figure at the end of the life of project
estimated at 30 years after completion of project works would indicate that
the project is ecosuomically viable.
Economic Benefits
Years
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8-30
1. Production Benefits With Project
2. On-farm Cost With Project
3. Gross Benefit With Project tl)-(2)
4. Production Benefit Without Project
5. On-farn. Cost Without Project
6. Gross Benefit Without Project (4)-C5)
7. Project Benefit (3)-(6)
8. Investment Costs
9. O&M Costs
10. Total Project Cost (8)+(9)
11. Net Project Benefit (7)-(10)
12. Net Benefit Discounted at 15%
Notes
(a) Life of the project is taken as 30 years, including 3 years for comple-
tion of project works. The project is expected to attain maturity at 5
years after completion.
(b) Future farmgate prices for internationally traded commodities should be
derived from current IBRD price projections in constant currency values
with appropriate adjustment for freight, handling, processing, etc.
Non-traded cost and benefit items should be adjusted by a Standard Con-
version Factor (SCF) of 0.80 to bring them to the same price basis as
traded ones. Official exchange rates for the Taka should be used.



-10-                           ANNEX 1
Page 10
(c) Shadow wage rates for labour should be the average prevailing rates
weighted by the approximate length cf season over which they prevail.
This rate should be discounted by the factor 0.75 to revalue it in border
Taka.
(d) Investment and O&M costs should be exclusive of taxes, duties and price
contingencies. Local costs should be expressed in bordet Taka after
applying SCF of 0.8. Capital cost of minor irrigation equipment should
not be included, but its O&M cost would be part of the farm budget. Land
acquisition costs for the economic analysis would be the value of produc-
tion foregone due to withdrawal of land from agricultural use and should
not be included separately in the analysis.
IV. Proforma Three
Feasibility Study for Fully Planned Subprojects
4.01    Contents
4.02    Names of Scheme, District, Upazila, Unions, and BWDB Field Divisions
4.03    Introduction.  Briefly describe main project history and concept.
4.04    Summary and Conclusion.  Briefly the following should be discussed:
(a) Subproject area: benefitted area, population, land tenure, cropping
patterns, and foodgrain production.
(b) Subproject works: proposed infrastructure.
fc) Benefits: cropping patterns and cropping intensities, production,
land reclamation, access facilities, employment, and environmental
changes.
(d) Estimated cost.
Ce) Economic justification.
(f) Conclusion and Recommendation.
4.05    Compliance with Selection Criteria.  In a tabulated statement
describe conformity or otherwise.
4.06    Existing Conditions and Available Data.  This should include:
(a) Hydrometeorology, i.e climate, rainfall and hydrology.
(b) Flooding, drainage congestion, salinity, irrigation development,
navigation and fisheries.
(c) Infrastructure should cover flood control, irrigation faciliEies,
communication and energy.
(d) Socioeconomic situation should cover population, number of
households, population density, average family size, estimated labour
force, land tenure, and size of holdings.
(e) Agriculture, livestock, and agricultural inputs.
(f) Soils.
(g) Supporting institutions: agricultural extension, cooperatives,
credit, farm input and marketing services, etc.



-11-                            ANNU 
Page 11
4.07    Hydrological Analysis should include:
(a) Meteorological, stream flow, and salinity data.
(b) Depth duration analysis.
(c) Crop water requirements if irrigation development is included.
(d) Design drainage rate.
(e) Flood levels for return periods of 10 and 20 years.
(f) Flood routing for a 10- day design storm through regulators of
varying number of vents to determine the optimum hydraulic capacity
for a minimum submerged area.
(g) From the above analysis, indicate the conclusions arrived at in
respect of design level of embankments, ventage and sill level of
regulators, and drainage canal section.
(h) Tables relevant to paras (a) through (f) above.
4.08   Engineering should include details on:
(a) Land acquisition.
(b) Surveys and investigations.
(c) Embankments.
(d) Regulators and other hydraulic structures.
(e) Access facilities.
(f) Irrigation development.
(g) Navigation.
(h) Plan of cperation for the O&M phase.
(i) Quantities, cost estimates, and outline drawings.
4.09    Environmental Impact
4.10    Investment Schedule and Total Project Cost
4.11    Organization and Management
4.12    Agricultural Development.  Give gross and net areas for depths of
flooding 0 to 0.3 M, 0.3 to 0.9 M, 0.9 to 1.8 M, and over 1.8 N, designated
as Highland, Medium Highland, Medium Lowland and Lowland, respectively.
Also, indicate cropping patterns, input use, yields, and irrigation require-
ment.
4.13    Economic and Financial Analysis should include:
(a) Farm income and employment.
(b) ERR and sensitivity analysis.
(c) Tables as described in paras 3.04 through 3.09 of Proforma Two
relating to:
- Pre-project and post-project economic cost per ha for labor,
animal draft power, seeds, pesticides, fertilizers and irrigation
in respect of the three main rice crops: aus, aman and boro.
- Pre-project and post-project per ha economic returns for main and
by-products in respect of aus, aman and boro rice.
- Pre-project and post-project economic benefits and crop pro-
duction costs for the areas cultivated during the three main
seasons. The table should also include the pre-project and



-12-                            ANNEX 1
Page 12
post-project cropping intensities and the increments in
respect of cropping intensity, economic benefit, grain pro-
duction, and production of other crops.
Pre- and post-project farm budget analysis.
4.14    The methodology described in para 3.10 of Proforma Two should be
adopted for the determination of the ERR.



-13-                          ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Management System (SSFCDI Works)
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.      The project management system to be adopted for the Second  SSFCDI
Project would be be similar to the system operating in the First SSDFC
Project, Cr. 955-BD. The system would comprise a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) staffed by BWDB personnel and assisted by a Canadian Technical Unit
(CTU) and a Design Circle (DC) staffed by BWDB design engineers. Objective,
scope of services, activities, outputs, responsibilities, and staffing
requirements of PIU, CTU, and DC, together with job descriptions, required
experience, and qualifications of senior personnel of CTU, are described
below.
Objective and Scope of Services
2.      The main objective of the project management system is to ensure that
the project would be implemented in accordance with the agreed program,
particularly that selected subprojects would conform to the agreed criteria
and would be constructed to acceptable standards. The management services
would be provided for the implementation of about 15 fully planned and about
200 appurtenant structures subprojects and would include identification of
subprojects, preparation of feasibility reports and detailed engineering
documents, monitoring during construction and preparation of plans of opera-
tion for O&M of the subprojects.
Activities
3.      Identification Phase.  Screening of identification reports for all
subprojects, prepared by BWDB O&M divisions following the format of Proforma
One (Annex 1 of the Supplementary Volume), would include the following:
(a) a field reconnEissance of the subproject to check technical and
socioeconomic data and discuss the proposals with local Government
staff and beneficiaries;



-14-                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b)  study of topographical and hydrological conditions;
(c)  study of suitability of flood control and drainage subprojects for
empoldering and irrigation subprojects for dry season irrigation and
wet season supplementary irrigation (possible effects on adjacent
polders, adequacy of dry season flows, and salinity conditions would
also be studied);
(d) study of existing road and navigation facilities;
(e) study of existing fisheries development;
(f) limitations imposed by ongoing and other proposed development
programs;
(g) preliminary hydrological and flood routing studies to determine that
subproject has adequate basin storage to limit internal water levels;
determination of design levels of embankments, capacity, and numbers
of drainage structures; and assessment of irrigable command area (for
irrigation subprojects only);
(h) preparation of a conceptual plan of development;
(i) preparation of preliminary designs, sketch plans, and cost estimates;
(j) assessment of completed and ongoing works under the FFW program and
preparation of preliminary proposals for additional works;
(k) assessment of present land use and landholdings;
(g) assessment of the likely benefits accruing to the subproject under
improved conditions;
(i) collection of relevant technical and socio-economic data for the
preparation of the plan of operation tor the O&M phase of the sub-
project; and
(n) the preparation of a screening report on the group of subprojects to
be presented for discussion at the five-party review meeting to be
held in September of each year;
4.      Feasibility Phase.  Based on field visits and the identification
reports, the following activities would be undertaken for the fully planned
subprojects (see Proforma Three of Annex 1 of the Supplementary Volume):
(a) comprehensive study of all technical alternatives (including sub-
project boundaries) and a detailed review of all relevant factors
in order to maximize benefits and to support Government's decision to
implement the subproject;



-15-                            ANNEX 2
Page 3
(b)  comprehensive review of the risks involved, including: siltation,
salinity, adverse consequences inside the polder and/or on neighbor-
ing areas, projects or rivers, and recommendation of necessary
remedial measures;
(c) assessment of the potential for irrigation in the subproject area on
the basis of availability of surface and groundwater and suitability
of the soils for cultivation of irrigated crops; tidal effects should
also be considered, where applicable;
(d) assessment of any significant adverse effects of the proposed works
on fishing, navigation, etc.;
(e) spot checks of the subprojects' critical features (elevation of beels
and spill channels; capacity of the outfall channels) and identifica-
tion in the field of any possible problems, for example, concerning
land acquisition, together with proposed solutions;
(f) study of the consequences -- positive or otherwise -- of reduction of
flood depths for different parts of the subproject area, in relation
to elevation and traditional cropping patterns; proposed remedial
measures, as appropriate;
(g) preparation of an inventory of working irrigation equipment in the
subproject area and of the areas and crops serviced by the irrigation
facilities, together with proposals for increased irrigation;
(h) identification of constraints affecting the subproject, together with
proposed remedial measures; the project works should not cause sig-
nificant adverse effects on fishing or river transportation;
(i) hydrological analysis, determination of design levels and drainage
capacities, and preparation of feasibility level designs, plans and
cost estimates;
(j) study of existing agricultural situation, including pre-project crop
areas, inputs, yields and production, and recommendations for
post-project cropping pattern and use of inputs; estimation of future
yields and production, relating increases to use of improved crop
varieties, fertilizers, pesticides, etc. and to changes in crop,
animal and fish husbandry practices, water supply and drainage;
(k) economic evaluation of alternative proposals for development of the
subproject area;
(1) a study of the institutions providing support services, including
agricultural extension, cooperatives, credit, and farm input and
marketing services;
(m) examination of the land tenure situation and assesment of the
farmers' willingness to adopt changes in cropping practices and to
share in the cost of operating and maintaining project facilities;



-16-                            ANNEX 2
Page 4
(n) examination of condition and operational features of existing flood
control, drainage, and irrigation facilities in the subproject area
(the examination of the plan of operation should include present
responsibilities of GOB and beneficiaries, budgets, staff resources,
and water charges levied by GOB and/or beneficiary group leaders);
and
(o) preparation of a programme for engineering surveys and geotechnical
investigations needed for the preparation of detailed engineering
documents.
5.      The identification reports for appurtenant structures subprojects
(see Proforma Two, Annex 1 of the Supplementary Volume) would provide ade-
quate data for the activities listed below. However, further field visits
may be required for major appurtenant structures subprojects. Feasibility
reports are not required for repair and rehabilitation works. The following
subjects would be covered:
(a) engineering analysis, preparation of designs and outline drawings for
the structures, and design levels and profiles for embankments and
drainage canals to be constructed under F'W;
(b) preparation of cost estimates for civil works to be financed under
the project and FFW;
(c) agricultural and economic studies similar to those described under
paras 4 (j) and (k), respectively;
(d) preparation of a programme for engineering surveys and geotechnical
investigations for structures, embankments and drainage canals; and
(e) preparation of a plan of operation for the subproject.
6.      Detailed Engineering Phase.  Activities for all subprojects, approved
for implementation, would include:
(a) preparation of work specifications, quantities, and cost estimates
for topographical surveys and geotechnical investigations;
(b) checking and finalizing of embankment alignments, location of
hydraulic structures, access roads and bridges, and drainage network;
(c) carrying out of detailed designs for the works listed under (b)
above, preparation of detailed drawings suitable for construction,
preparation of bills of quantities, cost estimates, and specifica-
tions;
(d)  preparation of a detailed engineering report for works to be done
under FFW to a standard acceptable to the Flood Control Cell of BWDB
and WFP; and



-17-                            ANNEX 2
Page 5
(e) preparation of a draft plan of operation, which would be updated
during project implementation and included in the O&M manual to be
prepared by BWDB O&M divisions.
7.      Construction Phase.  The activities related to monitoring of physical
and financial progress for all subprojects would include:
(a)  preparation of work programs in consultation with BWDB O&M divisions
and based on decisions taken at the five-party review meeting of May
each year;
(b)  preparation of a construction manual;
(c)  regular field visits to work sites to ensure that works are executed
to specifications and design and are progressing according to the
agreed programs; specific activities would include:
i) preparation of detailed construction schedules, together with
estimates on funding requirements for each subproject;
(ii) ensuring that foundation excavation is done according to excava-
tion plans, concrete aggregates at site are of acceptable stand-
ards, adequate numbers of dewatering equipment and concrete
mixers are available at site and are in good working condition,
formwork is of good quality and fixed to lines in the approved
plans, preparation and tying of reinforcements conform to the bar
schedule and approved plans, finished concrete is adequately
cured, and gates and control arrangements are installed according
to specifications;
(iii) ensuring that embaakment fill is placed to design profile and
that construction methods conform to standards laid down in the
construction manual, with emphasis placed on adequate compaction
utilizing local resources, viz. labour and tools;
(iv) monitoring of disbursements at field divisions and BWDB HQ;
(v) reviewing with executive engineers and other BWDB field staff all
relevant findings of field visits, including, for example, sug-
gestions for improvements of construction quality and for speed-
ing up disbursements;
(vi) preparation of concise monthly and detailed quarterly progress
reports; and
(vii) attending review meeting with the Ministry, BWDB management, IDA,
CIDA and WFP.
8.      Operation and Maintenance.  The activities described in the plan of
operation would be followed for all subproject works during the implementa-
tion phase (see guidelines given in paras 4.12 through 4.14 of the Main
Volume). Specifically, services during the O&M phase of project implementa-
tion would include:



-18-                            ANNEX 2
Page 6
(a) preparation of work programs for all completed structures, sections
of embankments and drainage canals;
(b)  monitoring to ensure that required standards are maintairtd;
(c) discussions with BWDB field staff, local Government staff, and
beneficiaries to finalize arrangements for an appropriate system of
operation after completion of the project implementation period; and
(d)  assistance to BIDB executive engineers in finalizing the OM manual.
Outputs
9.      The outputs of the project management system have been estimated on
the basis of requirements of the six appraised fully planned subprojects and
53 appurtenant structures subprojects identified prior to appraisal and on
projections for the remaining nine fully planned and 147 appurtenant struc-
tures subprojects. The outputs comprise:
Fully Planned Subprojects (Gross Benefitted Area: 50,000 ha)
(a) identification of about 20 subprojects;
(b) feasibility reports for 15 subprojects (in addition to the six
appraised subprojects);
(c) detailed designs and plans for about 225 km of embankment, 250 km of
drainage canals, 42 major drainage regulators, 24 flushing sluices,
six water-retaining structures, and 215 minor structures such as pipe
drainage outlets, irrigation outlets, check structures, etc.;
Appurtenant Structures Subprojects (Gross Benefitted Area: 200,000 ha)
(d) about 200 identification and feasibility reports;
(e) detailed planning of the protected area and detailed design of the
drainage canals and embankments to be taken up under FFW (based on
estimates for the fully planned subprojects and assuming that 50% of
the earthworks under FFW have been completed, excavation of about
1,500 km of drainage canals and resectioning of about 1,350 km of
embankments would be required);
(f) detailed designs and plans for about 145 major structures, 18 flush-
ing sluices, 21 water-retaining structures, and 360 minor structures;
All Subprojects
(g) screening reports for presentation at review meetings and preparation
of minutes of meetings;
(h) monthly and quarterly reports on financial and physical progress;



-19-
ANNEX 2
Page 7
(i) Zonstruction manual (before June 30, 1988);
(j) annual work programs;
(k) reports on field visits; and
(1) completion report for each subproject.
Responsibilities
10.     Assignment of responsibilities for various activities would be as
follows:
Description of Services                               Responsibility
Coordination of project activities                           PIU
Disbursement of project funds                                PIU
Assistance in preparation of identification
reports for all subprojects                               CTU
Preparation of screening reports and minutes of          PIU with CTU
review meeting                                          Assistance
Inclusion of subprojects not fully conforming to
agreed selection criteria                            HOI and IDA
Preparation of feasibility reports for all
subprojects                                                CTU
Preparation of project proforma for fully
planned subprojects                                        PIU
Detailed designs for fully planned subprojects               CTU
Detailed designs for appurtenant structures                  DC
subprojects, except repair and rehabilitation
works
Detailed designs for repair and rehabilitation               CTU
subprojects
Approval of detailed designs and plans                  CZ Designs
Preparation of work programs                        PIU in Consultation
with BWDI OUW
Divisions
Preparation of bill of quantities, estimates,       BSDB 01W Divisions
and tender documents



-20-
ANNEX 2
Page 8
Description of Services                                Responsibility
Call of tenders and award                             BWDB O&M Divisicas
and BWDB Competent
Authority Respectively
Monitoring of physical and financial progress            PIU and CTU
Certification of reimbursement applications                  CTU
Submission of reimbursement applications to IDA              PIU
Preparation of construction manual                           CTU
Preparation of plan of operation for all subprojects         CTU
Finalization of O&M manual                              BWDB Executive
Engineers
Preparation of monthly and quarterly progress reports        CTU
Staffing Requirements
11.     Requirements of staff for the implementation of 15 fully planned
subprojects and 200 major structures for 200 appurtenant structures sub-
projects have been based on an activity study conducted by BWDB and consult-
ants of the First SSDFC Poject. Subsequent appraisal estimates show a marked
increase in the number of structures to be built in the appurtenant struc-
tures subprojects (720 as against 200). However, in as much as about 500 of
these structures are classified as minor and would be constructed following
BWDB type-plans, a reassessment of manmonth requirements is not necessary at
this time. The staffing schedule agreed at negotiations is given in Table 1.
12.     Job Descriptions, Required Experience, and Qualifications of Senior
Personnel of CTU are given below.
(a) The Canadian Team Leader should possess as a minimum a degree in
civil engineering. He should have over 15 years experience in water
development projects (of which preferably at least five years were in
Bangladesh) and substantial experience as a manager of projects
embracing all stages of identification, planning, investigations,
detailed engineering designs (using a technology suited to Bangladesh
conditions), procurement of civil works and equipment, and prepara-
tion of O&M plans. He would have the following responsibilities:
(i) oversee the work of all staff, including overall planning of
activities and nanagement of the team (in this capacity, he would
be the chief responsible officer, he would monitor and control
the activities of the CTU and he would ensure that the CTU func-
tions in a fully professional manner);



-21-
ANNEX 2
Page 9
(ii) establish detailed work plans, including programs and input
requirements at all stages from screening and appraisal to con-
struction and on-farm development;
tiii) subcontract for local specialist services, and select, hire, and
supervise local staff, including engineers, technicians,
draftsmen, secretarial and clerical personnel, drivers, and
laborers;
(iv) advise BWDB on the use of IDA Credit funds allocated for the
procurement of construction equipment, materials and supplies;
his tasks would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
- advise on calling of tenders and awarding of contracts for
construction of water control structures;
- assist Government officials concerned with timely and orderly
delivery of goods to subproject sites;
-  assist with accounting for all funds provided by IDA and CIDA
for procurement of equipment, materials, supplies, and labor
in accordance with the terms of the IDA Credit agreement and
the CIDA Grant agreement;
(v) for IDA, prepare monthly and quarterly technical progress
reports; for CIDA, prepare inception, monthly prugress and other
reports, as required, including a project completion report;
assist with and advise on the preparation of technical and
evaluation reports;
(vi) verify the Quarterly Financial Reports prepared by the PIU and
submit observations, as required;
(vii) coordinate, integrate, and monitor all specialist inputs;
(viii) liaise directly with BWDB, IDA and CIDA as required; in this
regard, he would keep all parties informed of any problems and
recommend solutions;
(ix) assist and advise on planning and execution of the transfer-of-
knowledge program;
(x) monitor procedures, progress, prublems and plans concerning other
water resource development activities and advise the Project
Director on those which may impact on the project;
(xi) advise on all aspects of construction management, including
assistance to establish procedures for effective monitoring of
earthwork constructions in WFP-assisted subprojects;



-22-
ANNEX 2
Page 10
(xii) ensure that BWDB's requirements for technical support and
guidance are fully met, within budget limitations, by the con-
sultant's team;
(xiii) prepare an annual program for field inspection for the Implemen-
tation Unit, including BWDB and consultants staff; and
(xiv) initiate a program for organizing meetings with local bodies and
public representatives for operation and maintenance of completed
schemes.
(b) The Canadian Civil/Construction Engineer should possess as a minimum
a degree in civil engineering with over 15 years experience, of which
at least ten years should be in the construction of civil works in
water resources projects, preferably under conditions similar to
those in Bangladesh. Under the direction of the Team Leader, he
would have the following responsibilities:
fi) coordinate construction monitoring activities and related report-
ing, organize and introduce operation and maintenance programs,
coordinate the Fibre Reinforced Plastic Program under the CIDA
supported research program; and assist PIU with developing and
monitoring of a management reporting system;
(ii) prepare the construction manual;
(iii) participate in planning the construction program;
(iv) coordinate all construction monitoring activities with BWDB field
engineers and PIU;
(v) provide expertise on construction methods, quality control,
scheduling, and management;
(vi) develop and maintain standard construction progress and quality
control formats;
(vii) supervise the collection and reporting of construction informa-
tion (field trip reports);
(viii) oversee an expanded material testing program for sand bricks and
concrete;
(ix) make recommendations for modification of structures or construc-
tion methodology, as required;
(x) visit construction sites, specifically those with special con-
struction problems and recommend solutions to observed problems;
(xi) participate in the transfer-of-knowledge program;
(xii) coordinate all reporting activities;



-23-                            ANNEX 2
Page 11
(xiii) for the purpose of documenting construction records, develop
standard office procedures for the compilation and storage of all
photographs, maps, engineering drawings, reports, books and
office correspondence;
(xiv) review, assist, and advise, as required, on:
-  work authorizations,
-  estimates,
-  indents,
-  tender documents and comparative statements,
-  work orders;
(xv) prepare drafts of various sections of the quarterly and monthly
reports, including progress, construction monitoring, special
problems, etc., as required;
(xvi) supervise and instruct staff in computer applications for con-
struction monitoring;
(xvii) prepare projections of divisional fund requirements and monitor
fund flow from donors to field divisions;
(xviii) assist and guide preparation of cost studies for alternative
designs and construction methods to establish improved solutions;
and
(xix) assist in the preparation of operation and maintenance procedures
and manuals.
(c)  The Canadian Planning Engineer should possess as a minimum a degree
in c.vil engineering with ten years experience in water resources
planning of projects preferably under similar hydrological and
topographical conditions as those existing in Bangladesh. Under the
direction of the Team Leader, he would:
(i) review all previous studies and relevant technical data on
irrigation, drainage and flooding;
(ii) study the management and regulation of small drainage catchments
so as to mitigate flooding in the lower areas;
(iii) examine the availability of water in the rivers for multiple
cropping in each subproject;
(iv) assess the primary drainage needs and establisih drainage design
criteria for control structures;
(v) examine the inundation levels, frequency and extent of damages
within the subproject area,9 and review the adequacy of main
drainage facilities;



-24-                            ANNEX 2
Page 12
(vi) study historic floodings, including their frequencies, and review
the adequacy of flood control measures;
(vii) determine water supply availability (both surface and
groundwater) for irrigation, study the soils and topography of
the area to be commanded, and review existing and proposed crop-
ping patterns;
(viii) prepare layouts of irrigation and drainage facilities for a
quantitative estimate;
(ix) prepare construction schedules with due attention to
labor-intensive methods;
(x) explore the engineering aspects of alternative proposals for
development, such as heights and alignments of embankments and
various types of irrigation systems, taking into account
benefits, investment costs, operation and maintenance require-
ments, land acquisition, and institutional arrangements involved;
(xi) review and finalize, together with the design engineers, the
location for installation of major water control structures in
each subproject area;
(xii) develop feasibility-level engineering designs and quantity cal-
culations of sluices, irrigation and drainage systems, including
access roads, together with detailed sample layouts of on-farm
facilities taking into account right-of-way, construction
methods, and arrangements for implementation;
(xiii) prepare cost estimates of the subproject works, including opera-
tion and maintenance, with a breakdown of foreign exchange and
local currency components;
(xiv) prepare construction and disbursement schedules, together with
detailed implementation plans for the proposed subproject; and
estimate manpower requirements for implementation, operation, and
maintenance.
(d)  The Canadian Design Engineer should possess as a minimum a degree in
civil engineering with at least ten years experience in detailed
engineering designs, preparation of tender documents and assessment
of equipment, materials, and manpower requirements. Experience
gaintd under conditions similar to those in Bangladesh would be
preferred. Under the direction of the Team Leader, he would:
(i) check and finalize locations of hydraulic structures, pump sta-
tions, etc.;
(ii) prepare layouts of embankments, hydraulic structures, etc.;



-25-
ANNEX 2
Page 13
(iii) establish the civil engineering criteria with due attention to
appropriate technology, taking into account prevailing conditions
in Bangladesh;
(iv) prepare detailed drawings of each structure, including bar
schedules (regulators, flushing sluices, check structures,
bridges, etc.);
(v) prepare detailed engineering reports including:
- technical justification;
- recommendations for complementary surveys if needed; and
- review of potential improvement of irrigation facilities; and
(vi) prepare bills of quantiti3s, schedules of rates, cost estimates
and contract specifications.
(e) Responsibilities and duties of local professional staff would be
worked out in detail by the Canadian Team Leader in close consult-
ation with the Bangladeshi Senior Water Resources Engineer. Required
qualifications and experience of the local professionals are listed
below.
(i) The Senior Water Resources Engineer would be a civil/irrigation
engineer with a degree in civil engineering from a recognized
university and with over 20 years experience in the field of
irrigation engineering. He would have experience in the manage-
ment of a multi-disciplinary team responsible for working on
investigation and planning of drainage, flood control and irriga-
tion projects. In addition, he should be fully conversant with
the operation and maintenance aspects of completed projects.
(ii) The Planning Engineer would be a civil engineer with a degree in
civil engineering, preferably with a Master's degree in water
resources. He would have over 15 years experience in the inves-
tigation and planning of drainage, flood control, and irrigation
schemes.
(iii) The Design Engineer would be a civil engineer with a degree in
civil engineering. He would have over 15 years experience ini-
tially in the construction field and over 10 years at the designs
office with responsibility for detailed engineering investiga-
tions, preparation of designs, specifications, tender documents,
and evaluation of bids.
(iv) The Agro-Economist would possess a degree in agricultural
economics and would have over 10 years experience in this field
of which a minimum of three years were spent as the lead member
in economics in a multi-disciplinary team conducting feasibility
studies in the agricultural sector, preferably in drainage, flood
control, and irrigation projects.



-26-
ANNEX 2
Page 14
(v) The Agronowiist would possess a degree in agriculture, specializ-
ing in irrigated agriculture. He would have a minimum of 15
years experience, of which at least two years were spent in
conducting feasibility studies of agricultural projects.
(vi) The Project Engineer would possess a degree in civil engineering
with over 15 years experience in civil engineering works in water
development projects.



1  27-                             ANNEX 2
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Staffing Schedule
(Man Months)
CTU
Design
PIU          Circle         Local          Expatriate
Project Director                   60
Executive Engineer                120
Assistant Engineer                240
Accounts Officer                   60
Junior Economist                   60
Agronomist                         60
Technical Officer                 120
Superintending Engineer                           60
Executive Engineer                               180
kssistant Engineer                               514
Team Leader                                                                     60
Civil/Construction Engineer                                                     48
Planning Engineer                                                               38
Design Engineer                                                                 46
Planning/Design Engineer                                                        40
Short Term Specialists
(a) Training                                                                  13
(b) Computer                                                                   8
(c) Home Office Supervisor                                                     6
(d) Fibre Glass Technician                                                     9
Planning Engineer                                                98
Senior Project Engineer                                        480
Project Engineer                                                155
Design Engineer                                                 134
Assistant Design Engineer                                       122
O&M Specialist                                                   30
Technical Assistant                                             400
Environmental Specialist                                          6
Economist                                                        30
Agronomist                                                       42
Fisheries Specialist                                             24
Sociologist                                                      14
Training Specialist                                             162
Total                     720            754         1,697            268



-28-                        ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Consultancy Services during Implementation (FRW)
Terms of Reference
Background
1.      Flooding is a normal feature in Bangladesh's life and is caused by
snowmelt in the upper catchment areas of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers
and by monsoon rainfall in the lower catchments. Snowmelt reaches a peak in
June resulting in heavy runoff in July and August. About 80% of the annual
rainfall, ranging from 125 cm in the southwest of Bangladesh to more than 500
cm in the northeast, occurs in the five-month period, May through September.
There are, however, very large variations in annual rainfall. In years of
heavy flooding, major crop losses and damage to infrastucture occur.
2.      A major flood disaster took place in July-September 1987 and the
reported damages appear to exceed those experienced for at least the last 25
years. Over 50,000 sq km are reported to have been inundated affecting a
population of over 30 million and causing damage to crop, property, livestock
and infrastructure, estimated at about US$550 million. The 1987 floods were
caused by a combination of unusually heavy rainfall from July through Septem-
ber and the simultaneous rise in water levels in the rivers due to upper
catchment flows. Rainfall d'iring August was reportedly two times above
normal in most locations. According to the Ministry of Relief and
Rehabilitation no less than 1,200 km of BWDB's flood embankments, 640 water
control structures, 220 km irrigation canals and 40 km of town protection
works were fully or partially destroyed. Damages to roads, bridges, cul-
verts, and school buildings also reached unprecedented levels.
3.      In response to a GOB request for assistance in financing the
rehabilitation works, IDA would support two complementary programs: (a) a
freestanding credit which would finance priority works during the FY88 con-
struction season; and (b) inclusion of a component in the proposed Second
Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project to ensure con-
tinuation and completion over about three years of the rehabilitation
activities. Both programs would include technical assistance components for
providing consultancy services during implementation.



-29-                        ANNEX 3
Page 2
Sope_of Consultancy
4.      Consultants would be required to work with BWDB to:  (a) assess the
damages; and (b) assist in the implementation of the rehabilitation works.
BWDB proposed to award the work to three local consultancy firms experienced
in water resources development. The three consultancy firms would, under
separate agreements, be responsible for work in the three zones: (a) North
Western, (b) North Eastern, and (c) South Eastern. In view of the need to
complete the assessment as early as possible, GOB and IDA have agreed to the
selection of consultants on the basis of sole source. In addition, BWDB
would recruit internationally a civil engineer and a river training
specialist to work directly with the Chief Engineer, Monitoring and Evalua-
tion.
Assessment of Damages
5.      Each local consultancy firm would mobilize within three days of award
a team comprising a team leader, two mid-level engineers, two junior
engineers and six sub-assistant engineers. After a briefing by the Chief
Engineer, Monitoring and Evaluation, the teams would conduct detailed field
visits of the damaged infrastructure sites. The briefing would generally
follow the guidelines des':ribed in para 6. BWDB would also supply the con-
sultants with the most current report on damages. After completion of the
field visits the teams would within ten days, prepare interim assessment
reports and to be followed by the preparation of the final assessment report
which would be included in the inception reports.
6.      Preparation of the assessment reports would be based on the following
activities:
(i) detailed discussions would be held with the Zonal Chief Engineers,
Circle Superintending Engineers and staff of the BWDB field divi-
sions;
(ii) all reports prepared by the field divisions would be reviewed;
(iii) the consultants' junior professionals, together with BWDB field staff
would visit all the damaged infrastructure, whilst the senior profes-
sionals would conduct field checks of about 30% of the damaged
infrastructure; cost of repair works so as to restore works at least
to their original condition would be determined as accurately as
possible; consultants would collect BWDB's estimates at field level
and check those by field measurements either by tape or other sound
engineering methods;
(iv) findings would be discussed with the Chief Engineers, Superintending
Engineers and Executive Engineers before the interim assessment
report would be finalized; the report would primarily be a verifica-
tion of damage reported by BWDB field divisions and would include a



-30-                        ANNEK 3
Page 3
program of work to be undertaken in the first year's construction
program (FY88); and
(v) further investigations and studies would be conducted, as necessary,
to reassess proposals prepared by BWDB on: (a) appropriateness of the
proposals; (b) cost; and (c) feasibility, and would follow the
guidelines listed in para 7.
7.      During the assessment phase the consultant would pay particular
attention to the damaged flood protection embankments including:
(i) the reason for cutting of embankments by the public, where relevant,
and recommend preventive measures, such as providing control struc-
tures, pavement of the embankments, etc.;
(ii) cause of breaching, viz., overtopping, piping or erosion and recom-
mended preventive measures such as protection works, redesign of
profile, etc.;
(iii) land acquisition constraints for retirement works;
(iv) the need for additional drainage and flushing regulators to resolve
problems of localized drainage congestion and irrigation needs;
(v) proposed protective measures and suggested alternatives where
appropriate; and
(vi) need for repair or replacement of hydraulic structures.
Design and Construction Monitoring
8.      The local consultancy firms selected for the assessment study wout4
also be retained for the design and construction monitoring phase. An "
advisory team, comprising two internationally recruited consultants, would be
engaged and would perform the functions described in para 10.
*11
9.      The local consultants would work with BWDB and, with approval of T
BWDB's designated officer(s), assist in the implementation of the Flood
Rehabilitation Works. Consultants' staff requirements are described in para
11.  Specificallly, the consultants would be responsible for:                 t
.M
(i) checking designs, plans and estimates for restoration work of irriga-
tion, drainage, flood control and town protection structures prepared
by the field divisions after the 1987 floods; this would include
conducting field checks; depending on the complexity of the requiied
restoration va-ks, the consultants would be responsible for redesign#
preparation of plans and cost estimating;



-31-                        ANNE  3
Page 4
(ii) establishing, together with BEDB, P list of works - completed, under-
way or planned - conform to the sriection criteria agreed between GOB
and IDA and preparing a plan for che completion of these works before
the end of June 1990;
(iii) preparing specifications and tender documents for all works, assist-
ing in the subsequent evaluation of bids, and ensuring that tendering
and other procurement procedures are consistent with the Development
Credit Agreement and the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and Credits";
(iv) assisting in construction supervision and quality control;
(v) checking progress bills of contractors when required;
(vi) monitoring the preparation of claims for reimbursement by IDA,
estimating backlogs and assisting in clearing backlogs;
(vii) quarterly reporting on physical and financial progress of the works;
and
(viii) preparing a project completion report in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
The extent of the local consultants' responsibility for items (i) through (v)
would be based on the complexity of each individual sub-project and the
estimated cost of restoration. Details are given in paragraph 12 below.
Advisory Team
10.     The advisory team, comprising the internationally recruited civil
4ngineer and the river training specialist, would assist the Chief Engineer,
Monitoring and Evaluation, and the Director in charge of the Project
Implementation Unit to ensure effective performance of the three consultancy
firms in all technical aspects and in monitoring of the project's physical
and financial progress. The civil engineering advisor would also ensure the
effectiveness of the reporting system. The river training specialist would
give advise and guidance to BWDB engineers and consultants in the design and
ipplementation of protective works to arrest erosion of the river banks and
embankment slopes. He would also assist BWDB in monitoring progress of the
modelling study of the Brahmaputra river.
staffing
14.     Each Zone would require the fo'lowing local consultants' specialists
and sub-professional staff:



-32-                       ANNEX 3
Page 5
(i) one senior civil engineer specialized in the construction of
hydraulic structures for drainage, flood control, irrigation and town
protection works; he would lead the team and be based in Dhaka;
(ii) two mid-level construction engineers similarly qualified as the team
leader but with about ten years experience; they would be stationed
at the respective Zones to direct operations; with the assistance of
junior engineers and sub-assistance engineers (see beLow) who would
be based at the Zones, the mid-level engineers would be responsible
for the activities described in paragraph 9, items (i) through (v);
(iii) two junior construction engineers with degrees in civil engineering
and a minimum of five years experience in the construction of
hydraulic structures;
(iv) six sub-assistant engineers with a diploma of sivil engineering and
a minimum of three years experience in the construction of hydraulic
structures; and
(v) two draughtsmen and appropriate administrative and accounting support
staff at the office of the team leader in Dhaka and the Zonal
offices.
12.      To determine the degree of responsibility of the consultants,
project works would be classified as follows:
(i) works costing less than Tk 1.5 million (US$50,000);
(ii) works costing between Tk 1.5 million (US$50,000) and Tk 10.0 million
(US$300,000);
(iii) works costing over Tk 10.0 million (US$300,000); and
(iv) works of a complex nature such as major regulators, major protective
measures at hydraulic structures, construction of groynes, spurs,
closures, and revetments to protect against erosion of river or
ocean-side banks, and all other town protection works.
13.      For works in category (i), consultants would be responsible for:
(a) limited supervision during construction; (b) preparation of a simple
completion report containing appropriate data and costs; and (c) the physical
inspection and certification as satisfactory of the completed works. For
works in categories (ii) and (iv), consultants would be responsible for:
(a) field checking of engineering surveys; (b) assessing the adequacy of
engineering proposals; (c) reviewing the detailed designs, estimates and
tender documents; (d) supervision of construction; and (e) preparation of a



ANNEX 3
Page 6
completion report. For works in category (iii), consultants would in addi-
tion be responsible for the design of the works and for preparation of plans,
estimates and a program for implementation. In the case of works costing
over Tk 15 milLion and all town protection works, the consultants would be
responsible for preparing the description of the works (supported by
appropriate data and plans) required to support a request to IDA by BWDB for
financing approval.
14.     The consultants would pay particular attention to:
Idratulic Structures
(a) excavation of foundations;
(b) piling or sinking;
(c) fixing of forms and reinforcements; and
(d) quality control in concreting.
Retirements- Closures and Repairs to Breaches
(a) selection of borrow areas;
(b) stripping of borrow areas and embankment base; and
(c) compaction.
15.      For construction supervision consultants would ensure that suitable
construction procedures and inspection standards are established and fol-
lowed.
16. Rehabilitation work would commence in early 1988. Critical works would
be completed by June 1988 and the remaining works by June 1990. The consult-
ant teams would work for the full implementation period, with the exception
of one mid-level construction engineer, and the junior and sub-assistant
engineers responsible for assistance in and monitoring of construction. They
would work during the period December through July of each year. Each con-
sultant firm would provide the following:
CateOry                                Man-Months
(i) Team Leader (local specialist)             36
(ii) Mid-Level Engineers - 2                     72
(iii) Junior Engineers - 2                        72
(iv) Sub-Assistant Engineers - 6               216
(v) Draughtsmen - 2; Surveyor - 1             108
Total                                 504



ANNEX 3
Page 7
17.     The internationally recruited civil engineer would commence work in
January 1988 for a period of 30 months. The river training expert would be
required for 9 months in two terms of 4 and 5 months each.
18.     BWDB would provide the consultants with the following support:
(i) office accommodation for the consultants' field teams;
(ii) all records and reports on the damage to BWDB infrastructure
during the 1987 floods; and
(iii) details of existing procedures for construction supervision,
design manuals, standard specifications and proforma tender
documents.
19.     The consultants would be responsible for:
Si) supply and O&M of vehicles used for transport of consultant
personnel in Dhaka and the field;
(ii) office and drawing equipment;                                 I
(iii) office accommodation at Dhaka; and
(iv) stationery, printing, etc..
20.     The consultants would be responsible for the submission of:
(i) the interim assessment report (20 copies) on damages within%
ten days of issuance of the letter by BWDB to commence worki
(ii) the inception report including the final assessment report
within two months of formal award of contract;
iii) a concise monthly report that, inter alia, would update the
list of approved works;
(iv) a quarterly report on physical and financial progress;
(v) completion reports for all subprojects; and
(vi) a Project Completion Report prepared together with BWDB in
accordance with IDA guidelines.



-35-                     ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Mathematical Modelling Studies of River Sections Protected
by the Brahmaputra Right Embankment (FRW)
Guidelines for Preparation of Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.      The Brahmaputra is a braided river, without fixed banks and with
frequently shifting channels. The river originates from the northern slopes
of the Himalaya range in Tibet, and has a total length of approximately 2,700
km. The average ye arly discharge is 20,000 mJ/s; the maximum recorded dis-
charge is 91,000 m at Bahadurabad. The sediment transport amounts to 600
million tons per year. In Bangladesh the total river width varies between 6
and 15 km. During low flow stages, from November till April, the flow is
confined in a number of channels. The number of channels varies between one
and six. Channels shift frequently and the situation in one year may be
completely different from the next year. Shifting river channels erode the
riverbanks from time to time.
2.      The irahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) was constructed between 1963
and 1970 over a length of about 170 km along the right bank of the
Brahmaputra river to protect adjoining lands against yearly floods, occurring
between June and October. The BRE has been constructed at some distance from
the western bank of the Brahmaputra, in order to have a buffer zone which
would delay the erosion of the embankments in case of channel shifts.
3.      Ideally the BRE should only be subject to loadings resulting from
differential water levels on both sides, and from moderate current velocities
occurring in the flood plain of the Brahmaputra during high river stages. If
an outflanking channel of the Brahmaputra is eroding the riverbank and is
encroaching upon the embankment, thus reducing the width of the buffer zone,
it will eventually erode the embankment as well. In that case additional
(retired) embankments have to be made, whereby the existing embankment and
the previous buffer zone between embankment and river channel is abandoned.
Numerous sections of retired embankment have been made so far.



-36-                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.      The Brahmaputra seems to have a general tendency to shift westward.
This westward trend is more pronounced in certain reaches and possibly absent
in others. In the past, substantial areas of land have been (or had to be)
"sacrificed" to the Brahmaputra. This practice was largely based on economic
considerations. The cost of river works, able to arrest the movement of the
Brahmaputra, would by far exceed the value of the lands saved from the ero-
sion. Moreover new land emerges elsewhere in case of a river or channel
shift. Not everywhere the river was allowed to erode the buffer zone and/or
embankments. Near the town of Sirajganj, for instance, substantial bank
protection works were carried out. A groyne was also constructed north of
Sirajganj in order to deflect the flow of the main channel of the Brahmaputra
away from the western bank.
5.      At many locations retired embankments have been constructed to a
total length of some 100 km over the past 20 years. Erosion is causing
serious problems at the ferry crossings, where terminals have to be shifted
as a result of eroding river banks. To resolve these problems, investiga-
tions are presently undertaken by the BWDB and the River Research Institute
(RRI), which include field measurements and model testing. However, the
investigations have no bearing on a development plan for the whole river.
6.      Other river studies are being carried out in relation with the Jamuna
Bridge Project. Although these studies are mostly limited to the area close
to the bridge, some aspects definitely are useful for the envisaged BRE
studies, but need to be extended. The practice of abandoning the buffer zone
and original embankments may however not be acceptable in the future because:
(a) important population areas (among others a district capital and a
number of upazilla headquarters); and
(b) essential infrastructural works, among which a number of paved feeder
roads, will in the near future be threatened by progressing river
erosion. Apart from the "plain" economic value thereof, the social
problems related to the uprooting/displacement of the population are
substantial and cannot be valued in simple economic terms.
7.      The damages to agriculture, infrastructure, buildings and houses,
together with the cost of repairs and construction of retired embankments,
have become unacceptably high. Therefore a thorough study is required to
analyze the feasibility of a rigorous approach towards protection of the BRE
with adequate and durable river works. The cost and implications of such an
approach should be compared with the present situation and practices.
8.      Against the sketched background, GOB is planning to commission a
study which should provide recommendations for:
(a) improved performance of the BRE as flood (protection) embankment; and
(b) permanent protection of the BBE against river erosion.



-37-                        ANNEX 4
Page  3
Scope of Study
9.      General recommendations for improved performance oi the BRE and
permanent measures against river erosion can only be given after the
behaviour of the Brahmaputra, its individual channels and features of the
flood plain are thoroughly studied and understood. To this end the consult-
ant has to gain sufficient insight in the following aspects/phenomena:
(a) characteristics and behaviour of the river channels and channel
patterns;
(b) geomorphological and geophysical aspects of the Brahmaputra flood
plain;
(c) medium and long term changes that can be expected in the general
course and characteristics of the river, of its channels and channel
patterns;
(d) effects of river works, bank protection and embankments, which have
been constructed in the past, on the behaviour of the river;
(e) causes of past breaches of the BRE;
(f) effects of future river training schemes/works on the river
morphology and hydrology; and
(g) agricultural practices, land use, present infrastructure and the
damages that would occur if the BRE would not function adequately.
10.     Having studied the above aspects/phenomena, the consultant shall
propose and/or work out;
(a) possible measures for an improved performance of the existing BRE,
and their technical and economic feasibility;
(b) river training schemes suitable for the permanent protection of the
BRE, including Lhe effects to be expected on the environment; opera-
tion and maintenance aspects shall be taken into considerations as
well;
(c) an implementation schedule for physical/other measures proposed under
(b) above; the schedule shall be flexible and shall allow for the
phased implementation of permanent river works.
11.     In support of the above, the consultant shall carry out hydrographic
and topographic surveys and shall employ mathematical and physical models
insofar as necessary and practical to support the river studies and designs.
12.     Key Data and Conditions for Present River Study.  The consultant
shall become familiar with past studies carried out in relation with the
Brahmaputra. The consultant shall in particular become familiar with, e.g.,
study, hydrological, geo- and river-morphological and hydraulic aspects of
the Brahmaputra, its tributaries and distributaries including:



-38-                       ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a) river discharge and water levels;
(b) rainfall and drainage patterns of adjacent areas;
(c) wind-developed phenomena, such as wind waves;
(d) sediment transports and bed forms (including variations during
hydrological cycles);
(e) characteristics of individual channels, channel patterns, formation
and movement of river bends, bifurcations and confluences and related
siltation and scour processes;
(f) historical changes of the river and of river channels and prognoses
for future developments, using aerial photographs and satelite
imageries;
(g) geotechnical conditions along the Brahmaputra, including seismicity;
(h) geomorphological and geological aspects of the Brahmaputra flood-
plain; and
(i) land and agricultural use, including irrigation and drainage prac-
tice, infrastructural facilities and developments, including road,
rail and water transport.
13.     Inventory and Analysis of Past Works.  The consultant shall prepare
an inventory of past construction and maintenance works, including retired
embankments, and its effects, in which the following shall receive special
attention:
(a) breaching as a result of overtopping;
(b) breaching as a result of progressing river erosion; and
(c) breaches created on purpose by the population with a view to solve
drainage and other problems.
An assessment should be made of the speed and type of erosion, and the soil
characteristics at each location.
14.     Master Plan for Containment of the Teesta and Brahmaputra Rivers.
The consultant shall prepare a master plan for the containment of the two
rivers from downstream of the Teesta Barrage down to Brahmaputra's confluence
with the Hurasagar. The master plan shall include recommendations for the
type and layout of river training works aiming to provide a permanent protec-
tion of the BRE. While preparing the master plan, the consultant shall
consider whether any measure proposed for fixation of particular points or
stretches along the rivers will not have any detrimental effect elsewhere.
In the master plan the consultant shall also indicate which physical measures
should be implemented on a priority basis, and which measures could be
defered till later. The consultant shall have regard for the time required



-39-                        ANNEX 4
Page 5
for arranging financing, etc., and for the implementation of the measures
proposed.
15.     The master plan shall also address possible alternatives for river
works/measures. Cost estimates of river works and maintenance required shall
be incorporated in the master plan, along with an investment schedule for
phased implementation of the physical measures proposed. As a basis for the
master plan, the consultant shall carry out the necessary hydrological and
river morphological analyses and studies.
Short Term Measures
15.     In order to implement an immediate rehabilitation of critical
sections of the BRE, priority areas shall be identified on the basis of the
threat posed by the river erosion. Population centres, important infrastruc-
tures, agricultural losses, cost of remedial works and scope of various
alternative measures, shall be the criteria for the selection of the sites
and the type of measures (retired embankments with or without permanent
protection works) to be implemented immediately. The short term rehabilita-
tion and/or construction of river works have to be incorporated in the master
plan for development of improved flood protection along the Brahmaputra.
Detailed Design
16.     Simultaneouly with the development of the master plan, the consultant
shall prepare designs for river works, taking into account:
(a) constructibility;
(b) maintenance aspects; and
(c) likelihood of failure and consequences thereof.
Where possible and practicable, the consultant shall allow in his designs for
a maximum use of local labor and materials. In designing the river works
the consultants shall give special consideration to the following:
(a) scour levels at critical locations, including bed scour caused by
phenomena such as:
(i) river bends;
(ii) confluence of channels;
iii) local scour (introduced by, for instance, groynes).
(b) current velocities, including abrasive action caused by suspended
sediments;
(c) flow slides (subsidence slides) and liquefaction of subsoil as a
result of earthquakes;
(d) possible extension of the works in the future; and
¢ (e) construction, planning and scheduling.



-40-                          ANNEX 4
Page 6
Model Investigations
17.     As a basic support to the river studies the consultant shall use
mathematical and physical models suitable to stimulate the flow of water and
sediments of the Brahmaputra, and foreseeable changes therein, resulting from
both natural phenomenon and man-introduced measures or actions.
Surveys
18.     The consultants shall arrange for the collection of river data,
additional to the data routinely collected by the BWDB and BIWTA, par-
ticularly during high river stages. Systems for accurate positioning of
survey vessels are considered essenti&l for obtaining reliable data.
Tender Documents
19.     After completion of the detailed design, the consultant shall prepare
tender documents for the works to be implemented, which shall follow as
closely as possible the World Bank Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement
of Works, dated September 1986. If and when required by the Bank, the con-
sultant shall advice on the pre-qualification of contractors capable of
implementing the works.
Duration and Staffing Requirements
20.     The study is expected to commence in October 1988 and completed by
September 1991. It is estimated that consultancy services would include 100
man-months of internationally recruited specialists services and 216
man-months of local professionals' services and would include the following:



-41-
ANNEX 4
Page 7
Internationally Recruited
Category                            Man-months
1. Team Leader/Hydraulics
Modelling Specialist                      36
2.  River Training Expert                        9
3.  Design Engineer                             12
4.  Hydrologist                                  4
5.  Comp. Hydraulics Engineer                   18
6.  Systems Engineer                            12
7.  Short Term Specialists                       9
Total                         100
Local Professionals
1.  Senior Design Engineer (2 Nos.)             36
2.  Hydraulirs Engineer (2 Nos.)                36
3.  Systems Analyst                             36
4.  Senior Surveyor                             18
. * Senior Hydrologist                          18
6. Senior Research/Modelling
Engineer (2 Nos.)                          36
7.  Programmer (2 Nos.)                         24
8.  Short Term Specialists                      12
Total                         216
21.     BWDB shall provide the consultants with the following support:
(a) office accommodations in Dhaka for consultancy staff;
(b) all facilities of the River Research Laboratory;
(c) design manuals, standard specifications and proforma tender
documents; and
(d) four Nos 4 WD vehicles.
22.     The consultants shall be responsible for:
(a) O&M of vehicles used for transport of consultant personnel
in Dhaka and the field;
(b) office and drawing equipment, inclusive of computers; and
(c) stationary, printing and reproduction.



-42-                       ANNEX 4
Page 8
23.     The consultants shall be responsible for producing:
(a) the master plan (see para. 14) and the proposal for short
term measures (see para. 15); and
(b) monthly and quarterly progress reports.



BANGLADESP
SECOND SKALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Flood Rehabilitation Works /a
Summary Statement of Cost /b
Embankment including breaches                Canal lining                Protection
Quantity            ost       -      Qantity            cost             works       Structures      Others       Total Cost
BWDB Division               km       Vo Wum    wheat       a Soeat    Cash    km    Cost   Nos.   Cost  Nos.   Cost  Wheat                                Cash
('000 m)   (Mt)    (TkM)             ('000 m)   (mt)    (TkM)             (TkM)          (iMM)        (McM)  (at)      (TkM)
tion and Mainte-
nance Circles
fogra                    29.10      1,742    4,274      -       -          -           -    -      2.80   23.00       1   0.30    -    -      4,274      23.30
Serajganj                18.70      1,328    3,822    3.70    -            -           -    -      8.40  107.10      3   0.10    -    -       3,822    110.90
Galbandu                 19.40        804    1,607   17.20    -           26           -   0.42   0.30    0.10       -    -       -    -       1,607     17.72
Rajahahi                 19.80        472    1,210      -    10.90        54           -   0.65   2.10    8.00    21   1.50    -    -         1,210      10.15
Chittagong 1             17.10        335       690   15.50    -           -           -    -      6.16  188.50      8   3.80    -    -         690    207.80
Chittagong 2             32.71        768    1,273    7.45    -           10           -   0.05   4.36   62.00    23   1.80   34   0.50   1,273          71.80
Kaptai                    0.72         16         -    0.50    -           -           -    -      0.41    3.63      -    -       -    -           -      4.13
Cox's Bazaar             97.23      2,978    3,744   28.84    -            -     -          -      5.84   34.14    32   9.51    -   1.10   3,744         73.59
Comulla                  12.96        192        44    3.39    -           -           -    -       -        -        1   0.25    -    -          44      3.64
Chandpur                 25.97        285       553    4.76    -           -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -         553      4.76
Laxaipur                 10.04        300        25    3.00    -           -           -    -      0.15    2.50       3   0.60    -    -          25      6 10
Noakhall                 96.60      1,797    4,329   33.31    -            -                -       -        -       8   2.42    -    -       4,329      35:73
Mymensingh                 -           32        62    0.22    -           -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -          32      0.22
Tangail                    -          141    1,740    0.72    -            -           -    -      0.91    0.48       3   1.37    -    -       1,740      2.57
Projects
Au urt irrigation 1       3.80         93       200     -       -          -           -    -      3.04   47.90      -    -       -    -         200     47.90
Muhurl irrigation 2       3.55          -         -    1.70    -           -           -    -       -        -       4   0.31    -    -            -      2.01
Naogoan WD               13.00         68         -    4.07    -           -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -           -      4.07
Rangpur canal            18.40        564       778     -       -          -           -    -      0.33    3.05      -    -       -    -         778      3.05
Nilphamari WD            10.70        133       367     -       -          -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -         367       -
Saidpur WD I               -            -         -     -       -          -           -    -      0.16    0.95      -    -       -    -           -      0.95
Kurigram WD 1            13.66        836    2,542   16.63    -            -                        -        -       -    -       -    -      2,542      16.63
Rajshahi WD                -          600         -    1.00    -           -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -        600       1.00
Natore WD                  -            -    2,400    4.00    -            -           -    -       -        -       -    -       -    -      2,400       4.00
Barisol WD 2             20.10        607         -   28.75    -           -           -    -       -        -      12   3.00    -    -            -     31.75
Habiganj WD               3.40        275         -    3.48    -           -           -    -      1.88   24.60      -    -       -    -           -     28.08
Subtotal            466.94    14,366   30,230  178.22  10.90          90           -   1.12  36.51  505.95   119  24.96   34   1.60  30,230    711.85
Unallocated /c            149.40      4,606    9,680   59.78   7.86         36           -  11.74  11.34  171.92    48   4.48    -    -          9,680    226.15
otal Project
Base Cost         616.34    18,972   39,910  238.00  18.76         126           -  40.56  47.85  677.87   167  29.44   34   1.60  39,910    938.00
/a  Identified up to September 30, 1987.
7-b Part of the earthworks would be undertaken under the Food-For-Work Program (FFW) and payment made in kind (wheat).  The balance of the
earthworks and all other works would be paid in cash.  This table shows both the cost in kind and in cash.
/c  Unallocated amount to be utilized on repair works identified from October 1987 to January 1988, and for damaged works which, if not repaired,
will vitiate or seriously diminish the effectiveness of other flood damages being repaired under the project.



BANLADES
SECOND SMALL SCULE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAtW4GE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Flood Rebabllitation Works
List of Identlfled Schemes /a
(Base cost in Tk milllon)
Embanmient including breaches                 Canal               Protection
Quantity         Cost           Quantity          Cost             works      Structures      Others       Total cost
Volume3   Wheat    Cash         Volt,9   Wheat    Cash    b km    Cost   Wo,.Cost   Nos.  Cost   Wheat          Casb
BNDB Division                               km             )  (at)    (Tkm)  km   (000 a)  (mt)       (MkN)          CMN)          (TkM)         (TkN)  (mt)      (7kM)
OPERATION ARD MAINTENANCE CIRCLES
Bot ra &M Division
tRL) rroj. rrom M-61 to M-86       22.50   1,146    2,935   0.00      -        _       _        -     2.50   22.60   -      -       -     -      2,935   22.60
BRE (R&D) Proj. from M-61 to M-86        6.40     566    1,257   0.00       -       -        -       -      0.30    0.40   -      -      -     -      1,257    0.40
Gateria Ichamati                         0.20       26       74    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      1    0.30    -     -         74    0.30
Gangnal scheme                            -          4        8    -        -                                -       -      -     -      -      -         8    0.no
Total for Division                   29.10   1.742    4.274   0.00       -       -        -       -     2.80   23.00   1    0.30    -       -      4,274   23.30
Sera  an  O&M Division
sRE K0zIpur                       9.70      615    1,822    -        -       -        -       -      2.00   40.10   1   0.05    -        -     1,822   40.15
BRE Serajgantj                           2.50      335    1,240    -        -       -        -       -      0.50   40.10   2    0.05    -       -     1,240   40.15 3
Seraiganj town protection                1.00       68        0   3.70      -       -        -       -      0.40   16.40   -      -      -      -         0   20.10
Nurasagar subproject                     5.50      310      760    _        -                -       -      5.50   10.50   -      -      -      -       760   In.50
Total for Division                   18.70   1.328    3A822   3.70       -                -       -       .40  107.10   3    0.10    -      -      3,822  110.90
Gsibandha 01 Division
Tanbulpur Croyne (ba'ance)               0.20      137        0  15.00      -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -         0   15.00
South side MirganJ Reg. (M-17)           0.06        7       19    -                                                              -      -     -         19     -
Flank embankment Mirganj Rhal (M-17)   2.13         30       69    -                                                              -      -     -         69      -
X-bar at Belka (1-21 to 22.5)            1.40      157      451    -        -       -        -       -      0.30    0.10   -      -      -      -       451    0.10
X-bar at Karaibari (M-38 to 39)          1.21       74      157    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       157      -
X-bar at Noongola (M-38)                 0.45      112      237    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       237      -
Approach road                            1.61        -        -   2.20      -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -         -    2.20
X-bar at Gazaria (4-48 to 49)            1.61      135      286    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       286      -
Calbandha-Rasulpur approach road         1.65       40      148    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       148      -
Gaibandha TP scheme                      3.22       60      111    -        -       -        -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       111      -
Naleya river scheme                      0.86        6       12    -        -       -        -       _       _       _      _     _      _      _        12     -
Kamsrnai embankment project              5.00       46      117    -            -        -       -       -       -      -      -      -         -       117      -
LPP Irr&gation Schemes
ai   a  7bari scneme                    -          -        -    -        -       2        -      0.03    -        -     -      -      -     -          -    0.03
Boalia scheme                           -         -         -    -        -       8        -      0.13    -        -     -      -      -     -          -    0.13
M4atabari scheme                        -          -        -    -        -       4        -      0.06    -        -     -      -      -      -         -    0.06         (II
Talukshabaj I scheme                    -         -         -    -        -       8        -      0.13    -        -     -      -      -     -          -    0.13
Talukshabaj II scheme                   -          -        -    -        -       4        -      0.05    -        -     -      -      -     -          -    0.05         o
Choraghat scheme                        -          -        -    -        -       -        -      0.02    -        -     -      -      -      -         -    0.02
Total for Division                   19.40     804    1.607  17.20       -      26        -      0.42   0.30    0.10   -                    -      1,607   17.72
/a Identified up to September 30, 1987.



Embankment including breaches                  Canal               Protection
Quantity         Cost             Quantity           Cost          works       Structures    Others       Total cost
NWDB Division                               be      Volum    W                        Wheat   C Wheat  Cash      km   Cash   Nos.  Cost Nos.  Cost Wheat    Casb
('000 a )   (Mt)  (M1k)           ('000 m')   (at)  (TkM)           (TkM)         (TkP)       (Tk)t)  (mt)   (TkM)
Raishahi O&M Division
Rajbahbi town protection                 15.00      355      930      -      -                               2.00    6.50   19   1.00    -    -        930    7.50
Nbrichard Daurs f.c. & dr. scheme         4.80      117      280      -      -                               0.10    1.50    1  0.40    -    -         280    1.90
LPP Irriatlon Schemes
LPP irrigation scheme 01                -           -        -     -      5.00      25          -    0.30   -        -      -    -      -    -         -    0.30
LPP lrrigation scheme 02                -           -        -      -     5.90      29          -    0.35   -        -      -    -      -    -         -    0.35
LPP irrigation scheme 03                -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -     -        -      I  0.10    -    -          -    0.10
Total for Division                    19.80      472    1.210     -    10.90       54          -    0.65  2.10    8.00   21   1.50    -    -    1.210   10.15
ChittagonI 06M Division I
P r 52 CEP Patenga (balance)              9.00      250      500   15.50    -          -          -     -    3.70  160.80    5   3.00    -    -        500  176.30
C. embank. both banks Katakhali Rhal    8.00         75      167      -      -         -          -     -     -        -      3   0.80    -    -       167    0.80
Protection Ramgarh tom  LB Feni river    -            -        -      -      -         -          -     -    0.16    2.00    -    -        -    -        -    2.00
TP left bank of river Sangu                -                                                                 0.05    0.70    -    -        -    -        -    0.70
Protection sea front Latifpur-Kumira       -          -        -      -      -         -          -     -    2.25   25.00    -    -       -    -         -   25.00           a
3mbankment left bank of Rarnafuli         0.10       10       23      -      -                                -        -      -    -       -    -       23     -
Total for Division                   17.10       335      690   15.50    -               -           -    6.16  188.50    8   3.80    -    -        690  207.80
Chlttagong O&H Division 2
Flood danege 63/lA and 63/1B             21.50      340      540    3.75    -          10         _    0.05  1.50   25.00    5   0.25   13   0.25    540   29.30
Flood damage a repair Polder 64/1A       4.95       228      400    1.90    -          -          -     -    1.75   26.00    5  0.40    7   0.10    400   28.40
nlood damage & repair Polder 64/1B       4.25       115      185    1.10    -          -                -    0.81    5.00    9   0.80   10   0.10    185    7.00
Flood damage 6 repair Polder 64/1C        2.01       85       148    0.70    -         -                -    0.30    6.00    4   0.35    4   0.05    148    7.10
Total for Dlvision                   32.71       768    1.273    7.45    -         10          -    0.05  4.36   62.00   23   1.80   34   0.50  1.273   71.80
Kaptai 0&W Division
KIP (Ichameti Unit)
Protection works (spur) Mariun Nagar   -            -        -      -      -         -          -     -    0.08    0.20    -    -       -    -         -    0.20
nFood embankment from Rath to Rill    0.24          3        -    0.20    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -         -    0.20
tip (Balda Unit)
Protection works RIB Halda river        -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.09    3.40    -    -       -    -         -    3.40
Flood em_nkseats R/B Ralda river       0.48        13        -    0.30    -          -          -     -    0.24    0.03    -    -       -    -         -    0.33
Total for Division                    0.72        16        -    0.50    -                           -    0.41    3.63    -    -       -    -         -    4.13
0o



Embankment including breaches                Canal               Protection
Quantity         Coat            Quantity          Cost           works      Structures   Others       Total cost
3IIDB Division                             km     Voluma    Wheat   Cash   he       Voluato Wheat Csh         he   Csh   Nos. Cost Nos. Cost Wheat   Cash
('000 am)   (mt)  (TkM)          ( 000 m)   (mt)  (TkM)           (TkM)         (Tk")       (TkM)  (mt)  (THN)
Cox's Bazaar 0&M Divislon
Polder No. 65                          25.00      726    1.000    5.46    -          -         -     -    1.06    0.75    4   3.00   LS   0.30  1,000    9.51
Natbaunburi river training works        3.18       118      233    0.69    -         -         -     -    0.46    9.12    -    -      LS   0.40    233   10.21
Polder No. 64/2A                        5.45       104      185    0.31    -         -         -     -    0.36    0.25    8   2.20   LS   0.10    185    2.86
Polder No. 6412B                       11.16      375      256    4.38    -          -         -     -    0.43    0.30    5   2.36   LS   0.20    256    7.24
Polder No. 66/4                        14.24       323      382    2.74    -         -         -     -     -       -       1  0.40    -    -       382    3.14
Polder No. 70                           8.06      388       415    4.22    -         -         -     -    0.50   11.00    2  0.80   LS   0.10    415   16.12
Polder No. 69 (Phase r)                 4.76       105      207    -       -         -         -     -    0.36    0.52    -    -       -    -      207    0.52
Polder No. 71                           9.17      414       274    7.98    -         -         -     -    1.12   11.80    1  0.20    -    -        274   19.98
Polder No. 68                           9.20      225       404    0.48    -         -         -     -    1.55    0.40    5   0.25    -    -       404    1.13
Polder No. 67                           3.92        50      100     -      -         -         -     -     -       -       6   0.30    -    -      100    0.30
Polder No. 67/A                         0.20       90       177    2.50    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -      177    2.50
Polder No. 67/B                         2.89       60       111    0.08    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -      111    0.08
Total for Division                  97.23    2,978    3.744   28.84    -          -         -     -    5.84   34.14   32   9.51    -   1.10  3.744   73.59
Camilla OH Division
isrRintl EmbaAheent on ganki River
Left baik 0.90 to 12.512 km           0.79        18       -    1.01    -          -         -     -     -       -       -    -      _    _        _    1.01
Right bank 3.75 to 11.331 ke          0.17        4         -    0.30    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -        -    0.30
Right and left bank                  12.00       170       44    2.08    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -       44    2.08
Cross dana/Narichakandi Kal            -          -         -     -      -         -         -     -     -       -       1  0.25    -    -         -    0.25
Total for Division                  12.96       192       44    3.39    -                                       -       1  0.25    -             44    3.64
Chandpur O& Division
Chanudaur Irrigation Project
Embankment in RICh. 0-1, 58. 59       3.61        24       50    0.48    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -       50    0.48
Main embank. in between 2/30-11       4.64        53      109    0.86    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -      109    0.86
Vain embank. N/Ch. 40-4S, 47-48       5.60        68      139    1.12    -         -         -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -      139    1.12
tain embank. MCch. 11, 15-16, 18-21   6.50       90       188    1.47    -         -         -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -      180    1.47
Maim embank. RICh. 24-27              4.01        30       63    0.50    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -       e3    0.50
Wain embank. in M/Ch. 36/5-37/5       1.61        20        4   0.33    -                    -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -        4    0.33
Total for Division                  25.97       2R5      553    4.76    -              -       -        -       -      -    -       -    -      553    4.76
Laiur O0M Divislon
Comprehensive drainage scheme           10.04      300       25    3.00    -         -         -     -    0.15    2.50    3  0.60    -    -         25    6.10
_   _   _  _  _   _     _     _      _             _    _       _    _       _      _~    ~~I



Embankment including breaches                Canal               Protection
Quantity         Cost            Quantity          Cost          works       Structures    Others      Total cost
BIDI Division                              km     Volumq   Wheat    Cash   km       Volumt  VGeat Cash        km   Cash   Nos. Cost  -os.  Cost %heat   Cash
('000 a)   (tat)  (MkX)          ( 000 m )  (Mt  (1m)             (I1M)         (TkM)       (TkM)  (tt)  (TkM)
Noakhali OUM Division
CRP, Phase I ia Polder 59/lA            0.18         1       -    0.03    -          -         -     -     -       -      -   -       -   -          -    0.03
CRP, Phase I In Polder 59113             -           1      93    0.69    -          -         -     -     -       -       1  0.57    -   -         93    1.26
C8P, Phase II in Polder 59/3B          20.80      714    1,698   12.93   -           -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -   -    1,698   12.93
CEP, Phase II In Polder 59/3C          14.30      429    1,122    7.48    -          -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -    1,122    7.48
CXP, Pbase    Polder 73/1A & 1, 73/2   11.50     289      673    7.62    -          -         -     -     -       -      5   1.50   -    -        673    9.12
Conastr. of embank. on Mbburi river    13.00       147      303    1.86    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -   -        303    1.86
Conetr. of embank. on Kabua river      10.00       120      243    1.49    -         -         -     -     -       -       1  0.25   -    -        243    1.74
Constr. of eabank. on Selonla river     9.00       96       197    1.21    -         -         -     -     -       -       I  0.10    -   -        197    1.31
Total for Division                  96.60    1.797    4.329   33.31    -          -         -     -     -       -      8   2.42   -    -    4.329   35.73
nywenslAgb 0XM Division
Kangsba river lert bank                  -          30       59    0.01    -         -         -     -     -       -       -    -      -   -        59    0.01
Dublakuri-Katu IKholl                    -           2        3   0.21    -          -         -     -     -       -      -    -       -    -        3   0.21
Total for Division                    -          32       62   0.22    -          -         -     -                                              62    0.22
Tangail 011 Division
Embankiasnt Pigna                        -         122      310    0.30    -              -       -     -      -       -       -      -    -       310    0.30
Regulator Janakipur                      -          19    1,430    0.42    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -    1,430    0.42
Rsexcavation tirga river                 -          -         -     -      -         -         -     -     -       -       3   1.37   -    -         -    1.37
Deunganj TP schem                        -          -         -     -      -         -         -     -    0.91    0.48    -   -        -    -        -    0.48
Total for Division                    -         141    1.740    0.72    -         -         -     -    0.91    0.48    3   1.37    -    -    1.740    2.57
PROJECTS
Nuhuri Irrigation Division I
Protectlon outlet canal Feni reg.        -          -         -     -      -                              0.60   12.10    -    -                     -   12.10
Protection D1S Veni reg.                 -          -         -     -      -         -         -          2.44   35.80    -    -      -    -         -   35.80
Resect. wing dike Faul reg.             3.80       93       200     -      -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -       200     -
Total for Division                   3.80       93       200                                      -    3.04   47.90   -                 -       200   47.90
Mlhuri  IrrigatIon Dividson 2
PReconstr. of cross band, Feni           -          -        -                                             -       -       3  0.08    -    -         -    0.08
Reconstr. of cross bunds, Mirsari        -          -         -     -      -         -         -     -     -       -       1  0.23    -    -         -    0.23
Maintenance of Veni closure             3.55        -         -    0.60    -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    0.60
Protection of diversion canal            -          -          -    -      -         -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -     -
Access road, Jorargang                   -          -        -    1.10    -          -         -     -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    1.10
Total for Division                   3.55        -        -    1.70    -          -         -     -    _        -      4   0.31    -    -         -    2.01    0



Embankment including breaches                 Canal                Protection
Quantity         Cost             Quantity           Cost          works       Structures    Others       Total cost
BODB Division                               km      VoluM4   Wheat    Cash    km      Volum-   Wheat  Cash       km   Cash   Nos.  Cost Nos.  Cost  Wheat    Cash
('000 m')   (at)   (TkM)          ('000 u )   (at)  (TkM)           (Tk14)        (Tk14)      (TkY)  (at)   (TkM)
Nadgeon ID Division
Neogaon Polder 1                         13.00       68        -    4.07                                                                  -    -         -    4.07
Rangpr Cana; Dlvislon
Bodargang protection scheme               -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.10    1.00    -    -       -    -         -    1.00
Dharmaghat bridge                         -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.04    0.05    -    -       -    -         -    0.05
Jamunesuari closure Balua                 -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.02    1.40    -    -       -    -         -    1.40
Sarai protection scheme                   -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.17    0.60    -    -       -    -         -    0.60
Teesta Rlght Embankment
Reconstruction, Kaunia                 5.00       135      185     -       -         -          -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -       185     -
Reconstruction, Rangpur                0.40        14       18     -       -         -          -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -        18     -
Reconstruction, Gangachara             8.20       280      390     -       -         -          -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -       390     -
Reconstruction, Kishoregang            4.80       135      185     -       -         -          -     -     -       -       -    -      -    -       185     -
Total for Division                   18.40       564      778     -       -         -          -     -    0.33    3.05    -    -       -    -       778    3.05
Nilphausri MD Division
Sauri Teesta left bank embankment        10.70      133      367     -       -         -          -     -     -        -      _    _      _    _       367     -
Saidpur WD Divlsion I
Rasneth bridge - Parbatipur               -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.03    0.30    -    -       -    -         -    0.30
WCS - Parbitpur                            -          -        -      -      -         -          -     -    0.08    0.10    -    -        -    -        -    0.10
Dholaighat bridge - Taragong              -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.05    0.55    -    -       -    -         -    0.55
Total for Division                     -           -        -     -       -         -          -     -    0.16    0.95    -    -       -    -         -    0.95
Kurigras WD Division 1
Kurigram FCG IRR - Ulipur                0.30       502    1,065    7.40    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -    1,065    7.40
Kurigram FCG  IRR - Rajarhat             3.70        51      261    1.42    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -       261    1.42
Rurigram FCG IRR - Lalmonirhst            1.00       34      332    1.77    -                                                                          332    1.77
Rurigram FCG IRR - Chatrapuri 2          0.51        93      518    3.71    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -       518    3.71
Kurigram FCG IRR - Kadamtala              3.61       85      200    1.20    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -       200    1.20
Kurigram FOG IRR - Demalgram              2.00       39       95    1.13    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -       -    -       95    1.13
Kurigram FCC IRR - Bhuranganari          2.54        32       71    0.38    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -        71    0.38
Total for Division                   13.66       836    2.542   16.63    -          -          -     -     -        -      -    -      -    -    2.542   16.63
Ra%sh!h WD Division 
ChalanB7eal Folder D (balance)            -           -      600      -                                                                         -      600    1.00
0%



Embankment including breaches                 Canal               Protection
Quantity         Cost            Quantity           Cost          works       Structures    Others      Total cost
311DB Division                              km     Volums   Wheat    Cash    km      Vo1um   Wheat Cash         k    Cash   Noe.  Cost Nos  Cost Wheat    Cash
('000 m3)   (mt)   (TkM)         ('000 a)   (at)  (TkM)            (TkM)         (Tk")       (TkW)  (mt)  (TkY)
Natore MD Division
Chalan Beel Polder A (balance)            -          -      600      -                --                                                             600    1.00
Chalan Beel Polder B (balance)            -          -      600      -      -                                                                          0-  -  -  -  -  -  -    1.00
Chalan Beal Polder C (balance)            -          -      600      -      -         -         -      -     -       -      -    -      -    -       600    1.00
Chalan Beel Polder D (balance)            -          -      600      -                -         -      -     -              -           -            600    1.00
Total for Division                     -          -    2,400     -       -                        -        -    -       -         -             2.400    4.00
Barisol WD Division 2
Satla Bagda Polders I to 11             20.1       607        -   28.75    -          -         -      -     -       -     12   3.00   -   _           -   31.75
Rabigani WD Division
Xhovai River Pro lect
Len"para left bank, Khowai river       1.09      185        -    0.65    -          -         -      -    0.18    4.15    -    -      _    _         _    4.80
Rangargeon left bank, Khowai river    0.18         5        -    0.13    -          -         -      -    0.12    1.57    -    -      -    _         _    1.70
Kalianagar left bank, Kbowai river      -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.06    0.75    -    -       -    -         -    0.75
Anandapur left bank, Khowai river       -          -        -     -       -         -         -     -    0.09    1.12    -    -       -    -         -    1.12
Laskarpur left bank, Rhowai river      0.20        5        -    0.20    -          -         -     -    0.06    0.75    -    -       -    -         -    0.95
Charhaima left bank, Rbowai river      0.30        6        _    0.23    -          -         -     -    0.06    0.77    -    _       _    _         _    1.00
Ramnagar left bank, Khowai river        -          -        -      -      -         -         -      -    0.06    0.75    -    -      -    -         -    0.75
Alapur left bank, Khowai river          -          -        -      -      -         -         -      -    0.12    1.50    -    -      -    -         -    1.50
Garuhata left batk, Khwai river         -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.12    1.60    -    -       -    -         -    '.60
Gobinpur right bank                     -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.31    3.50    -    -       -    -         -    3.50
isidabad right bank                     -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.12    1.50    -    -       -    -         -    1.50
Noabad rigt bank                       -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.18    2.23    -    -       -    -         -    2.23
Mirjatula left bank, Khowai river       -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.15    1.75   -    -        -    -         -    1.75
Hartpur left bank, KhowaI river         -          -        -      -      -         -         -     -    0.09    1.05    -    -       -    -         -    1.05
Lakripara to Kutundar                   -          2        -    0.03    -          -         -      -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    0.03
Rameree                                0.46       27        -    0.85    -          -         -     -    0.04    0.04    -    -       -    -         -    0.89
Karimpur                               0.16        2        -    0.05    -          -         -      -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    0.05
Rashergaon to Kari pur                 0.25        1        -    0.02    -          -         -      -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    0.02
Aikandi                                0.76       42        -    1.32    -          -         -      -     -       -      -    -      -    -         -    1.32
6borgaoc                                -          -        -     -       -         -         -     -    0.06    0.75    -    -       -    -         -    0.75
Protection of river Khowai              -          -        -      -      -         -         -      -    0.06    0.82    -    -      -    -         -    0.82
Total for Division                    3.40      275        -    3.48    -          -         -      -    1.88   24.60    -    -      -    -         -   28.08
aI



