Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16011
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CR. 1870-BD)
September 25, 1996
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency = Taka (Tk)
Appraisal (May 1987) US$1.00 = Tk. 3 1.0
Intervening years (1988-1994) US$1.00 = Tk. 36.7
Completion year (1995) US$1.00 = Tk. 40.0
BORROWER
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
I acre (ac) = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 metric ton (mt) = 26.8 maund (md)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP      =     Annual Development Programme
BWDB   =       Bangladesh Water Development Board
CIDA     =     Canadian International Development Agency
CTU      =     Canadian Technical Unit
CBO&M  =        Conmmunity-Based Operation and Maintenance
D        =     Drainage
ERR      =     Economic Rate of Return
FCD      =      Flood Control and Drainage
FCDI    =      Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
FFW            Food-For-Work
FRW      =      Flood Rehabilitation Works
I        =     Irrigation
IDA            International Development Association
GOB      =     Government of Bangladesh
HYV      =     High Yielding Varieties
MOWR   =        Ministry of Water Resources
OSS      =     Operation Status Survey
O&M      =     Operation and Maintenance
PIU      =     Project Implementation Unit
SRP             System Rehabilitation Project
SSDFC   =      Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
SSFCDI  =      Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
SDR            Special Drawing Right
TA       =      Technical Assistance
WFP      =     World Food Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION
PROJECT (CR 1870-BD)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...............
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................                                        ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .1
Statement of Project Objectives                                               I
Evaluation of Project Objectives                     .2
B.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                               .3
C.  MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                              .7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                   .8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                      .9
Identification and Preparation                      .9
Appraisal                                 .9
Supervision                                .9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
Identification and Preparation .10
Implementation .10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .......................... 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................... 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. ILs contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................                                                                      16
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual ..................                                             ............ 16
Table  5:   Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................................                                         17
Table 6:   Key  Indicators for Project Operation .................................................                                                18
Table 7:   Studies Included  in Project ................................................. 19
Table 8A: Project Costs ..................................................                                                                        20
Table 8B:  Project Financing (US$  Million) ................................................. 20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                                                           21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                                                            22
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements .................................................. 24
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ..................................................                                                     24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................                                                             24
APPENDICES
1.          Mission's Aide Memoire
2.          List of Sub-Projects
3.          Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation
MAP #: IBRD 20247 (July 1987)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Small Scale Flood
Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1870-BD in the
amount of SDR61.70 million (US$81.50 million equivalent) was approved on January 26,
1988, and made effective on November 4, 1988. However, the amount of the Credit allocated
to the project was reduced in August 1994 to SDR57.52 million (US$80.50 million equivalent)
when savings of SDR4.18 million (US$5.85 million equivalent) were diverted for the Coastal
Embankment Rehabilitation Priority Works Program (PWP) to finance rehabilitation of works
damaged due to the devastating cyclone of April 1991. (This work, financed from this credit,
three other credits, and Japanese and European Community Grants, will be covered in a
separate ICR). The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995. The final total disbursements,
excluding funds reallocated to the PWP, were SDR56.52 million (US$79.10 rnillion
equivalent). The total undisbursed balance for Credit 1870-BD was SDR1.6 million (US$2.3
million equivalent). This includes SDRO.5 million (US$0.8 million) from funds reallocated to
PWP. Due to political disruption impeding normal Government, functioning, the Government
was given until June 30, 1996 to submit bills for works and services provided prior to the
Closing Date.
Co-financing for the technical assistance and training during the period September
1988 to June 1994 was provided by the Canadian International Development Agency. Total
grant funds as of June 30, 1994, amounted to Canadian $12.94 nillion (US$10.60 million
equivalent). The World Food Programme also provided about 64,200 tons of wheat
(US$10.80 million equivalent) under the Food-For-Work Program for the construction/
reconstruction of embankments.
Preparation of the ICR was undertaken by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission" which visited Bangladesh in February/March 1996, coinciding with an IDA final
supervision mission. However, in view of security problems in the country, the mission's
program in Bangladesh as well as field visits to selected sub-projects were very limited.
Therefore, preparation of this ICR was largely carried out as a desk review on the basis of all
documentation available and discussions with the staff of the World Bank, the Bangladesh
Water Development Board and consultants who were involved with the project. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and discussions with involved
staff, providing relevant data, and commenting on the draft ICR.
Messrs. T. Loliavisavapaniicil (Economist/Missioni Leader); M. Sugimura (Agronomist) and G. Schohinan (Flood
Control and Drainage Enginieer, Consilltait).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Bank has been associated since 1979 with projects providing assistance to
Bangladesh in complementing the Food-For-Work Program (FFW) new construction and
reconstruction of flood embankments through financing of appurtenant structures and
additional earthworks where required. The First Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
Project (SSDFC, Cr. 955-BD) was approved by IDA in 1979 to finance the construction of
permanent structures in FFW schemes, with co-financing from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) for technical assistance (TA) and training program. Given the
positive impact of the SSDFC Project and at the request of the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB), the Bank and CIDA agreed to finance a successor project namely, the Second SmaDl
Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (SSSFCDI, Cr. 1870-BD).
2.    The Bank has also been involved in assisting GOB in the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of flood protection works destroyed or damaged due to devastation caused by
floods and cyclones. The first Flood Rehabilitation Project (FRP, Cr. 1587-BD) was approved
in 1985, followed by the second and third FRPs (Cr. 1876-BD and Cr. 2048-BD) approved in
1988 and 1989 respectively. Following the devastation caused by the July-September 1987
floods, the Bank agreed to include a flood rehabilitation works program under the SSSFCDI
Project.
Objectives
3.     The main objectives of the project were to: (i) increase agricultural production and
farm incomes by supporting investments in small schemes designed for protection of
agricultural lands against floods, prevention of salt water intrusion, improved drainage and
provision of water for irrigation; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) to implement new projects and to operate and maintain
completed sub-projects; and (iii) restore flood protection, drainage, irrigation and town
protection infrastructures damaged by the 1987 floods. (Remedying damage from the 1988
floods was later added.)
4.    The project consisted of two components: (i) small scale flood control, drainage and
irrigation (SSFCDI); and (ii) flood rehabilitation works (FRW). The SSFCDI component



iii
included: (i) construction of 15 fully planned new sub-projects (requiring both earthworks and
structures) covering about 50,000 ha, and construction/rehabilitation of 200 appurtenant
structure sub-projects (providing water control structures where earthworks had been
undertaken under the Food-For-Work (FFW) Program) covering 200,000 ha nationwide,
including provision of funds for operation and maintenance (O&M) of completed sub-projects;
(ii) training of BWDB staff and fanners involved in the construction and O&M of sub-projects;
(iii) procurement of vehicles and special construction equipment; and (iv) provision of TA and
training for planning, design and monitoring of construction of sub-projects, the benchmark
and evaluation studies of selected sub-projects, the modernization of BWDB's financial
management and accounting systems, and the establishment of an O&M Cost Cell at BWDB's
headquarters.
5.    The FRW component included: (i) the reconstruction of about 470 km of
embankments, rehabilitation/replacement of I I km of canal lining and 119 hydraulic structures,
and construction of 37 km new protective works, (ii) provision of TA for implementation
support and mathematical modeling study for the Brahmaputra river; and (iii) procurement of
vehicles.
6.    Project changes after app)raisal. During implementation, the number of SSFCDI sub-
projects was reduced from 215 to 1202. The number of fully planned new sub-projects was
reduced from 15 to 14, whilst the number of appurtenant structure sub-projects was reduced
from 200 to 106-'. However, the anticipated benefited areas increased by 13% from about
250,000 ha to 282,654 ha. The C[DA funded TA, training and studies program was scheduled
to be completed by December 31 , 1993 because the implementation component of all sub-
projects was expected to be terminated by that date. (The remainder of the project period was
expected to be devoted to improved O&M). Due to delays in construction CIDA agreed to
extend its financing by 18 months to June 1994, to maintain consultancy support. Thereafter
the extended consultant's services during the period July 1994 to December 1995 (other than
the community-based O&M program for which CIDA financing continued until March 1995)
were financed by the IDA Credit. Savings of SDR 4.18 million (US$5.85 million equivalent)
from the IDA Credit were also diverted in August 1994 for utilization under the Coastal
Embankment Rehabilitation Priority Works Program to finance the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of embankments in the five polders damaged by the devastating cyclone of April
1991 (to be covered under a separate ICR).
7.    At appraisal, the FRW component was based on a preliminary damage report prepared
by BWDB, but the original work program was changed during project implementation
following the completion of the detailed surveys and to cover further damages caused by the
2 The official GOB figures. which show 122 subprojects. include two subprojects
twice. first as originally planned and a second niie as rehabilitation projects to
repair flood damage.
3The 106 appurellanll stniclure sub-projects inclutdc constniction of new stnictures for 66 sub- projects
and rehabilitationi of existing srtrcitures for 40 sub-projects.



iv
1988 floods. SDR 3.9 million were allocated to strengthen the River Research Institute. In
addition, the mathematical modeling study of the Meghna river was added following severe
bank erosion caused by the 1988 floods. Following completion of the Brahmaputra Studies, the
consultants' contract was extended to include the preparation of the River Bank Protection
Project (Credit 279 1-BD) identified under these studies.
8.    Evaluation of objectives. The objectives and scope of the SSFCDI and FRW
components were generally clear and realistic. Their design and methodology followed the
same approaches adopted in the previous projects. The SSFCDI component was important to
increase foodgrain production by supporting investments in small schemes, whilst the FRW
component had the highest priority to repair the extensive damages to FCDI infrastructure
caused by the 1987 floods, in order to minimize losses to the country's economy. The project
scope, which involved construction of sub-projects and reconstruction under the FRW
component, was compatible with the institutional capacity of BWDB. However, under the
country's prevailing funding constraints and given the difficult procedures of land acquisition,
the number of sub-projects exceeded what could be handled during the planned construction
period for the SSFCDI component. The objective of achieving a sustainable O&M system is
essential, but given the past poor performance record of BWDB in carrying out O&M works
and the complex socio-economic conditions of the benefited communities, expectations of
what could be achieved during the project period turned out to be overly optimistic. In
addition, in the absence of BWDB commitment to improved O&M, the training program was
not successful in improving the skills of BWDB field staff and the benefited communities in the
management and implementation of O&M activities.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    The SSFCDI component experienced considerable difficulties during the construction
of sub-projects. As a result, construction got delayed and continued during the anticipated
O&M phase in FY94 and FY95 and the original plan of financing of O&M under the project
until two years after completion of construction work did not materialize. The shortage of
counterpart funding plagued the project during the initial four years of project implementation.
Also, delays in pre-construction activities, mainly the delayed land acquisition and late contract
awards, added to the problem. Quality of earthworks was unsatisfactory during the same
period due to ineffective supervision by BWDB management and field staff. Quality improved
substantially during the later part of project implementation. At the Closing Date in December
1995, physical achievemnent was about 98%. Out of a total of 120 sub-projects approved for
implementation (see para. 6), 107 sub-projects were completed as per original plans. Using
GOB's own funds, two of the remaining 13 sub-projects were completed in FY96 and eleven
are scheduled for completion during FY97. In addition, the need for additional mninor
structures for several projects was identified during an Operational Status Survey (OSS) in
1994, and remaining structures for 20 subprojects are expected to be completed during FY97
and FY98. Meanwhile these subprojects are considered to be operable, but not at full
potential. Despite the reduction in the total number of sub-projects from 215 as planned at
appraisal to 120 subsequently approved for implementation (see para. 6), the total benefited



v
areas are estimated to have increased by about 13% from about 250,000 ha to 282,654 ha.
IDA is continuing to supervise the adequacy of the mitigation measures identified in the OSS as
part of its supervision of the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP/Cr. 2099-BD).
10.   Albeit with a delay of one year, the implementation of the FRW component was
satisfactory and its physical achievements substantially surpassed the appraisal targets. The
rehabilitation works commenced in FY89 and were completed by the end of FY92. About 485
km of embankments were reconstructed, 28 km of canal lining and 360 hydraulic structures
were replaced or repaired, and 102 km new protective works were constructed. Although land
acquisition was a constraint during implementation, the difficulties encountered were not too
serious. Quality of earthworks during the initial period was poor and improvements were
observed as the works continued in the last two years.
11.   A major shortcoming has been the failure to establish a sustainable O&M system. The
achievement in O&M activities has so far been unsatisfactory. Neither the O&M Cost Cell was
established as planned nor a viable and sustainable O&M system was in place at the end of the
project. In addition, only a very limited scale of the periodic maintenance of some completed
sub-projects was carried out, but this could not attain the target planned as the actual
budgetary allocations and release of funds were insufficient. The Community-Based O&M
(CBO&M) program introduced on a pilot basis during the latter period of the project to ensure
effective participation of the benefited community in O&M activities and create an atmosphere
of ownership of the sub-project works, has shown some promise and is expected to be a
successful program if it is continued. BWDB has approved Guidelines for Peoples'
Participation which provide for replication of such comrunity participation on a much wider
scale to cover all FCD sub-projects. However, sustainability will depend upon increased
efforts to improve O&M, including provision of adequate funds and staff training in
implementing participatory O&M methods. Follow-up work on these issues is continuing as
part of supervision of SRP.
12.   Despite serious delays, implementation of other project activities was satisfactory.
After initial delays, all the studies under the two components were completed within a
reasonable period and produced many useful recommendations. The modernized financial
management and accounting systems for BWDB were developed and subsequently adopted by
BWDB on a nationwide basis during 1994. Twenty-five Regional Accounting Centres have
been established and an improved accounting system, designed to make BWDB's financial
transactions more transparent, has been put into operation on a manual basis. The initial steps
for conversion to a computerized system and further improvements in the accounting system
are being supported by IDA (Riverbank Protection Project-Credit 2791 -BD), while
arrangements are underway for provision of CIDA financing for a larger scale program to
improve financial management. The finalization of the River Bank Protection Project (Credit
2791 -BD) to arrest erosion of the river bank at critical locations of Brahmaputra river was an
important outcome of the Brahmaputra river study undertaken under the project (see Table 7
of Part II. However, although most aspects of the training program were carried out
effectively, the low priority given to O&M within BWDB severely limited the effectiveness of
the programs for training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries in O&M.



vi
13.   Economic impact. At appraisal, the estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) of the
six appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects, including Singimari Beel, Laithi River,
Srinagar Mawa Bhagyakul (SMB), Polder 55/2A, Chandpur Irrigation Extension (CIP) and
Harbang Chara, ranged from 19% to 40%, and averaged at 31% for both the combined six
appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects and the SSFCDI component.
14.   Except the Harbang Chara sub-project, the ERRs re-estimated at project completion
for five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects range from 12.5% to 37.4% (see Appendix 3,
Tables 35-40 ) compared to 26%-40% estimated at appraisal. The lower ERRs are due mainly
to delayed accrual of project benefits resulting from about 2-4 years delays in completion of
construction, lower incremental cropping intensities (SMB sub-project) and incremental crop
yields (CIP and SMB sub-projects), and substantially higher prices of unskilled labor and draft
animals. Due to insufficient irrigation water resulting in 30% lower incremental cropping
intensities and 60% lower incremental crop yields, the re-estimated ERR of the Harbang Chara
sub-project is low at only 2.4% compared to 19.4% estimated at appraisal. (It is reported that
decreased water availability is due primarily to unanticipated increased use by upstream
farmers. It is not clear at present when this should have become evident, or whether the
project design could have been usefully adjusted at that time.) The re-estimated ERRs are
22.8% for the combined six appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects (Appendix 3, Table
41) compared to 31% estimated at appraisal. Using the average cropping intensities and crop
yields of the six fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects, the re-estimated ERR of the SSFCDI
component covering 120 sub-projects is 37.8% (Appendix 3, Table 42). The higher ERR for
the SSFCDI component is due to the substantial increases in the benefited areas (13%) and the
early accrual of project benefits resulting from the early completion of sub-projects, particularly
the completion of the appurtenant structure sub-projects from FY89 onwards (Appendix 3,
Table 34). Underlying assumptions about costs and benefits are given in Table 9 of Part II and
Appendix 3.
15.   Sensitivity analysis. A viable and sustainable O&M system is presently not in place.
Unless steps are taken to ensure proper O&M of completed works, the potential full
production benefits would not be sustained. A lack of O&M plans, inadequate O&M funds,
inability of BWDB and beneficiaries to carry out regular O&M activities or a combination of
these activities would result in the deterioration of infrastructures of sub-projects and
consequently reduce the cropped areas and production of mainly HYV paddy The sensitivity
analysis carried out by the ICR mission indicates that 30% reduction in the cropped areas of
HYV paddy would result in 1 0%-25% decreases in the production benefits and would lower
the ERRs of the five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects by 1%-4%, whilst the ERR of the
Harbang Chara sub-project would be negative (Appendix 3, Tables 43-48). An average 15%
reduction in production benefits would lower the re-estimated ERR of the combined six fully
planned SSFCDI sub-projects by 1% (Appendix 3, Table 49) and of the SSFCDI component
by 6% (Appendix 3, Table 50). The sensitivity analysis also indicates that ERRs are insensitive
to substantial reductions in production benefits. ERRs of four of the six fully planned sub-
projects (excluding the Harbang Chara and Singimari Beel sub-projects), the combined six fully



vii
planned FCDI sub-projects and the SSFCDI component would still be favourable at 15%-36%,
21.5% and 31.8% respectively.
16.   Environmental impact. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the sub-projects would
have mix of environmental effects whose net effect would be positive though not readily
quantifiable. The sub-projects were taken up for implementation after discussions and reaching
consensus with beneficiaries. With the exception of one sub-project, where navigation issues
were faced during implementation, construction continued without interruption. A mitigation
survey conducted towards the end of the project period indicated a positive impact on
agricultural production in all SSFCDI sub-projects. However, adverse effects on fishenies,
navigation and drainage were also found significant. Impact on fisheries was positive in 12 sub-
projects, negative in 48 and neutral in 62 sub-projects.4 Impact on navigation was positive in 3
subprojects, negative in 10 and neutral in 109 sub-projects. Impact on drainage was positive in
61 sub-projects and neutral in 25 sub-projects, whilst mitigation measures, mainly for resolving
localized drainage and irrigation problems, were required in 36 sub-projects. Given the short
duration of the study, the findings are indicative of the existing situation. A more detailed
study should be carried out over a longer period to determine precisely the extent of the
negative effects. BWDB is finalizing consultancy support for development of fisheries and
navigation mitigation plans. This work is being supervised under SRP.
17.   Farm incomes. The impact of the project on farm incomes has been re-estimated for
the six fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects (Para. 13) on one-hectare owner-operator models as
shown in Appendix 3, Tables 19-24. Annual net farm incomes at full development are re-
estimated to increase by 33%-61%% from about Tk 13,159-Tk 17,972 in Without Project
(WOP) to Tk 17,540-Tk 28,995 in With Project (WP) for four FCD sub-projects', and by
12%-15%% from Tk 38,707-Tk 41,619 in WOP to Tk 43,366-Tk 47,893 in WP for the two
irrigation sub-projects6. The re-estimated incremental annual net farm incomes for one hectare
owner-operated farms are Tk 4,380-Tk 11,000, reflecting real decreases of 40%-50% below
the appraisal estimates. As noted earlier (para. 14), the lower incremental cropping intensities
and crop yields and substantial increases in prices of hired labor and draft animals are the
factors contributing to lower incremental farm incomes than estimated at appraisal.
18.   Project sustainability. A key requirement for sustainability is a steady O&M  regime
with a reliable source of funding. As noted earlier (para. 11), the present O&M approach is
ineffective. Changes are necessary in the organizational set up of BWDB, planning and
funding of O&M activities as well as supervision by all levels of BWDB's staff The role of
BWDB's management at field level and beneficiaries should also be clearly defined. BWDB has
indicated its intention for the CBO&M program, introduced on a pilot basis under the project
(para. I1), to be continued and replicated to cover all sub-projects to ensure effective
4 This survey used the official total of 122 sub-projects. See footnote 1.
s Sinigimilari Beel. Laithi River. Srinagar Mawva Bhagyakul and Polder 55/2A.
6 Chandpur Gravity Irrigation Extensioni Proiect and Hlarbang Chara sub-project



viii
participation of the benefited community in O&M activities and create an atmosphere of
ownership of the sub-project works. Meanwhile, to ensure that infrastructures of sub-projects
are operational, adequate funds for preventive and periodic maintenance should be provided.
BWDB field staff should give technical guidance to sluice committees in operational activities,
and BWDB management at the Zonal and Circle level should ensure that field staff carry out
their responsibilities. Unless the above actions are taken and an effective O&M system is firmly
in position, the sustainability of project works would be uncertain. Follow-up work on these
issues is continuing under SRP.
19.   Actual project cost and financing. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative
statement of the project estimated and final costs. Initially, it was estimated that construction
would be completed by FY93. Current estimates indicate that final construction and
rehabilitation of civil works at I I sub-projects and additional minor structures required for
some 20 sub-projects are not likely to be completed until the end of FY97 although the Credit
was closed on December 31, 1995. When allowance is made for costs to complete the
remaining civil works and additional minor structures, the final costs of the project are now
estimated at Tk 3,834 million (US$104.4 million), representing only 5% cost overrun over the
original cost estimates in Taka terms. The substantial increases in the quantity of earthworks
and structures were fully offset by the 43% reduction in the number of sub-projects from 215
as planned at appraisal to 120 as subsequently approved for implementation (para. 6).
Expressed in US dollar, the final project costs would be lower at 94% of the appraisal cost
estimates due to the depreciation of the Taka against US dollar.
20.   Key factors relating to achievement of project objectives. The most important
causes which delayed implementation of the SSFCDI component by 21/2 years and of FRW
component by one year were delays in completing pre-construction activities (land acquisition,
preparation of tender documents and award of contracts), inadequate budgetary allocations and
late release of counterpart funds, and belated procurement of vehicles and equipment. The
prolonged construction period and shortfalls in provision of counterpart funds also adversely
affected the implementation of O&M activities and very little progress has been made to ensure
proper arrangements for O&M of completed sub-projects. Ineffective supervision by BWDB
staff largely contributed to poor quality of construction works during the initial period of the
project. The extended litigation by some land owners to prevent handing over of land for
construction purposes reflected the inadequate land acquisition prices offered at the time, based
upon land values reported to tax authorities rather than market studies of prevailing land
values. Most of the above factors were subject to the control of either the Government or the
implementing agency (BWDB). However, some causes contributing to delays were beyond
their control. These included: (a) law and order problems, particularly during construction
seasons, preventing BWDB and contractors access to the work sites; and (b) the frequent
needs for GOB to divert counterpart funds allocated to the project for emergency repairs of
damages caused by monsoon and cyclonic storms.
21.   Performance of the Bank and Borrower. The performance of the Bank throughout
the project cycle was generally satisfactory taking account of the standards and practices of the
time. By today's standards, however, we would have required greater progress on



ix
preconstruction activities as a condition of Board presentation and might have considered
invoking sanctions for inadequate implementation performance. Although the poor standard of
civil works and implementation progress were commented on during supervision missions,
greater effort could have been made initially to suggest solutions and provide relevant technical
advice. Similarly, supervision missions could have been more proactive in ensuring adequate
arrangements for O&M of completed sub-projects. However, supervision and the OSS were
effective in highlighting problems in poor construction and inadequate maintenance, leading to
improvements in construction standards and a program of mitigation measures which are under
way. The Borrower's performance was initially unsatisfactory as the Borrower failed to resolve
serious issues which hampered pre-construction activities and availability of adequate
counterpart funding resulting in the delayed construction of works. However, towards the end
of project implementation, the performance of the Borrower on construction improved
markedly and the project was able to achieve most of its physical targets, particularly as far as
the larger coverage of the benefited areas. The performance on O&M, however, continued to
be unsatisfactory as little progress has so far been achieved.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
22.   Project outcome assessment. Although the project implementation was delayed and
the impact of the interventions to strengthen BWDB's institutional capacities has been variable,
the project has been successful in achieving its main objectives of increasing agricultural
production and fann incomes and rehabilitating infrastructures damaged or destroyed during
the 1987 and 1988 floods. While there is substantial risk of inadequate O&M, the high ERRs
leave margin for significant deterioration due to inadequate maintenance (para 15). Project
outcome is, therefore, rated as satisfactory. The key issue which needs urgent attention of
GOB and BWDB is to ensure that a viable and sustainable O&M system is in place to prevent
deterioration of completed sub-projects and the consequent reduction in production benefits
(see para 18). BWDB should: (a) complete 2 fully planned sub-projects and 9 appurtenant
structure sub-projects by June 1997 as planned (para. 9); (b) focus and carry out the training
program on improving the skills of BWDB field staff and beneficiaries in operational as well as
preventive and periodic maintenance activities at the field (more at site rather than in a
classroom); (c) continue the ongoing CBO&M program with necessary changes made to
conform to the program being implemented under the ongoing SRP and extend the
participatory O&M concepts to all SSFCDI sub-projects; (d) establish an O&M Cost Cell in
BWDB headquarters as recommended by CIDA consultants and implement the
recommendations related to O&M responsibilities and activities whilst SRP continues to work
on the introduction of the Management Information System for O&M; and (e) attend to and
provide adequately funds for repair of the defects identified in an Operation Status Survey
(OSS) carried out under the project (Table 7 of Part II). Follow-up work on the above is being
supervised in connection with the SRP.



x
23.   Lessons for future projects. The main lessons learned are:
(i)    Given the experience gained over the past decade, substantial progress
on preconstruction activities should be made a condition of Board
presentation. Otherwise it is unrealistic to plan completion of
construction in three years. BWDB's previous projects have taken at
least two years to resolve the pre-construction issues;
(ii)    Land acquisition compensations should be fair and based on market
studies of prevailing land values and the land acquisition system itself
ought to be carefully planned and the bureaucratic process should be
initiated before project appraisal or negotiations;
(iii)    While the situation has now improved, counterpart funding was initially
an issue impeding project implementation. More careful appraisal of
expected funding levels should be undertaken to adjust project size to
likely budget constraints;
(iv)    The Operation Status Survey (OSS), conducted on over 250 sub-
projects completed under the 1979 project and this project, indicated
that, with the exception of recently completed works, embankments
and hydraulic structures are in a state of disrepair due to faulty
operation and delayed maintenance. As agreed, GOB should take
urgent action, using its own funds, to remedy these defects;
(v)    Participatory O&M practices, demonstrated on a pilot basis under this
project, should be introduced on a wider scale.. IDA, GOB and
BWDB management should improve monitoring of progress of O&M
and timely remedies and actions taken to resolve emerging issues;
(vi)    New projects in the water and land development sub-sector, with the
exception of"'mergency"projects and projects to improve O&M
capacity, should not be taken up until GOB demonstrates that a
sustainable O&M system is in place for completed sub-projects;
(vii)   Immediate action should be taken to evaluate the training program
carried out under SRP, and its impact on improving the skills of
BWDB field staff and beneficiaries so as to suitably modify and
improve ongoing and future training programs;
(viii)   In evaluating proposed FCD sub-projects, greater attention should be
paid to the potential damage to fisheries and navigation, including
appropriate modifications in design or mitigating measures; and



xi
(ix)    While it is not clear when the increased upstream water use and its
effects on Harbang Chara should have become evident, supervision
missions should be alert to such unanticipated developments and
recommend appropriate adjustments in project designs.
M: SSFCD/BGDEV.doc
9/25/96



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
I.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) increase agricultural production and farm
incomes by supporting investments in small schemes designed for protection of agricultural lands against
floods, prevention of salt water intrusion, improved drainage, and provision of water for irrigation;
(ii) strengthen the capacity of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) to implement new
projects and to operate and maintain completed sub-projects; and (iii) restore flood protection, drainage,
irrigation and town protection infrastructures damnaged by the 1987 floods. (Remedying damage from
the 1988 floods was later added.)
2.     The project consisted of tvo components: (i) small scale flood control, drainage and irrigation
(SSFCDI); and (ii) flood rehabilitation works (FRW). The SSFCDI component included:
(i) construction of 15 fully planned sub-projects (requiring both earthworks and structures) covering
about 50,000 ha. and construction/rehabilitation of 200 appurtenant structure sub-projects (providing
water control structures where earthworks had been undertaken under the Food for Work (FFW)
programme) covering 200,000 ha nationwide, including provision of funds for operation and
mnaintenance (O&M) of completed sub-projects; (ii) training of BWDB staff and farmers involved in the
construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of sub-projects; (iii) provision of technical
assistance (TA) and training for planning, design and monitoring of construction of sub-projects, and
studies for the benchmark and evaluation of selected sub-projects, the modernization of BWDB's
financial management and accounting systems, and the establishment of a O&M Cost Cell at BWDB's
headquarters; and (iv) procurement of vehicles and special construction equipment. The FRW
component included: (i) reconstruction of about 470 km of embankmnent, I I km of canal lining and
associated earthworks, 37 km of protection works (revetments) and 119 structures; (ii) provision of TA
for design and construction monitoring of rehabilitation works and for mathematical modeling study of
river sections protected by the existing Brahmaputra Right Embankment; and (iii) procurement of
vehicles and equipment.
3.     Construction works of the SSFCDI component were scheduled for completion by June 1993,
and the FRW component by June 1991. The final two years of the project (FY94-FY95) were allowed
for O&M of the SSFCDI sub-projects. Total costs of the project, including physical and price
contingencies, were estimated at Tk 3.640 million (US$ 111 million). The IDA Credit of US$81.5
million was to finance about 76% of total project costs excluding taxes and duties. Co-financing of
US$9.6 million was to be provided by the Canadian lnternational Development Agency (CIDA) grant



2
funds for TA and the training component and various studies (as listed in iii of para 2). The remaining
proportion of the cost (US$ 19.9 million) was to be met by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) budget
allocations (US$15.9 million) and FFW (US$4.0 million) under the World Food Programme (WFP).
4.     Project changes after appraisal. During implementation, the number of SSFCDI sub-projects
was reduced from 215 to 120'. The number of fully planned new SSFCDI sub-projects was reduced
2
from 15 to 14, whilst the number of appurtenant structure sub-projects was reduced from 200 to 106
However, the anticipated benefited areas increased by 13% from about 250,000 ha to 282,654 ha.
5.     The CIDA funded TA and training and studies was scheduled to be completed by December 31,
1993 at the completion of the implementation component. Due to delays in construction, CIDA agreed
to extend its financing by 18 months to June 1994 to maintain consultancy support. Thereafter, the
extended consultant's services during the period July 1994 to December 1995 were financed by the IDA
Credit. CIDA continued to finance the community-based O&M program through March 31, 1995.
Savings of SDR4.18 million (US$5.85 million equivalent) from the IDA Credit were also diverted in
August 1994 for utilization under the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Priority Works Programme to
finance the reconstruction and rehabilitation of embankments in five polders damaged or destroyed by
the devastating cyclone of April 1991 (to be covered in a separate ICR).
6.     At appraisal, the FRW component was based on a preliminary damage report prepared by
BWDB, but the original work programme was changed during implementation following the completion
of the detailed surveys and to cover further damages caused by the 1988 floods. SDR 3.9 million were
allocated to the River Research Institute for the construction of laboratories and the purchase of
equipment. In addition, it was found necessary to conduct the mathematical modeling study of the
Meghna river for the preparation of a project to arrest b.ank erosion at critical locations. Following
completion of the Brahmaputra studies, the consultants contract was extended to include preparation of
the River Bank Protection Project (Credit 2791 -BD) identified under these studies.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.     As a follow-up phase to the first SSDFC Project and the first Flood Rehabilitation Project
(FRP, Cr. 1587-BD), the objectives and scope of the SSFCDI and FRW components were generally
clear and realistic. Their design and methodology followed the same approaches adopted in the previous
projects. The SSFCDI component was important to increase foodgrain production by supporting
investments in small schemes.. whilst the FRW component had the highest prioritv to repair the extensive
damages to FCD I infrastructure caused bv the 1987 floods, in order to minimize losses to the country's
economy.
8.     Given the satisfactorv construction skills of BWDB staff, the inclusion of the large number of
sub-projects was realistic. However, under the couitrv's prevailing funding constraints and given the
difficult procedures of land acquisition, the number of sub-projects exceeded of what could be handled
The official figures list 122 sub-projects. but this includes two sub-projects twice. The Srinagar Mawa
Bhagyakul (SMB) sub-project was approved first as a fully planned new sub-proiect and again as a
rehabilitation sub-project following flood damage. Similarly the Kabariabari sub-project was approved
first as an appurtenanit stictiure sub-project and later as a rehabilitation project following flooding.
2 The 106 appurtenant stmncture sub-projects incilide construction of new structures for 66
sub-projects and rehabilitationi of existing sitrctires for 40 sub-projects.



3
during the planned construction period. The objective of achieving a sustainable O&M system is
essential, but given the past poor perfomiance record of BWDB in undertaking the O&M works and the
complex socio-economic conditions of the benefited communities, expectations of what could be
achieved during the project period tumed out to be overly optimistic.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.     Physical objectives. At the Closing Date of December 31, 1995, physical achievements of the
SSFCDI component was about 98%. albeit 2 2years late. A total of 120 sub-projects were approved
for implementation (see Appendix 2, Tables I & 2), but 107 sub-projects were completed, as per
original plans, by the Closing Date (see Appendix 2, Tables 33). These included construction of 11 fully
planned new SSFCD1 sub-projects and construction/rehabilitation of 96 appurtenant structure sub-
projects. Civil works for 2 out of the remaining 13 sub-projects have now been substantially completed
with works for the remaining projects programmed to be completed by the end of FY97 with
Government's omvn funds (see Appendix 2. Table 5). Quality of earthworks was unsatisfactory during
the initial four years of the project, due to inadequate supervision by BWDB management and field
staff. Quality iniproved substantiallv during the later part of project implementation. An Operational
Status Survey (OSS) in 1994 (financed by CIDA) also identified the need for additional minor
structures. Remaining minor structures for 20 subprojects (Appendix 2 Table 6) are scheduled for
completion during FY97 and FY98. Meanwhile these subprojects are considered operable but not at full
potential. IDA is continuing to supervise the adequacy of the mitigation measures identified in the OSS
as part of its supervision of the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP. Cr. 2099-BD). Additional
funds to complete the remaining works are estimated at Tk 126.2 million, including about 1,350 tons of
wheat allocation from WFP. Despite 44% reduction in the total number of sub-projects from 215 as
planned at appraisal to 120 subsequently approved for implementation (para. 4), the total benefited areas
are estimated to have increased by 13% from about 250.000 ha to 282,654 ha.
10.    Despite a delay of one year. the implementation of the FRW component was satisfactory and its
physical achievements substantially surpassed the appraisal targets. The rehabilitation works
commenced in FY89 and were completed by the end of FY92. About 485 km of embankments xvere
reconstructed. 28 km of canal linings were replaced or repaired, 102 km new protective works
constructed, and 360 hvdraulic structures were replaced or repaired. Quality of earthwvorks was poor
during the initial period, but improved substantiallv thereafter.
I.    Objectives of sector policies. The main concems have been funding and implementation of
O&M for completed sub-projects and cost recovery policy for gravity irrigation services. The
achievement in O&M activities has so far been unsatisfactory in that no viable and sustainable system
was in place at the end of the project. In addition, only a very limited scale of the periodic maintenance
of some completed sub-projects was carried out towvards the end of project implementation but this could
not attain the target planned , due to inadequate budgetary allocations and lack of BWDB commitment to
utilize available funds for O&M.
12.    Cost recovery policies over the last decade have not had sufficient impact in the formulation of a
sustainable system. Although a policy was in place in the early 1970s, recoveries wvere very poor. The
first attempt at improving the position was made under the BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr. 1467-
3 Table 3 lists 109 subprojects as completed incltuding 2 completed as originally planned
but not completed as rehabilitationi projects. See footnote 1.



4
BD). The SAR for Credit 1 870-BD noted that intended collection could not be achieved due to
(i) shortage of assessment and collection staff and overly complex assessment procedures; and (ii) the
irregular and insufficient supply of water under many of the irrigation projects. Under SSFCDI attempts
were made to improve cost recovery, starting with 100,000 ha of selected projects where the irrigation
services were effective. In addition, proposals were to be prepared for improving assessment and
collection procedures and improving irrigation services in other BWDB projects. Progress was delayed
initially by the preoccupation of BWDB senior staff with the problems caused by the imprecedented
floods of 1987 and 1988. While the targeted 100% cost recovery by 1995 was not achieved, in 11
prescribed projects the actual collection has improved markedly from 5% of the assessed O&M costs in
FY92 to 48% in FY95. Meanwhile a program to improve cost recovery, using simplified systems, is
being implemented under the SRP. Performance remains unsatisfactory, but attempts to improve cost
recovery are in process.
13.    Institutional development objectives. The main means of achieving the institutional
development objectives was to improve the capacity of BWDB to implement new projects and to operate
and maintain completed sub-projects, and to establish a sustainable O&M system. To this end, training
was provided to enhance BWDB's skills in planning and design of engineering works and O&M,
including training of beneficiaries. In addition, detailed guidelines to assist BWDB in establishing a
sustainable O&M system was included in the SAR. Studies were also provided for the establishment of
an O&M Cost Cell at BWDB's headquarters, the introduction of an improved financial management and
accounting system anud a river modeling study.
14.    The Canadian Technical Unit (CTU) was responsible for the training activities. The activities
were carried out regularly during the project period and generally conformed to the SAR guidelines. The
training programme was focused mainly on planning, design and construction. In addition, courses were
also conducted on management where BWDB engineers, agronomists and accounting staff participated.
A CIDA evaluation study carried out in March 1992, concluded that whilst all the courses served a
useful purpose, some of the courses, particularly the field workshops, were of short duration and scope
of information was too extensive to be readily assimilated. One of the major defects of the training
programme was the failure of BWDB to treat the training of BWDB's field staff and beneficiaries in
O&M as a priority activity. The desk review of the ICR mission indicated that the O&M training
progranmmes were limited to the fanner leaders of the pilot sub-projects where the Community-Based
O&M programme (CBO&M) (see para. 16 below) was being implemented.
15.    BWDB's Training Directorate also carried out in November 1995 a training programme in the
Mymensing, Khishorgonj & Jamalpur districts where beneficiaries participated, but no evaluation report
was available. However, the ICR mission's field visit observed that with the exception of operating
gates, beneficiaries have no clue on preventive maintenance works.
16.    The O&M Cost Cell Nvas to be a critical tool to assist the BWDB's management and its staff to
identifv O&M activities specific to sub-projects, prepare accurate budgets and plans for the sequence
and frequency of O&M activities. Althouglh the O&M Cost Cell study was satisfactorily completed, the
O&M Cost Cell has never been established at BWDB's headquarters nor was a viable and sustainable
O&M system in place at the end of the project. In addition, even the periodic maintenance of completed
sub-projects was being carried out on a very limited scale and fell well short of the target planned due to
limited budgetary allocations and insufficient priority given to utilization of available funds for O&M.
The CBO&M progranime, introduced on a pilot basis during the latter period of the project to ensure
effective participation of the benefited communities in O&M activities and create an atmosphere of
ownership of the sub-project works, has shown some promise and is expected to be a successful



5
programme if it is continued. BWDB has approved Guidelines for People's Participation which provide
for replication of such community participation on a much wider scale to cover all the sub-projects.
While the success of this wider effort will depend inter-alia on fund availability and training of staff in
implementing participatory O&M methods, the pilot program appears to have been successful in
demonstrating improved O&M methods which are now being adopted on a wider scale.
17.    All the other studies included under the project (see Table 7 of Part II) were completed, although
with a delay of over two years. The vital recommendations of the Modernized Financial Management
and Accounting System Study funded by CIDA was finally accepted and adopted by BWDB for
implementation on a nationvide basis during 1994. Twenty-five Regional Accounting Centres have
been established and the improved accounting systems have been put into operation on a manual basis.
The initial steps for conversion to a computerized svstem and further improvement in the accounting
systems are being supported by IDA Riverbank Protection Project (Credit 2791-BD) while arrangements
are under way for provision of CIDA financing for a larger scale of operation to improve financial
management. The Mathematical Modeling study of the Brahmaputra river culminated in the preparation
of the River Bank Protection Project wlhich is currently under implementation. Proposals for a River
Bank Protection Project for Meghna resulting from a similar study, have not materialized due to
questions concerning technical and economic viability. The Project Delivery System (PDS) Study, to
improve the tendering process and contract management, was initiated during the implementation period
and completed in FY92, and some of the recommendations are now being imnplemented after substantial
delay.
18.    Economic impact. At appraisal. the estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) of the six
appraised fully plained SSFCDI sub-projects, including Singimari Beef. Laithi River, Srinagar Mawa
Bhagyakul (SMB), Polder 55/2A. Chandpur Irrigation Extension (CIP) and Harbang Chara, ranged
from 19% to 40%, and averaged at 31% for both the combined six appraised fully planied SSFCDI
sub-projects and the SSFCDI component as a wviole.
19.    The ERRs re-estimated at project completion for five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects
(excluding the Harbang Chara sub-project) range from 12.5% to 37.4% (see Appendix 3. Tables 3540)
compared to 26%/o40% estimated at appraisal. The lower ERRs are due mainly to delayed accrual of
project benefits resulting from about 2-4 vears' delays in completion of construction. lower incremental
cropping intensities (SMB sub-project) and incremental crop yields (CIP and SMB sub-projects), and
substantially higher prices of unskilled labor and draft animals. Due to insufficient irrigation water
resulting in 30% lower incremental cropping intensities and 60% lower incremental crop yields, the re-
estimated ERR of the Harbang Chara sub-project is low at only 2.4% compared to 19.4% estimated at
appraisal. (It is reported that decreased water availability is due primarily to unaniticipated increased use
by upstream famiers. It is not clear at present wvheni this should have become evident, or wilether the
project design could have been usefully adjusted at that time.) The re-estimated ERRs are 22.8% for the
combined six appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects (Appendix 3, Table 41) compared to 31%
estimated at appraisal. Using the average cropping intensities and crop yields of the six fully planned
SSFCDI sub-projects, the re-estimated ERR of the SSFCDI component covering 120 sub-projects is
37.8% (Appendix 3. Table 42). The higher ERR for the SSFCDI component is due to the substantial
increases in the benefited areas (I13%) and the early accrual of project benefits resulting from the early
completion of sub-projects. particularly the completioni of the appurtenant sub-projects from FY89
onwards (Appenidix 3. Table 34). Underlivng assuLm1ptions about costs and benefits are given in Table 9
of Part I1 and Appendix 3.



6
20.    Sensitivity analysis. A viable and sustainable O&M system is presently not in place. Unless
steps are taken to ensure proper O&M of completed works, the potential full production benefits would
not be sustained. A lack of O&M plans. inadequate O&M funds, inability of BWDB and beneficiaries
to carry out regular O&M activities or a combination of these activities would result in the deterioration
of infrastructures of sub-projects and consequently reduce the cropped areas and production of mainly
HYV paddy. The sensitivity analysis carried out by the ICR mission indicates that 30% reduction in the
cropped areas of HYV paddy would result in 10%-25% decreases in the production benefits and would
lower the ERRs of the five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects by 1%-/4%, whilst the ERR of the
Harbang Chara sub-project would be negative (Appendix 3, Tables 43-48). An average of 15%
reduction in production benefits would lower the re-estimated ERR of the combined six fully planned
SSFCDI sub-projects by 1% (Appendix 3, Table 49) and of the SSFCDI component by 6% (Appendix
3, Table 50). The sensitivity analysis also indicates that ERRs are insensitive to substantial reduction in
production benefits. Except the Harbang Chara and the SMB sub-projects, ERRs of the four fully
planned sub-projects, the combined six fully planned FCDI sub-projects and the SSFCDI component are
still favorable at 150/o%36%, 21.5% and 31.8% respectively.
21.    Environmental impact. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the sub-projects would have a mix
of environmental effects whose net effect would be positive though not readily quantifiable. The sub-
projects were taken up for implementation after discussions and reaching consensus with beneficiaries.
With the exception of one sub-project where navigationi issues were faced during implementation,
construction continuled without interruption. A mitigation survey conducted towards the end of the
project period indicated a positive impact on agricultural production in all sub-projects, whilst adverse
effects on fisheries and navigation wvere found significant in a substantial number of cases.
22.    The Consultants conducted a study over a period of two months in FY95 to determine the effect
on crop production. fisheries, navigation, and drainage in 1224 sub-projects. The study showed a
positive impact on crop production5 in all SSFCDI sub-projects. Impact of fisheries was positive in 12
sub-projects, negative in 48 and neutral in 62 sub-projects. Impact on navigation was positive in 3 sub-
projects, negative in 10 and neutral in 109 sub-projects. Impact on drainage was positive in 61 sub-
projects and neutral in 25 sub-projects, whilst mitigation measures, mainly for resolving localized
drainage and irrigation problems, vere required in 36 sub-projects. Given the short duration of the
study, the findings inclusive of costing are indicative of the existing situation. A more detailed study
should be carried out over a longer period to deterniinle precisely the extent of the negative effects and to
identify suitable mitigation measures. GOB has requested funding for the mitigating measures under the
ongoing SRP. IDA has agreed in principle for works which can be completed prior to the December 31,
1997 Closing Date. BWDB is finalizing consultancy support for development of fisheries and
navigation mitigation plans. This work is being supervised under SRP.
23.    Farm incomes. The impact of the project on farm incomes has been re-estimated for the six
fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects (Para. 18) on one-hectare owner-operator models as shown in
Appendix 3, Tables 19-24. Annual net fann incomes at full development are re-estimated to increase by
330/o-61%% from about Tk 13,159-Tk 17.972 in Without Project (WOP) to T 17.540-Tk 28.995 in
With Project (WP) for four FCD sub-projects6, and by 12/o 15// from Tk 38.707-T  41,619 inWOP
4 The consultaints fugures counted two subprojects twice. See footnote 1.
5 In 29 fully planncd and appurtenant sub-projects. crop production increased by 77%.
6 Singiniari Beel. Laithi River. Srinagar Mawa Bhagyakul and Polder 55/2A.



7
to Tk 43,366-Tk 47,893 in WP for the two irrigation sub-projects7. The re-estimated incremental
annual net famn incomes are Tk 4,380-Tk 11,000, reflecting real decreases of 40/6-50% below the
appraisal estimates. As noted earlier (para. 19), the lower incremental cropping intensities and crop
yields and substantial increases in prices of hired labor and draft animals are the factors contributing to
lower incremental farm incomes than estimated at appraisal.
C. MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
24.   Implementation Record and Delays. Project implementation, in particular of the SSFCDI
component, suffered from delays right from the beginning. Initially, it took six months more than
planned for the project to be effective due mainly to the delay in the signing of the co-financing
agreements between GOB and CIDA. Subsequently, a number of factors, notably inability to complete
pre-construction activities in time, shortage of counterpart funds and poor management, delayed
implementation of FRW component by one year and of SSFCDI component by 21/2 years. Civil works
of all sub-projects under the SSFCDI component vere scheduled to be completed in FY93. Instead
60% of sub-projects were completed after FY93, i.e., during the period originally earmarked for
financing of O&M until two years after completion of the construction works. A sustainable O&M
systemn was not in place at the end of the project. At the Credit Closing Date of December 31, 1995, 13
sub-projects remained incomplete. With GOB's own financing, 2 additional sub-projects have now been
completed and the remaining 11 plus minor structures for 20 sub-projects are scheduled for completion
in FY97. The most important causes which hampered project implementation are discussed below.
25.    Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. These contributed to
implementation delays and included: (a) law and order problems, particularly during construction
seasons, preventing BWDB and contractors access to the work sites; and (b) the frequent needs for GOB
to divert counterpart funds allocated to the project for emergency repairs of damage caused by monsoon
and cyclonic stormns.
26.    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Delays, particularly during the initial
construction years of the SSFCDI component, were due to insufficient counterpart funding, reduction in
allocations under the Annual Development Programme (ADP) and untimely releases of these funds, and
late procurement of vehicles and equipment. GOB was also partially responsible for the poor
implementation of O&M activities during the project period as allocation of funds for this purpose was
inadequate. The extended litigation of some landowners to prevent handing over of land for construction
purposes reflected the inadequate land acquisition prices offered at the time, based upon land values
reported to tax authorities rather than market studies of prevailing land values.
27.    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. BWDB with extensive
assistance from project consultants had the overall responsibilities to implement the project. The
inability of BWDB to ensure timelv completion of pre-construction activities such as the design of new
appurtenant structures and those requiring rehabilitation, foundation investigations, preparation of tender
documents and contract awards, and land acquisition inordinately delayed subsequent construction of
works. In addition, changes in definition and scope of works after completion of planning and designs
adversely affected project implementationi. Poor qualitv of works completed during the initial period of
the project was due to ineffective supervision bv BWDB field staff. It was also within the capability of
7 Chandpur Gravitv Irrigation Extensioni Project and Harbang Chara sub-project.



8
BWDB and consultants to implement an O&M system following the SAR guidelines, but monitoring the
implementation of O&M activities at BWDB's management level was ineffective. Further, training
imparted under the project was not focused on improving the skills of BWDB field staff and
beneficiaries in O&M. As a result, very little progress has so far been made to ensure proper O&M of
completed sub-projects. Studies to improve BWDB's institutional capacity funded by CIDA were also
delayed and the implementation of recommendations were not given sufficient attention.
28.    Actual project cost and financing. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of
originally estimated project costs and current estimates of final costs8. Initially, it was estimated that
construction would be completed by FY93. Current estimates indicate that final construction and
rehabilitation of civil works at 11 sub-projects and additional minor structures required for some 20 sub-
projects are not likely to be completed until the end of FY97 although the Credit Closing Date was
December 31, 1995. When allowance is made for costs to complete the remaining civil works and
additional minor structures, the final costs of the project are now estimated at Tk 3,834 million
(US$104.4 million), representing only 5% cost ovemin over the original cost estimates in Taka terms.
The substantial increases in the quantitv of earthworks and structures were fully offset by the 43%
reduction in the number of sub-prolects from 215 as planned at appraisal to 120 as subsequently
approved for implementation (para. 4). Expressed in US dollars, the final project costs would be lower
at 94% of the appraisal cost estimates due to the depreciation of the Taka against US dollar.
29.    Despite implementation delays, disbursements have been satisfactorv as shown in Table 4 of
Part II. The final estimates indicate that the IDA Credit would be able to finance 76% of the final
project costs compared to 73% envisaged at appraisal. Wheat allocation under FFW increased
substantially from 4% to 10% of the final project costs. reducing GOB's budget allocations from 14% to
4%. whilst CIDA grant funids increased slightly from 9% to 10%.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.    A key requirement for sustainability is a steady O&M regime with a reliable source of funding.
As noted earlier (paras. 11 and 16), the present O&M approach is ineffective. Changes are necessary in
the organizational set up of BWDB, planning and funding of O&M activities as well as supervision by
all levels of BWDB's staff. The role of BWDB's management at field level and beneficiaries should also
be clearly defined. The CBO&M programme introduced on a pilot basis under the project (para. 16)
should be continued and replicated to cover all sub-projects to ensure effective participation of the
benefited commUnity in O&M activities and create an atmosphere of ownership of the sub-project
works. Initial steps for such replication have been taken with the adoption of Peoples Participation
Guidelines and training of staff in participatory O&M methods. However, progress in adopting
participatory methods, posting appropriate staff. and assisting to form beneficiary groups has been
slower than anticipated. Meanwhile. to ensure that infrastructures of sub-projects are operational,
adequate funds for preventive and periodic maintenanice should be provided. BWDB field staff should
give technical guidance to sluice committees in operational activities, and BWDB management at the
Zonal and Circle level should ensure that field staff carry out their responsibilities. Unless the above
actions are taken and an effective O&M svstem is firmily in position, the sustainability of project works
would be uncertain. Follow-up work on the above issues is continuing as part of supervision of SRP.
8 Excluding funds reallocated to the Coastal Embalknient Priority Works Program (para 5) for
rehabilitafion of embankiinents damaged in the April 1991 cyclone.



9
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
31.    The project was prepared following the experience gained under the first SSDFC Project. The
Bank reviewed the preparation works which were being carried out by BWDB and CIDA funded
consultants. IDA and CIDA gave useful recommendations to BWDB to broaden the scope to include an
improved O&M programme, a project managemnent system to ensure the effective imnplementation of
project works, and studies to improve the capacity of BWDB to improve the financial management.
Finally, the need for an effective planning and design tool for improving the banks of major rivers was
included in the project at the suggestion of IDA. IDA also prepared the FRW component based on data
supplied by the field divisions of BWDB after the devastation caused by the 1987 floods.
Appraisal
32.    A thorough appraisal was carried out by a joint IDA/CIDA team comprising of five specialists
in the fields relevant to the project activities. During the appraisal period and at the request of GOB, the
FRW component to repair damages caused by the 1987 floods was added to the project. A post-
appraisal mission consisting of two specialists was fielded to review GOB's proposals for the
rehabilitation of infrastructures damaged by the 1987 floods. With hindsight, however, the number of
SSFCDI sub-projects exceeded what could be handled during the planned construction period of three
years. In the future, substantial progress on preconstruction activities should be required as a condition
of Board presentation. The objective of achieving a sustainable O&M system was essential but
estimates of what could be accomplished during the project period were optimistic. For the future, no
new water development projects should be undertaken, other than "emergencv" projects and projects to
improve O&M capacity, until GOB demonstrates that a sustainable O&M system is in place for
completed sub-projects.
Supervision
33.    The performance of supervision missions throughout the project period was generally
satisfactory taking account of the standards and practices of the time. By today's standards, however,
we might have considered invoking sanctions for inadequate implementation performance. Supervision
missions were conducted twice a year with the exception of two years towards the end of project
implementation when only one supervision was carried out due to law and order problems. Initially, the
missions identified poor quality of earthworks and concrete works and finishes in hvdraulic structures.
Due to the insistence of the supervision missions and technical advice given, quality of work improved.
The supervision missions regularly commented on the poor standard of work in the manufacture and
installation of gates carried out by the Directorate of Mechanical Equipment (DME) of BWDB and the
inordinate delays in completing orders placed with the DME. The missions also commented on the
inappropriate procurement procedures followed in the issue of work orders to the DME. Although
pressure was applied by the missions with threats of actions such as suspension of disbursements and
resorting to sanctions allowed in the DCA, the situation did not improve and IDA did not invoke
sanctions.



10
34.    Successive supervision missions expressed concern at the continued poor progress of
construction and the lack of progress in initiating an effective programme of preventive and periodic
maintenance in completed sub-projects and completed items of work at the on-going sub-projects under
the SSFCDI component. The concerns were repeated at the wrap-up meetings held at the Ministry of
Water Resources, but the situation on both issues remained static up to FY93. Whilst the supervision
missions continued pressure, the establishment of a sustainable O&M system did not materialize. The
supervision missions could have been more pro-active in giving appropriate technical advice to arrest in
time the unsatisfactory progress and in ensuring adequate arrangements for the O&M of sub-projects.
It might have been useful to refuse to authorize tenders for new sub-projects until adequate progress had
been made in initiating O&M work on completed sub-projects. Given the poor state of maintenance,
IDA was instrumental in getting BWDB to initiate an Operational Status Survey (OSS) for the
completed sub-projects, including those completed under the first SSDFC project. The survey identified
defects due to delayed maintenance and sub-standard operations by the sluice committees. BWDB has
agreed to finance mitigation measures, which are being supervised under SRP.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
35.    The SSFCDI componenit was prepared by BWDB and consultants during the implementation of
the first project. As advised by IDA, the scope was broadened to include irrigation and new FCDI sub-
projects, improved O&M. relevant studies for institutional development, and a project management
system to ensure effective implementation. BWDB was helpful in supplying preliniinary flood damage
report to IDA for the formulation of the FRW component
Implementation
36.    The implementation perfomiance of the Borrower and the implementing agency (BWDB) was
unsatisfactory, although significant improvements occurred in the last years of implementation. During
the initial four years the Borrower failed to resolve senrous issues which hampered pre-construction
activities (para. 27) and availability of adequate counterpart funding resulting in the delayed construction
of works. As a result, completion of sub-projects was limited to only 40 appurtenant structure sub-
projects out of a total target of 200 sub-projects. whilst none of the 15 fully planned sub-projects was
completed. However, with the improvement in counterpart funding, construction speeded up and the
majority of sub-projects were completed after FY93.
37.    The performance on O&M, however, continued to be unsatisfactory as little progress has so far
been achieved. Due to delayed construction and lack of attention in BWDB, no preventive maintenance
wvas carried out during project implementation, wvhilst only a limited scale of the periodic maintenance
was carried out three years after completion of sub-projects when the defects were identified in the OSS
report. The repairs were also deficient due to budgetary restrictions. As a result, no viable and
sustainable O&M system was in place at the end of the project. However, the CBO&M programme
was introduced on a pilot basis in FY93. and 7 out of 107 completed sub-projects were included in the
programme at the end of the project. The initial indications are that beneficiaries have been showing an
awareness of the need of an effective mainteniance programme to be carried out jointly by themselves and
BWDB. However. the pilot programme in these 7 sub-projects has not reached a stage where part of the



I1
responsibilities could be transferred to the benefited communities. Given the promising approach of the
CBO&M, the pilot programme should continue as a basis for planned extension of participatory O&M
to all completed SSFCDI sub-projects.
38.    Compliance with covenants. Complialnce with covenants was partial. GOB did not provide
adequate funds for construction during the initial project period, and failed to provide adequate funds for
O&M. The O&M Cost Cell was not established in BWDB. The covenanted targets for cost recovery
were not achieved, although some progress was made. The issue is now being pursued under the
Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) (Credit 2099-BD). The covenants for studies were fulfilled with
one to two years delay. The audit reports wvere always delayed by about 9 months.
39.    Consultants performance. The consultants of the CTU performed satisfactorily in their pre-
construction and construction works as well as monitoring. They regularly identified issues impeding
progress, and were instrumental in identifying defective works and ensuring that remedial measures were
taken. However, their perfomiance on O&M was hamnpered by lack of BWDB interest. Whilst their
efforts to evolve a system even at a later stage wvere commendable, their assistance to BWDB in the
initial approach to involve beneficiaries at the pre-construction phase, and the preparation of operational
plans and O&M manuals according to the accepted guidelines reflected the difficulty of working in these
areas in the absence of BWDB commitmenit to O&M.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.    Although the project implemenetationi was delayed and the impact of the interventions to
strengthen BWDB's institutioiial capacities has been variable, the project has been successful in
achieving its main objectives of increasing agricultural production and farn incomes and rehabilitating
infrastructures damaged or destroyed during the 1987 and 1988 floods. The high ERRs leave margin for
significant deterioration due to the risk of inadequate maintenance. Project outcome is, therefore, rated
as satisfactory. However, the outcome of the BWDB's institutional development was less than
satisfactory and sustainabilitv is uncertain.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.    The key issues w\hich need the urgent attention of GOB and BWDB is to ensure that a viable
and sustainable O&M svstem is in place to prevent deterioration of completed sub-projects and the
consequent reduction in production benefits (see para. 20). BWDB should: (a) complete 2 fully planned
sub-projects and 9 appurteniant stmicture sub-projects (para. 9); (b) focus and carry out the training
progranime on improving the skills of BWDB field staff and beneficiaries in operational as well as
preventive and periodic mainteniarnce activities at the field (more at site rather than in a classroom);
(c) continue the on-going CBO&M progranmmie xvith necessary changes made to confonn to the
programme being implemented tnder the on-going SRP and extend participatory O&M methods to all
completed SSFCDI sub-projects; (d) establish an O&M Cost Cell in BWDB headquarters as
recommended by CIDA consultanits and implemenit the recommendations related to O&M
responsibilities and activities Nvlhilst SRP continues to work on the introduction of the Management
Infonnationi System for O&M. and (e) attend to and provide adequate funds for the repair of defects
identified in the OSS carried out under the project. including appropriate mitigation measures for damage
to fisheries and navigation (Table 7 of Part II). Follow-up work on the above is being supervised in
connection with the SRP.



12
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.    The main lessons leamed during project implementation are as follows:
(i)   Given the experience gained over the past decade, substantial progress on
preconstruction activities should be made a condition of Board presentation.
Othenvise it is unrealistic to plan completion of construction in three years.
BWDB's previous projects have taken at least two years to resolve the pre-
construction issues;
(ii)   Land acquisition compensations should be fair and based on market studies of
prevailing land values and the land acquisition system itself ought to be carefully
planned and the bureaucratic process should be initiated before project appraisal or
negotiations;
(iii)  Wlhile the situation has now improved, counterpart funding was initially an issue
impeding project implemilentation. More careful appraisal of expected funding
levels should be undertaken to adjust project size to likely budget constraints;
(iv) An Operation Status Survey (OSS), conducted on over 250 sub-projects
completed under the 1979 project and this project, indicated that, with the
exception of recently completed works, embankments and hydraulic structures are
in a state of disrepair due to faulty operation and delayed maintenance. As agreed,
GOB should take urgenit action. using its own funds, to remedy these defects;
(v)   Participatory O&M practices, demonstrated on a pilot basis under this project,
should be introduced on a wvider scale.. IDA, GOB and BWDB management
should improve monitoriig of progress of O&M  and timely remedies and actions
taken to resolve emerging issues;
(vi)  New projects in the water and land development sub-sector. with the exception of
'emergencv "projects and projects to improve O&M capacity, should not be taken
up until GOB demonstrates that a sustainable O&M system is in place for
completed sub-projects:
(vii) Immediate action should be taken to evaluate the training programme carried out
under SRP, and its impact on improving the skills of BWDB field staff and
beneficiaries so as to suitably modify and improve ongoing and future training
programmes:
(viii) In evaluating proposed FCD subprojects, greater attention should be paid to the
potential darnage to fisheries and navigation, including appropriate modifications
in design or mitigating measures: and
(ix)  While it is not clear when the increased upstream water use and its effects on
Harbang Chara should have become evident, supervision missions should be alert
to such unanticipated developments and recommend appropriate adjustments in
project designs.



13
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial    Partial   Negli-ible Not Applicable
Macro policies                       )                      (            L
Sector policies                    2                                    7
Financial objectives              D             g          F             x
Institutional development                        I  E                   F L
Physical objectives               Fxl         F                 
Povertv reduction                 E            x           F             0
Gender issues                     F             z                       [
Other social objectives                       F                         Fx
Envirounental objectives                                                F  ,7
Public sector management           g            1           0      
Private sector development         D            z          E             x
Other (specify)                   7           F            F            F
B. Proiect suslainabilith         Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. IDA performanac             satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Identificatioll n                           Fx'
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                       E  
Supervision                                  D            - 



14
Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactorv   Satisfactoiy   Deficient
Preparation                        t           F3             M
Implementation                   F1l a                         lx
Covenant compliance              E             F              E
Operation (if applicable)          E            z             E
Highly'                                      High]y
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactorv   Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
1E~J



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loanvcredit title                                   Purpose                    Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Chandpur Irrigation Project                               provision of flood control, drainage and  1972       completed
(Cr. 340-BD)                                                inrigation facilities, including primary
pumping
2. Drainage & Flood Control Project I                         provision of flood control and drainage  1978       completed
(Cr. 864-BD)                                                (FCD) to 3 medium size schemes
3. Drainage & Flood Control Project 11                       provision of FCD to 3 medium size         1981       completed
(Cr. 1184-BD)                                               schemiles
4. Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project              construction of appurtenant structures    1979       completed
(Cr. 955-BD)                                                nationwide
5. BWDB Small Schemes Project                                provision of FCDI to small schemes        1985       completed
(Cr. 1467-BD)                                               nationwide
6. Flood Rehabilitation Project I                            rehabilitation of schemes damaged by      1985       completed
(Cr. 1587-BD)                                               the 1984 floods
7. Third Flood Control. Drainage & Irrigalion (FCDI) Project  provision of FCDI to 3 medium size       1985       completed
(Cr. 1591-BD)                                                scheliles
8. Fourth Flood Control & Draiiage Project                   provision of FCD to one medium size       1987       completed
(Cr. 1784-BD)                                               scheme
9. Flood Rehabilitationi Project 11                          rehabilitationi of schemes damaged by     1988       completed
(Cr. 1876-BD)                                               the 1988 floods
10. Flood Rehabilitation Project Ill                         rehabilitationi of schemes damaged by    1989        completed
(Cr. 2048-BD)                                              the 1989 floods
Followivng operations
1. BWDB System Rehabilitation Project                        rehabilitation of BWDB operational       1990        on-going
(Cr. 2099-BD)                                               schemes and improved O&M
2. Coastal Embankmneit Rehabiilitationi Project              rehabilitation of costal embankment       1995       on-going
(Cr. 2638-BD)                                               polders, including afforestation and
improved O&M
3. River Bank Protection Project                             protection measures to the right bank of  1995       on-going
(Cr. 2791 -13D)                                             Brahmaputra river to protect Serajganj
town and agricultural areas.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                [      Date planned         |          latest estimate
Identification                                                                    Late 1985
Preparation                                                                        1986/1987
Pre-appraisal                                                                      March 1987
Appraisal                                                                         May 1987
Post-appraisal b'                                                                  October 1987
Negotiations                                                                       December 1987
Board presentation_                                                                January 26, 1988
Signing                                                                           February 19, 1988
Effectiveness                                          May 19, 1988                November 4, 1988-
Project completion                                     June 30, 1993              December 31, 1995
Credit closing                                         December 31, 1995          December 31, 1995
'   BWDB staif and consultants in constiltaltioni witli WFP.
t'   Assessmenit of 1987 flood damages.
"   After tiree extensions.
C Coipletioni of civil works planuied JLimc 30. 1993. Credit intended to finance O&M activities until Jtune 30. 1995.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY88    FY89   FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimatc        1o.00 '       25.80      47.80       61.90      71.40    77.90       80.10    81.20        81.50
Revised Estimate '                                                                                        80.20      80.50
Actual/final                     -      21.98      40.78       46.18      52.97    62.98       67.10    76.00        79.10
estimate E/
Actual as %of                    -         85         85          75         74         81         84        95         98
estimate
Including atithofized allocations of LUS$4.00 millioni for Special Accounit for SSFCDI works and lIS$6.00. million for Special Account for
FRW.
Total amount ol Credit allocated to the project was reduced from SDR61.70 million (at that time equivalent to US$81.50 million) to
SDR57.52 millioni (cunenitly USS80.50 millioll equivalelit) when savings of SDR4.18 million (US$5.85 million equivalent) were diverted in
August 1994 lbr the Coastal Embankment Rehahilitation/Priority Works Progranme.
Excluding fiuds reallocated to the Priority Works Program.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implemenitalion indicators in
SARJPresident's Report                Estimated (SAR)            Actual/ICR
estimate
A. SSFCDJ Works:
(i) fully planned sub-projects
- no. of sub-projects                                           15                       11
- benefitted area (ha)                                     50,000                   52,812
(ii) appurtenanit struclture sub-projects
- no. of sub-projects                                         200                      109
- benefitied area (ha)                                   200.000                  229,842
(iii) Tolal no. of sub-projects                               215                    120 al
Total bencfitted area (lha)                          250.000                  282.654
B. FRW:
- reconstruction of embanikmeiit (kim)                        470                      485
- canal lininig (kim)                                           11                      28
- protection vorks (kim)                                        37                     102
- structures (no.)                                            119                      360
'  Oflicial Government figures show 122 sub-projects. but this cotnts two sub-projects twice, once as originally
planned and a second time as rehabilitation sub-projects aller floods.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I1. Key operaling indicators in
SARlPresident's Report                                             Estimated                                    Actual
1. O&M of completed facilities
(a) finding durinig project period                  one year alter completion of each sub-     limited and delayed utilization of available
project                                    funds
(b) commencement                                            - do -                             no preventive maintenance was carried out,
except limited periodic maintenance
(c) preparation of operational and O&M              finalization durinig operational phase during   finalized at the end of December 1995. No
manuals                                            the interim period before handing over to   responsibilities and associated costs to
beneficiaries                              beneficiaries were defined and estimated.
(d) finalization of responsibilities of            finalization during construction phase      Not fiiuv complied with. All subprojects
GOB and betieficiaries                                                                         were not included in the OSS and repairs to
defects have still to be done.
(e) handing over to benelici;aries                  fimalizationt on completioni of activities  not yet done
listed tinder 2 below
2. Sub-projects are consider-ed to be                                                          The constiltants' review did not indicate any
operational whieni:                                                                            action. However. it is presumed that the
activitv was not carried out
(a) deficiencies in designs or                      dLiring constnictiont phase
constniction are identified and conrected
(b) responsibilities have been                      finalization before the end of the
clearly defined and O&NI                            construction phase
procedures are established
(c) fanniers and local staff ol (;OB                durinig the coastruction phase and before
siUpport agenicies have been indoilied about lhe    fittal hIanding over to beneficiaries
improved productioni practices intde possible by
project fitcilities
IL.  Modified indicators for fuitiure operation                                                No modification to the date. However, the
O&M activities are now to be carried out
uLider SRP.



19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defrined
Study                   at appraisal/redefined                       Status                       Impact of study
Benchmark and lmpact  to evaluate impact on agricultural productioni benchmark surveys (5 sub-projects  used as basis for assessment of
Evaluation Studies     and faniers' incomes                   completed in 1992, 5 sub-projects in   project impact and farmers' incomes
1993 and 10 sub-projects in 1995.
Impact evaluation studies (5 sub-
projects completed in 1992, 5 sub-
projects in 1993 and 10 sub-projects in
1995.
crop production surveys conducted by   assessment of impact on crop
BWDB (first batch of 57 sub-projects  production and environment.
and second batch of 24 sub-projects
completed in 1995, and third batch of 34
sub-projects expected to be completed
within FY96
second impact evaluation surveys
completed in FY95, and report is under
preparation
'lodemization of                                              to improve the accounting system   Study completed in 1992, but
WDB`s Financial                                                                                  BWDB and MOWR did not accept
lanagement and                                                                                   the consultants's recommendations.
Accounting System                                                                                 Implementation commenced in
FY95.
&M Cost Cell         The cell established at BWDB headquarter  the study has been completed. The cell  Follow up work is now been
would niaintain a computerized register of up- lias not been established.  implemented under SRP on a pilot
to-date cost estimates of compited projects                                basis under a new naine "The
with responsibilities: for reviewing and                                   Management Infonmation System".
aggregating aniual O&M cost estimates                                      The study which included useful
subriiitted by field divisions. annlually                                  recommendations to assist in the
updating these estimates. preparilig rolling                               establishment of an effective O&M
long-tean estimates. aid enstire consistency in                            programme served no purpose
the procedures tbllowed by the lield divisions.
Bralmiaputra & Megluia  to identify penianient measuires to protect    studies have been completed. Twvo  the River Bank Protection Project
River Studies         against river erosion the intrastucture and    projects were prepared on the basis of   approved in 1995 is a result of the
agricultunrl areas along tIre left banik of  these studies.                study. The proposed project
Brahinapiutra river. The Meghna study was                                  formulated for the Meghna has not
for a similar purpose and was introduced after                             materialized due to questions
the devastation caused by the 1988 floods.                                 concerning technical and economic
viability.
roject Delivery System  study to improve BWDBs procurenient of   study completed in May 1992     as reported, limited action on the
civil works and equipmient, and contract                                  recommendations has now
managenienit of civil works,                                               commenced. No details have been
provided.
Mitigatiori plan for   to assess the impact of FCDI works on  sludy carried out in two months was    given the short duration, results
isheries, navigation, and  fisheries. navigation arid localised drainage   comiipleted in December 95.  should be considered as indicative
tlooding and drainage.   congestion. and to propose measures to  Recoummendations included measures   only. A detailed study should follow.
elinuiriate or minimiiize the adverse effects.    arid costs.
pperation Status Survey  to asaCse the defects in civil works of  suirveys were completed in 1994  used for rehabilitation prognumne
coriipleted sub-pr o jecis urider the SSFCDI    covering 200 sub-projects (60 sub-  for defective works and delayed
componient aid som:e ol the sub-projects uder projects by CIDA and 120 sub-projects O&M works.
the SSDFC Project.                     bv BWDB). and in 1995 covering
additional 66 sub-projects.



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate               Actdual/ICR Estimate
Tik Million    USS Million        Tk Million       USS Million
SSFCDI:
- Construnction                                                1.193.65            36.40         1,973.11k            51.16
- O&M                                                            49.20              1.50          138.47 v             3.59
-TA & Training                                                  223.00              6.80           325.59              9.33
- Equipment & Vehicle                                            26.24              0.80             71.77             2.07
- Bencihmark & Evaluation Studies                                 9.84              0.30              3.71             0.11
- Modernization of BWDB Accountinig System                       36.05              1.10             32.60             0.94
-     O&M Cost Cell                                               6.55              0.20              8.33             0.24
- Operational Status SurveV                                       0.00              0.00             11.72             0.34
Sub-total                                                      1.544.53            47.10          2.565.30            67.78
Flood Reliabiliatioii Works:
-Construction                                                  1.183.82            36.10           953.20             27.47
-TA &T raining                                                   114.78             3.50            307.98             8.88
-Equipment & Vehicle                                              6.56              0.20              7.70             0.22
SLib-total                                                     1.305.16            39.80          1,268.88            36.57
- Contingencies                                         R       790.31             24.10                 -
Grand Total                                                    3,640.00           111.00          3,834.18           104.35
lciliding costs for comupletion of reniuining works of 13 sub-projects (TK37 million), additional stnmet res identified as envirounment nmitigatory
improvements (Tk77 million) and wheat allocation of Tkl2.2 millioni (1.350 tons).
'   IncILiding O&M costs estimated at aboLIt 3"b of the constnictio,i/reliabilitationi costs for FY96 (Tk 55 million) and FY97 (Tk 58 million).
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Sources                                     Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Final Estimate
IDA                                                                      81.50                               79.10
CIDA                                                  11                  9.60                   j          10.60 #
GOB                                                                      19.90Y                             14.65"
,EOTAI                                                                   111.00                              104.35
W Canadiain $12.94 million
'   InciIldinig US$4.00 millioll eqIuivalenit ofwheaLt allocation from WPP.
Iieludinig US$3.85 million of GOl3's contributions and UIS$ 10.80 million (approximately 64.200 tons o1 wheat) from WFP.



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal          ICR/Final Estimate
Estimate
ERR (%/6):
- individual six appraised fully planned sub-projects                                    19-40               12.5-37.4 a/
- average of six fully planned sub-projects                                                 31                       22.8
- SSFFCDI component                                                                         31                       37.8
Benefitted areas (ha):
- Fully planned sub-projects                                                           50,000                     52.812
- Apputrenant Structure sub-projects                                                  200,000                   229.842
Total                                                                                250,000                    282,654
Incremental Crop Production (tons/year)                                               160.000                   339.200
Benefitting-populationi                                                             1.300,000                  1,403,210
- families                                                                           220,000                    234,410
- aiiual incremental fanr  incomc i '                                          10,510-20.700               4,380-11,000
Assumptions:
- project life                                                                              25                         25
- SCF                                                                                     0.80                      0.90
- CF for unskilled labourers                                                             0.75                       0.75
- Agric. full development (years afher compiction of civil works)                            3                          3
"   ERRs of five filly plaiuned sub-prqiccts. excluding the ERR of the Ilarbang Chara sub-project which is re-estimated at only 2.4% due to
insuifricie,,t irrigation water.
' Estimated farm incomiies of the six fiully plamied sub-projects expressed in 1995 constant prices.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA        Covenant        Status OIiginal               Revised             Description of                Comments
Agveement       type                      fulfillment     fulfillment             covenant
Sedion                                      date            date
3.01 (a)           4            CD      Asunually       -                shall provide promptly as    For the first four years the
needed the funds, facilities,    annual requirement of funds
services and other resources    was not allocated and release of
required for the project    available funds was delyed
3.01(c)            4            CD      Annually                         shall ensure that adequate funds Throughout project duration
will be allocated for O&M of   funds provided were
compited works              insufficienL
3.01 (b)           5            CD      June30.1988      October31, 1989 fumish constructionmanual    Completedbythe consultants
chedule 4                                                               including supervision        and BWDB in September 1989.
requiremiienits             T'he manual has been used by
BWDB.
9           CD       October-31. 198X  Decemiber31.    appoint consultants to carry out Completed in February 1992
1989            mathematical modelling study of
Brahmaputra river
5           CD       0ctober 31. 1988 October 31. 1989 assign 40 Sub-assistanit   38 sub-assistant Engineer were
Engineers                   posted which were considered
sufficient
5           CD       December 31.    June 30. 1990    fumish draft plan of actioi for  Consultants submitted
198X                             modemization of BWDB's    recommendations in December
financial management and    1991. but due to delay in GOB
accounting system           acceptance, implementation
was delayed until late 1994.
.02 Schedule      9            CD      June 3U. 1988    December 31.    appoint consultaits to undertake Conisultants were appointed on
. Section 11                                            1989            bencimiark and evaluation    September 15, 1990 by CIDA.
studies                     Studies of 20 sub-projects
completed in 1992, and 20 sub-
projects in end 1995.
5           CD       June 30. 1988    December 31.    appoint consultants to assist    GOB implemented the
1989            BWDB in modernizing its     consultants recommendations
financial management and    on the establishnment of
accounting systems          Regional Accounting Centres
starting in late 1994.
5           CPl      Jiie 30. 1988    December 31.    appoint consultants to assist    O&M cost cell has not been
1989            BWDB in establishinig an O&M  established. This is a serious
Cost Cell                   contravention to the
requirements in the DCA. The
cell has now been renamed as
Management Information
System, and further study is
being pursuied under SRP (Cr.
2099-BD) on a pilot basis.
.03 (i)           5            CD                                       submit land acquisition plans   Compliance with inordinate
and funds to concerned Deputy  delays, particularly during
Commissioners               initial years of implementation.
(ii)             5            CD                                       ensure possession of land before Inordinate delays due to
construction commences      shortage of funds, cumbersome
procedures, and purchase prices
belowv market rates.



23
DCA           Covelant           Stalus           Originial           Revised                 Description of                       Comments
Agreement           type                           fulfiltllnset        flulfilimient               covenant
Section                                              dale                 date
.05 (a) (i)           2               CP        33`% of O&M                             periodically adjust water rates in The situation was re-assessed
costs by June 30.                       selected BWDB irrigation sub-  during the preparation phase of
1991                                    projects covering about 100,000 SRP. While some improvement
ha, including Chandpur            was achieved, the covenanted
Irrigation Project (CIP),         targets could not be fulffiled
Kamaphuli (KIP) and Mahuri   during the project period due to
(MIP) and LLP Sub-projects in  assessment and collection issues
Rashahi O&M  Division) to         and poor quality of irrigation
enable BWDB to recover            services. The issue of
increasing portions of the cost of iimproving cost recovery is now
O&M                               being pursued under SRP.
NC    66"o of O&MI
costs by June 30.
1993
NC    1000oofO&M
costs by June 30.
1995
ii)                   5               CP         ulle 3(0. 19K8      April 30. 1989      submit proposals to improve        Rules and administrative steps
water rates collection procedures are being taken for
implementation under SRP.
.05 (b)               5               CP        June 30. 1988       April 30. 1989      fumish proposals to improve        GOB is considering actions for
irrigation services               all irrigation sub-projects in a
phased manner.
3.05 (b)(i)            I               Cl)       within nilne                            submit annual audit report         Audit report were always
montlts after each                                                         submitted with serious delays.
financial' year
CP       June 30. 198X       (October 31. 1989  notify intent to collect water       GOB has taken some action
charges in the Mahuri subprojet under SRP. Notification was
issued in 1984 for for CIP and
in 1989 for KIP. Actual
collection started only in 1995
and only I% of the FY95 water
charge assessments was
achieved. Additional
notification was issued for 12
irrigation sub-projects in 1995,
but actual collection was
implemented in 11 sub-projects
and only 10% ofthe total water
charge assessments was
achieved.
covenant type
I acc'untlatadlt                                                               5. uldigeneoas pcoIc
2 fismicial perfornanceigenerate reve;isw f&oi lbelsreticaes                  'I oilotoring review anid reporting
3 Ilow nut(i  sulanutuon of plroect (isudN                                     t0 project implementatioi not covered by categones 1-9
cotiliterpart filitdug                                                        It1. sectoraf or eross-sectoral budgetary or other resource atiocatios
sliulsugenienit aspectS ol the  ject execifilln i.gene'                      12. sectoral or cross-sectoral poicy/regulatory utafltihori action
s envronlulestal covenanit,                                                    13 other
7 involuntary resettlemient
Slun,
C( = coveniant compined with                                                   C D = comphed with afler delay
NC = not collipbed with                                                        .oon  complance expected mL reasonably short tunie
C'P-- compled with partally                                                    NYD  niot yet due



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No lack of compliance with applicable operational manual statements was noted.
Table 12: IDAResources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                     Actual
Stage of
project cycle      _
Weeks         ltiS$         Weeks         US$          Weeks         US$"000
Truougi appraisal                                                                   66.8         173.7
ppraisal-Board                                                                     13.1          35.0
|Board--efTectiveness                                                                5.6           12.4
Supervision                                                                        196.2         228.3
ompletion                   9.5          36.g                                      12.0          46.5
TOTAI                                                                            293.7         495.9
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Pertomiance rating
N umilber                    Specialized    Iiiplemeni-  Develop-ment
Stage olf       Montlth        of          Days in        staffskills     tationi      objectives    Types of
project Cycle      year        persons        lield        represented >     status                    probleiis '
Preparation          1986J87
Pre-Appraisal      3J1987            3            45         A.B.C
Appraisal           5il987            5            75        A,2B,2C
Post-Appraisal     |10/1987           2            14        E.B
SupervisionT:
10/1988                             2            52 27                           2             2            F,M
II                 3/1989             3            57        2BMD                  2             2            F.M
Ill                 10/1989           3            51        213.D                 2             2            F,M
IV                  3/1990            3            33        2B,D                  2             2            F.M
V                   11/1990           5            50        4B,D                  3             2            F,M
VI                  11/1991           4            80        3B,D                  2             2            F,M
Vil                 5-7/1992          3           180        3B                    2             2             M
Vill               4-5'1993           4           1(04       3BI                   2             2             M
IX                  121993            3            90        B.l).E                2             2             M
X                   7 U994            2            34        If1D                   I            I             M
Xl                  611995            3            81        2I3.BD                 I            I             M
Conmpletion        2-3 1996           3            30        AB.C                   I            1             M
A~- .Xgr-ononwy B Enginleer C    ononli ics: D- Dsl)is[seinen P E l'rogramme
b'   F=Financial: NI= lanagement
"    To review BWDB's proposals IirO rehabilitillioll OfiliaisrtUres damaged bytile 1987 floods.



BANOLDESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Working Paper 2: List of Sub-Projects
Appendix 2:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
APPENDIX 1
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE






BANGLADESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Missior's Aide Memoire
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX 1
1.        The main objectives were to: (i) increase agricultural production and farm incomes by
supporting investments in small schemes designed for protection of agricultural lands against floods,
prevention of salt water intrusion, improved drainage, provision of water for irrigation, or combinations
of these; (ii) strengthen BWDB's capacity to implement new projects and to operate and maintain
completed sub-projects; and (iii) rehabilitate water control infrastructures damaged during the 1987
and 1988 floods.
2.         The project consisted of two components: (i) small scale flood control, drainage and
irrigation (SSFCDI); and (ii) flood rehabilitation works (FRW). The SSFCDI included: construction of
about 15 new fully planned sub-projects covering about 50,000 ha; (ii) construction/rehabilitation of
200 appurtenant structures covering about 200,000 ha; (iii) provision of funds for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of completed sub-projects for about two years; (iv) provision technical assistance
for planning, design, and monitoring of construction of sub-projects and for training; (v) procurement
of vehicles and special construction equipment; (vi) benchmark and evaluation studies of selected sub-
projects; (vii) modernization of BWDB's financial management and accounting systems; and (viii)
establishment of an O&M cost cell. The FRW included: (i) rehabilitation of FCDI and town protection
infrastructures; (ii) provision of TA for design and construction monitoring of works and for
mathematical modelling study of river sections protected by the existing Brahmaputra Right
Embankment; and (iii) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
3.         The SSFCDI was scheduled for completion by June 1993 and the O&M by June 1995,
whilst the FRW was to be completed by June 1991. Total costs of the project, including physical and
price contingencies, were estimated at US$111 million (Tk3,641 million). The IDA Credit of US$81.5
million (US$39.6 million for SSFCDI and US$41.9 million for FRW) was to finance about 76% of
total project costs excluding taxes and duties. Co-financing of US$9.6 million was to be provided by
C1DA grant funds for TA and training. The remaining proportion of the cost of US$19.9 million was
to be met by GOB's budget allocations (US$15.9 million) and food-for-work under WFP (US$4.0
million).



BANGLADESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Missions Aide Memoire
C. PRELIMINARY MAJOR FINDINGS
4.         Due to the worsening security situation in Bangladesh, which severely limited the field
visits to the sub-project areas and discussions with concemed parties involved in the project
implementation, the following mission's findings are based mainly on desk review.
5.         Changes after Project Appraisal. During implementation, the number of sub-projects
were reduced from 215 to 120". The number of fully planned sub-projects were reduced from 15 to
11, whilst the number of appurtenant structure sub-projects were reduced from 200 to 109, including
69 newly construction and 40 rehabilitation sub-projects. However, the total benefitted areas are
estimated to have increased by 13% from about 250,000 ha to 282,650 ha. In addition, reconstruction
works for damages caused by the 1988 floods, the mathematical modelling study for the Meghna river
and the improvements to the River Research Institute buildings were added to the FRW component.
6.         Due to delays in the construction, CIDA funded TA and training was terminated in June
1994, and the extended consultant's services during the period July 1994 to December 1995 were
financed by the IDA Credit. In addition, savings of SDR4.18 million (US$5.85 million equivalent) from
the IDA Credit were diverted in August 1994 for utilization under the Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project/Priority Works Programme.
7.         Physical achievements. As of December 31, 1995, physical achievement of SSFCDI
component was about 98% albeit 2'/2 years late. A total of 107 sub-projects were completed, including
9 new fMlly planned sub-projects, and 98 appurtenant structure sub-projects. A desk review of the
supervision reports indicate several instances of unsatisfactory work in concrete and earthworks.
However, during the limited field visits, the ICR mission observed that concrete quality was good and
earthworks appear to be satisfactory.  The manufacture and installation of gates and control
arrangements by the Mechanical Unit of BWDB was reported to be unsatisfactory.
8.         Civil works of 10 out of the remaining 13 sub-projects were substantially completed.
Some of these projects are expected to be completed by the end of FY96. Civil works for the
remaining subprojects are programmed to be completed during FY97. In addition, further minor
structures are required for some 20 sub-projects. Additional costs to complete the remaining works
from GOB's own funds are estimated at TkI26.2 million, including 1,350 tons (Tkl2.2 million) of
wheat allocation from WFP.
"The official Government figures show 122 sub-projects. This counts two sub-projects twice, once as originally planned
and a second time as rehabilitation projects after flood damage.
2



BANGLADESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Irnplenentation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Mission's Aide Memoire
9.         To enable the project to achieve its objectives, GOB would have to allocate adequate
ADP for completion of the remaining 13 sub-projects and additional structures in some 20 sub-
projects. Although ADP for FY96 was approved, no funds have so far been released.
10.        The physical achievements of the FRW component was satisfactory. In spite of a few
cases of delays in land acquisition, all works were completed in FY92, one year behind schedule.
Initially, the quality of earthworks was reported to be poor. However, towards the final year the quality
was generally satisfactory. Concrete work and finishes were done to an acceptable standard.
11.        Operation and Maintenance. The achievement of this component was highly
unsatisfactory. The non-utilization of O&M funds has resulted in the deterioration of completed sub-
projects, particularly the lifting mechanisms of the control arrangements at gates, protection works at
the river and countryside of regulators, and the clearing of the intake and outfall canals. No effective
O&M plan has been prepared with responsibilities of beneficiaries, and BWDB continues to be a fluid
state. The only change introduced is the responsibility of beneficiaries in the opening and closing of
gates. This responsibility is also not effectively performed as evident by the ICR's field visits where the
lifting mechanisms have been damaged and no effort has been made to repair the damaged systems.
The organized structure communities appear to be concentrating on income generating activities with
little or no attention to protect the sub-project's infrastructure, while BWDB's technical supervisions
are inadequate.
12.        As a priority measure, a workable plan should be prepared and implemented to ensure
sustainability of the sub-projects. Given the complexity of the sub-projects, the plan should be prepared
giving consideration to the limitation of beneficiaries to carry out responsibilities to ensure the
sustainability of the sub-projects. FCD and FCDI and I (fully planned schemes), and appurtenant
structures being a part of a medium size FCD polder, with irrigation (in a few polders) by farmer
owned LLPs, present complex conditions during the operational phase.
13.        Operation and Maintenance Cost Cell. A condition of the Credit effectiveness was the
establishment of the cell in BWDB. However, the O&M Cost Cell was never established nor operative
in BWDB headquarters. Instead the proposal is to establish a Management Infornation System (MIS)
in four pilot projects under SRP, which has yet to be launched. There is no correspondence in the files
of IDA clearance for this amended proposal.
14.       Performance of Borrower and Implementing Agencies. During the initial years,
performance of the Borrower has been unsatisfactory. The effectiveness of the Credit was attained
after three extensions due to: (a) delays in approval of Project Proforma, and financing agreement with
CIDA; (b) inadequate provision in the ADP, and the untimely release of counterpart funds; and (c)
inordinate delays in award of consultancy for the Meghna and Brahmaputra River studies.
3



BANGLADESH: Seoond Small Scale Flood ControL Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementaion Completion Report
Appendix 1: Miuion  Aide Memoire
15.       Performance of the implementing agencies (BWDB) was unsatisfactory during the initial
years, with gradual improvements during the latter period of project implementation. Civil works of
SSFCDI sub-projects were scheduled to be completed by FY93, but construction continued till
December 1995 for 111 sub-projects (91%). Some of the remaining sub-projects are unlikely to be
completed until FY97. Major factors causing the delayed construction were lack of counterpart funds,
delays in land acquisition processing and pre-construction activities up to the award of contracts, and
shortage of design staff. In addition, funds provided for O&M were not utilized for the completed sub-
projects during the implementation period, and the consultancy contracts for studies were awarded
after a delay of five months, and procurement of vehicles and equipment had been completed with a
delay of over three years. The Department of Mechanical Engineering, a Directorate of BWDB used
for the fabrication and installation of gates, also performed poorly during implementation.
16.       Disbursements. As of December 31, 1995, total disbursements amounted to SDR55.4
million, or 90% of the total Credit of SDR61.7 million. At present, about US$3.3 million eligible for
IDA disbursement are required for payment to contractors for the completed works. Two issues have
arisen: (a) lack of funds in P1U3 to pay for the completed works; and (b) requirement of consultant's
certification of the reimbursement claims. Since IDA allows the disbursements to continue until April
30, 1996, the first step is for GOB to allocate funds for settlement of contractors' claims and for
engagement of consultancy services for certification of the reimbursement claims. Alternatively, IDA
could also explore the possibility of waiving the condition of the requirement for consultant's
certification which was included in the disbursement procedures but not provided in the DCA.
D. INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PREPARATION OF ICR
17.       The list of information requested by the ICR mission for the preparation of ICR is
attached. and many of this information has been completed and provided to the mission by PIU of
SSFCDI, Addl. Chief Engineer of Monitoring and Evaluation, Chief Engineer of SRP, Director of
Land and Water Use, and NHCL Consultant Team. However, due to the worsening security situation
in the country and time constraints, some information are not completed before the departure of the
ICR mission. To enable the ICR mission to prepare the ICR, the remaining information should be
provided to the ICR mission through Mr. Ghani.
E. FOLLOW-UP
18.       As agreed with RMB, the mission will return to Rome and prepare the ICR on the basis
of desk review based on all available documentation for transmittal to the World Bank by mid-April
4



BANGLADESH: Second Small Scale Flood Cotrol, Drainage and Irrigaon Prqjed (Cr. 1870-BD)
Iplnmentation Completin Rapot
Appendix 1: Minion' Aide Memioir
1996. BWDB is requested to prepare its own evaluation as per Banks Guidelines and send it to the
World Bank Resident Mission in Dhaka by the same date.
5



BANGLADESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Inigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Missions Aide Memoire
Information Requested
/1.        Total expenditures for SSFCDI by years, including CIDA and FFW
expenditures.
/2.        Expenditures by years for each of the six fully planned sub-projects
(incomplete information).
/3.        Total expenditures for FRW by years and physical achievements.
/4.        IDA Staff inputs and resources.
/5.        IDA disbursements by years and by expenditures.
/6.        Crop production data for financial and economic analysis.
7.         CIDA terminal report.
/8.        Cost recovery FY87-FY96 by sub-projects.
/9.        FFW assistance for SSFCDI and FRW-quantities and costs by years.
/10.       O&M budgets and expenditures by sub-projects during FY87-FY96.
/11.       Environmental Impact and mitigation Measures Studies.
/12.       Annual Progress reports for SSFCDI.
13.       Annual Progress reports for FRW (only FY94 received).
14.       Consultant's inputs (man-months) and costs by years for FRW.
/15.       IDA Supervision Reports
/16.       Costs to complete the remaining 13 sub-projects.
/17.       Meghna River Study.
/18.       Brahmaputra River Modelling.
19.       Financial Mgt & Accounting System Study.
/20.       O&M Cost Cell Study.
21.        Operation Status Survey (OSS).
23.        Number of study reports from Chief Engineer, SRP.
/-received
6



BANGLADESH: Seoond Smal Scale Flood Control. Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Minion's Aide Memoire
Dhaka, March 7, 1996.
M:SSFCD2\GBDAP1.DOC
7






BANGLDESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Working Paper 2: List of Sub-Projects
Appendix 2:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
APPENDIX 2
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS






BANGLADESH
Second Small Scal Flood Control, Drainags  ndr trigation Project               Ap?Pndix2
(Cr 1870-BD                                                Table 1
Imparnentaton Competon Rport
Fuily Ptnned Subprojects
PLANNING               PRE-CONSTRUCTION           CONSTRUCT FINANCIAL   OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT             Cost  IDENTIF  FEASIB   DESIGN   CONTRACT  LAND ACO                                   PROGRESS
(Tk. Mio   (%I      (%)       N%)        (%)          (%i         (%1          (%'         (%)
Dinaicur O&M
. Atrei-Kakra             17.1      100       100       100          97          100          96           Ss          go
2. SingimwriBeel           74       100       100       100         100          100          100         9S          100
NORTHEASTERN ZO NE
Ch ndour O&M
3. CIP Gravity lrrigaton   8.5      100       100       100         100          100         100           98          100
Sunamooni WfD
4 N&luarHaor              381       100       100       100         100          100         100           91          100
CENTRAL ZONE
Dh ka O&M I
5. Sdangar Mawa Ehagyakul
-fullyplanned             272       100       100       100         100          100         100          9S          100
-Rehabilitation           lag       100       100       100         100          100          65           81          79
SOUTHWESTERN ZONE
Bpcerhet O&M
S JokhaliKhal             77.7      100       100       100          99          100          10           61          98
Goc4aloa06 OM
7 GopalgnjW. Polder4    453         100       100       100         100          100          aS           75          91
Rai bari OZ M
S. Hoti River             557       100       100       100         100          100         100           78          99
arcuma  0M
v Poider41OB              358       100       100       100         100          100         100           97          100
d isal O&M
10. Kkradhari Embkt.      255       f00       100       100         100          100         100           78          99
bholaWD I
11. Pder58/1              26A       100       100      100          100          100         100           92         100
P^autskhei DAM
12. Pdders2,2A            32.1      100       100       100         100          100         100           99         100
Mymensinch O&M
13. Lathi Ftwer            8.8      100       100      100          100          100         100          100         100
Cox' d3zr 05M
14. Harbng Chara           9.4      100       100       100         100          100         100           88          99
NOTES:
- the impbmentation program includes thrne rehabiltbtion subprqets carried over from
955-80. Subprqect identification and feasibility study wer not required fta thosetlee.
- sub-project design velues are weighted by number ot structures
- sub-proect contractand firuncieW velues are vwighted by number of contrects
- sub-progectconstructlom veluesare weighted by structure cost
- rtggoryandl projectachieve mentvveiussra weighted by sub-project cost
- when land acquisition is not required the sub-project progress is shown as N/A
and the sub-project does not contibwute to category and projectachieve mewnt values
- sub-project over -all progress values are calculate d using the following weight distribution.
Identfication - 5%    Design          - 10%   Construction - 55%
Feasibility    - 15%    Contractual   - 5%    Financial   - 5%
Land Acquisition - 5%



Appendix 2
Table 2
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appurtenant Subprojects
PLANNING                 PRE-CONSTRUCTION                          OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT             Cost   IDENTIF  FEASIB   DESIGN    CONTRT  LAND AC   CONST   FINAN  PROGRESS
(Tk. Mil    (%        (U        (U        (%)      (%        (U       (U       (U
NORTHERN ZONE
Bogra O&M
1. Damdama Khari          4.4       100       100        100      100      100       100    100         100
Rajshahi O&M           3.9      100        100       100      100       100       100    100        100
2. Toker Danra            7.5       100       100        100      100      100       100    100         100
3. Singri, boni & Ot      6.6       100       100       100       100      100       100      83         99
4. Tulshiganga           12.3       100       100       100        96      100       100      98        100
5. Patnitola               9.8      100       100        100      100      100       100    100         100
6. Chilimpur - Chali    11.5        100       100       100       100      100       100    100         100
7. Jhanjhani & Haldigach
PROJECT IV
Rangpur Canal
8.  Teesta Right Emb      7.6       100       100        100      100      100       100      88         99
Dinajpur O&M
9.  Rahmatpur            11.8      100        100         92       92      100        89      93         93
10. Rajuria-Moheshpu      1.6      100        100       100      100       100       100      97        100
NORTHEASTERN ZONE
Comilla O&M
11. Satdona Beel          7.3      100        100       100      100       100       100      90         99
12. Chandal Beel          3.8       100       100        100      100      100       100    100         100
13. Sonaichari           17.0      100        100       100       100      100       100      64         98
Chandpur O&M
14. Karaiya               5.0       100       100       100       100      100        88      91         93
Maulvibazar O&M I
15. Hamhamichara          7.6       100       100        100      100      100       100      96        100
Maulvibazar O&M II
16. Shaka Borak           5.7       100       100       100       100      100       100    100         100
17. Manu River           15.1       100       100       100      100       100       100      99        100
CENTRAL ZONE
Dhaka 06M I
18. Barachapa             4.4       100       100       100       100      100       100      82         99
Mymensingh 06M
19. Suktajuri             2.8      100        100       100       100      100       100    100         100
20. Khiro River          13.6       100       100       100       100      100       100      98        100
NOTES:
- the implementation program includes three rehabilitation subprojects carried over from
955-BD. Subproject identification and feasibility study were not required for those three.
- sub-project design values are weighted by number of structures
- sub-project contract and financial values are weighted by number of contracts
- sub-project construction values are weighted by structure cost
- category and project achievement values are weighted by sub-project cost
- when land acquisition is not required the sub-project progress is shown as "N/A"
and the sub-project does not contribute to category and project achievement values
- sub-project over-all progress values are calculated using the following weight distribution.
Identification  -  5%  Design - 10%  Construction - 55%
Feasibility - 15%  Contractual - 5%  Financial - 5%
Land Acquisition - 5%



Appendix 2
Table 2
Page 2 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appurtenant Subprojects
PLANNING         PRE-CONSTRUCTION                     OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT                         Cost   IDENT   FEAS  DESGN   CONTRT  LAND ACQ CONSTRT FINANL  PROGRESS
(Tk. Mil  (%)    (%)       (M       (M        (%)       (%)     (%)       (1)
Mymensingh O&M
21. Charfaradhee Jangalia             6.7    100    100       100      100       100       100    100         100
22. Adampur                           4.8    100    100       100      100       100       100      96        100
23. Bannyar Khal                      3.4    100    100       100      100       100       100      93        100
24. Modkhola Bairagir Char            5.8    100    100       100      100       100       100    100         100
25. Sukaijuri Bathai                 12.5    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
26. Ganakhali                         9.4    100    100       100      100       100       100      99        100
27. Dewghar Haor                      4.9    100    100       100      100       100       100      97        100
28. Ujanpara-Kamarbhanga              4.5    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
29. Baraikhali Khal                  13.4    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
30. Boka Beel                         8.2    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
Tangail O&M
31. Bailjana Khal                     5.3    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
32. Kabaria Bari                      7.8    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100
33. Johny Khal                        5.1    100    100       100       40       100        87      58         88
34. Maniker Char FCD                  4.0    100    100       100       92       100       100      78         98
SOUTHEASTERN ZONE
Chittagong O&M II
35. Ichakhali                        37.1    100    100       100      100       100        53      45         71
36. Bamansundar                      15.4    100    100       100      100                 100     100        100
37. Polder 61/1                       9.4    100    100       100      100                 100      82         99
38. Polder 61/2                      15.9    100    100       100      100       100        97      88         97
39. Bellapara                         0.6    100    100       100      100                 100     100        100
Cox's Bazar O&M
40. Polder 64/2B                      4.6    100    100       100      100                 100     100        100
41. Polder 66/1                       7.8    100    100       100      100       100       100      89         99
Noakhali O&M
42. Little Feni River                 2.9    100    100       100      100       100       100      94        100
43. Kahua River                       5.5    100    100       100      100       100       100      91        100
SOUTHWESTERN ZONE
Bagerhat O&M
44. Gabkhali Khal                    15.7    100    100       100      100       100       100      89         99
Faridpur OM
45. Daburia Beel                      5.0    100    100       100      100       100       100      97        100
46. Kandar Beel Khal                  1.4    100    100       100      100       100       100    100         100
Gopalganj O&M
47. Polder 2A, Gapalganj             14.4    100    100       100      100       100        99      84         99
Jessore 0&M
48. Bagdanga Chenchuri                7.3    100    100       100      100       100       100    100         100
49. Singla-Naugati Beel               9.9    100    100       100      100       100       100     100        100



Appendix 2
Table 2
Page 3 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appurtenant Subprojects
PLANNING       PRE-CONSTRUCTION                     OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT                      Cost  IDENT  FEAS  DESIG   CONTRT LAND AC CONSTCT  FINAN    PROGRESS
(Tk.
Mil)    (%)   (%M (%)          (%J     (%)      (%)       (%)       (%
Jessore O&M
50. Talbaria, Saikura Beels        2.3    100   100       50       50              100       100         92
51. Samta & Piprgachi Beels        1.4    100   100      100      100              100       100        100
Jhenidah O&M
52. Bagobati & Rajaram Khal        5.0    100   100      100      100     100      100        93        100
53. Kazuli Beel                    8.4    100   100      100     100               100        91        100
Rajbari O&M
54. Gorai-Sirajpur Haor            8.9    100   100      100      100     100      100        73         99
Satkhira O&M I
55. Polder 5, Kaliganj            12.7    100   100      100      100     100      100        95        100
56. Polder 5, Shyamnagar          12.1    100   100      100      100     100      100        82         99
Satkhira O&M II
57. Polder 6-8                    16.2    100   100      100      100     100      100        97        100
58. Polder 13-14/2                 7.5    100   100      100      100     100      100        97        100
Barguna O&M
59. Sub-Polder 41/6A              12.8    100   100      100      100              100        98        100
60. Polder 41/5                   17.4    100   100      100      100              100        90         99
Barisal O&M
61. Hizla Embankment              14.9    100   100      100     100      100      100        79         99
62. Katakhali Khal                10.8    100   100      100      100     100      100       100        100
63. Padrishibpur                  26.8    100   100      100     100      100      100        92        100
Patuakhali O&M
64. Itabaria - Lebukhali          15.1    100   100      100      100     100      100        98        100
65. Subidkhali-Madhabkhali        19.0    100   100      100      100     100      100       100        100
66. Muradia-Kalagachi             15.7    100   100      100      100     100      100        90         99



Appendix 2
Table 2
Page 4 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appurtenant Subprojects
PLANNING              PRE-CONSTRUCTION                         OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT                  Cost   IDENTIF  FEASIB DESIGN  CONTRCT LAND AC CONSTRCT FINANCL   PROGRESS
(Tk.
Mil)      (%)       (%)     (%)      (%)       (%)       ()        (U)        (
REHABILITATION SUBPROJECTS
NORTHERN ZONE
Rajshahi O&M
67. Shamonshing Danra          5.0       100      100      100      100       100       100       100         100
Kurigram W.D. II
68. Dudkumar Right Embk    14.5          100      100    100        100       100       100        49          97
Dinajpur O&M
69. Panchanala Koya Bee         2.9      100       100     100      100                 100       100         100
70. Bahagali Giria Beel         0.4      100      100      100      100                 100         93        100
71. Sarala Chalunia Bee         0.8      100      100      100      100                 100         92        100
72. Chiribandar (SI LLP         2.3      100       100     100      100                 100         88         99
73. Tangaria Gobindapur         4.4      100       100    100       100       100       100         73         99
Panchagarh O&M
74. Elect. LLP Irri. B1        2.8       100       100     100      100                 100         99        100
75. Elect. LLP Irri. B1        6.4       100      100      100      100                 100         80         99
NORTHEASTERN ZONE
Maulvibazar O&M II
76. Manu River FCD (Pha         1.3      100       100    100       100                  72         98         84
Habiganj O&M
77. Bohara                     0.9       100       100    100       100                 100       100         100
CENTRAL ZONE
Dhaka O&M I                    1.5         0         0    100       100                 100       100          79
78. Dhulsura                   1.5         0         0    100       100                 100       100          79
79. Kashimpur Beel             7.7       100      100      100      100       100       100         71         99
Mymensingh OM
80. Kalihor River              4.0         0         0    100       100                 100       100          79
SOUTHEASTERN ZONE
Chittagong O0M I
81. Harwalchari                4.0       100      100    100        100                 100       100         100
Cox's Bazar O&M
82. Polder 65                  4.0       100      100     100       100                 100       100         100



Appendix 2
Table 2
Page 5 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appurtenant Subprojects
PLANNING               PRE-CONSTRUCTION                             OVER-ALL
SUB-PROJECT              Cost   IDENT  FEASIB DESIGN  CONTRACT LAND AC  CONSTRUCT FINANCIAL  PROGRESS
(Tk.
Mil)    (%M      ()       (%)       ()        (%)           
Kaptai O&M
83. Hathazari             2.1        0       0      100        100                   100         100          79
SOUTHWESTERN ZONE
Bagerhat O&M
84. Polder 36/1         15.2      100      100      100       100        100         100          53          98
85. Polder 35/1          12.7     100      100      100       100                    100           56         97
Cox's Bazar O&M
86. Polder 66/1, Reh   0.3        100      100      100       100                    100           95        100
Faridpur OhM
87. Belubona              0.7     100      100      100       100                    100         100        100
88. Alfadanga-Boalma  10.9        100     100       100       100        100         100          90        100
89. Madankhali Khal    3.1        100      100      100       100                    100         100          98
Khulna OhM I
90. Polder 17/1           4.1     100     100       100       100        100         100          76          99
Khulna OM II
91. Polder 30             4.4     100     100       100         50       100         100          81          97
Rajbari OhM
92. Karatkandi            0.1     100     100       100       100                    100         100        100
Satkhira O&M II
93. Polder 2              5.3     100     100       100       100        100         100          98        100
94. Polder 14/1           4.2     100     100       100       100        100         100          98        100
PROJECT III
Barguna O&M
95. Polder 40/1           8.0     100     100       100       100        100         100         100        100
96. Polder 40/2         12.2      100     100       100       100        100         100          97        100
97. Polder 42             8.6     100     100       100       100                    100         100        100
98. Polder 45             7.4     100     100       100       100        100         100          99        100
99. Polder 43/1         13.7      100     100       100       100       100          100          95        100
100. Polder 41/1         13.5     100     100       100       100                    100          81          99
101. Polder 41/3          6.6     100     100       100       100                    100          85          99
Patuakhali OhM
102. Polder 47/2          5.0     100      100      100       100                    100         100        100
103. Polder 47/1          2.8     100      100      100       100                    100          66          98
104. Polder 47/3        10.0      100     100       100       100                    100          83          99
105. Polder 47/4         14.6     100      100      100       100                     97          68          97
106. Polder 43/lB         9.4     100     100       100       100                     93          57          94



Appendix 2
Table 3
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Completed Subprojects
Subproject                             O&M                                     Benefitted       Date of
Name             Category       Division                 Type                Area (ha)    Completion
1 Hathazari               Rehab.         Kaptai          Transportation                      0       Jan. 1989
2 Polder 66/1             Rehab.         Cox's Bazar    Drainage, Salinity Control          360      April 1989
3 Polder 65               Rehab.         Cox's Bazar    Flood Control, Drainage             280      June 1989
Rehab.                         Irrigation, Salinity Control
4 Chirirbundar LLP        Rehab.         Dinajpur        Irrigation                         344      Dec.19B9
5 LLP Block 3             Rehab.         Panchagargh    Irrigation                          890      Mar.1990
6 LLP Block 2             Rehab.         Panchagargh    Irrigation                          385      June 1990
7 Dhulsura                Rehab.         Dhaka-I         Flood Control, Drainage            800      June 1990
8 Kalihor River           Rehab.         Mymensingh      Flood Control, Drainage            1200     June 1990
9 Polder 14/1             Rehab.         Satkhira-II     Flood Control, Drainage,          2000      June 1990
Rehab.                         Irrigation, Salinity Control
10 Polder 47/2            Rehab.         Patuakhali       Flood Control, Drainage,           700      June 1990
Rehab.                         Irrigation, Salinity Control
11 Panchanala Koya        Rehab.         Dinajpur         Drainage, Irrigation              2000      July 1990
12 Bahagaligiria          Rehab.         Dinajpur         Drainage, Irrigation               330      July 1990
13 Sarala Chalunia        Rehab.         Dinajpur         Drainage, Irrigation              1000      July 1990
14 Polder 17/1            Rehab.         Khulna-I         Flood Control, Drainage,           800      Oct.1990
Rehab.                         Irrigation, Salinity Control
15 Belubona               Rehab.         Faridpur         Flood Control, Drainage,           400      April 1991
Irrigation
16 Bamansundar            Apt. Struct.  Chittagong-II  Flood Control, Drainage,             3000      May 1991
Apt. Struct.                   Salinity Control
17 Bagdanga-Chenchuri   Apt. Struct.  Jessore             Flood Control, Drainage,          4075      May 1991
Apt. Struct.                   Irrigation
18 Samta-Pipragachi       Apt. Struct.  Jessore           Drainage, Irrigation               178      May 1991
19 Bannyar Khal           Apt. Struct.  Mymensingh        Flood Control, Drainage,           739      May 1991
20 Bohara                 Apt. Struct.  Habigonj          Irrigation                         210      June 1991
21 Singri, Boni & Other Apt. Struct.  Rajshahi            Drainage, Irrigation              8666      June 1991
22 Begoboti-Rajaram       Apt. Struct.  Jhenidah          Irrigation                         585      June 1991
23 Kandar Beel Khal       Apt. Struct.  Faridpur          Flood Control, Drainage            433      June 1991
24 Damdama Khari          Apt. Struct.  Bogra             Flood Control, Drainage           3500      July 1991
25 Polder 2               Rehab.         Satkhira-II      Flood Control, Drainage           1500      Sept.1991



Appendix 2
Table 3
Page 2 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Completed Subprojects
Subproject                              O&M                                       Benefitted         Date of
Name            Category         Division                   Type                Area (ha)  Completion
26 Polder 40/1           Rehab.          Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage,             1747      Sept. 1991
Irrigation, Salinity Control
27 Polder 40/2           Rehab.          Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage,             3696      Sept. 1991
Irrigation, Salinity Control
28 Polder 42             Rehab.          Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage,             2291      Sept. 1991
Irrigation, Salinity Control
29 Polder 6-8           Apt. Struct.   Satkhira-II        Flood Control, Drainage              6150      Dec.1991
30 Suktajuri            Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage,             3155     March 1992
Apt. Struct.                     Irrigation
31 Shaka Borak          Apt. Struct.   Moulvibazar-II  Flood Control, Drainage                 3800     March 1992
32 Harwalchari           Rehab.          Chittagong-I    Irrigation                            300      April 1992
33 Teesta R. Embank.   Apt. Struct.   Rangpur Canal   Flood Control, Drainage                  784      June 1992
34 Khiro River          Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage,             4488      June 1992
Irrigation
35 Bailjana Khal        Apt. Struct.   Tangail            Flood Control, Drainage              1959     June 1992
36 Polder 66/1          Apt. Struct.   Cox's Bazar        Flood Control, Drainage,             1060     June 1992
Irrigation, Salinity Control
37 Talbaria, Saikura   Apt. Struct.   Jessore             Flood Control, Drainage,             224      June 1992
Beels                                             Irrigation
38 Polder 45             Rehab.          Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage,             3108      June 1992
Irrigation, Salinity Control
39 Polder 43/1           Rehab.          Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage,             5000     June 1992
Irrigation, Salinity Control
40 Chandal Beel         Appt. Struct.  Comilla            Flood Control                         143      June 1992
41 Singia-Nabugati      Appt. Struct.  Jessore            Flood Control, Drainage,             3400     March 1993
Irrigation
42 Tulshiganga          Appt. Struct.  Rajshahi           Drainage, Irrigation                 1450     March 1993
43 Satdona Beel         Appt. Struct.  Comilla            Flood Control, Drainage              2374     April 1993
44 Polder 5IKaligonj)  Appt. Struct.  Satkhira-I          Flood Control, Drainage              1430     April 1993
45 Singimrarl Beel       Fully Planned  Dinajpur          Flood Control, Drainage,             1240     April 1993



Appendix 2
Table 3
Page 3 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Completed Subprojects
Subproject                             o&M -                                    Benefitted       Date of
Name            Category         Division                  Type               Area (ha)   Completion
46 Srinagar Mawa         Fully Planned Dhaka-I            Flood Control, Drainage,          2295     June 1993
Bhagykul         Rehab.                            Irrigation
47 Polder 55/2A          Fully Planned  Patuakhali        Flood Control, Drainage,          5670     June 1993
Irrigation
48 Laithi River          Fully Planned Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage,          1210     June 1993
Irrigation
49 Polder 64/2B         Apt. Struct.   Cox's Bazar        Flood Control, Drainage,           970     June 1993
Salinity Control
50 Polder 41/6A         Apt. Struct.   Barguna            Flood Control, Drainage,          3150     Sept. 1993
Salinity Control
51 Manu River           Apt. Struct.   Moulvibazar-II  Flood Control, Drainage              1500      Feb. 1994
52 Toker Danra          Apt. Struct.   Rajshahi           Flood Control, Drainage           1290     March 1994
53 Daduria Beel         Apt. Struct.   Faridpur           Flood Control, Drainage           1261     April 1994
54 Polder 13-14/2       Apt. Struct.   Satkhira-II        Drainage                          2606     April 1994
55 Bellapara            Apt. Struct.   Chittagong-II    Drainage, Irrigation                 795     April 1994
56 Itabaria-            Apt. Struct.   Patuakhali         Flood Control, Drainage           2031     May 1994
Lebukhali
57 Subidkhali-          Apt. Struct.   Patuakhali         Flood Control, Drainage,          2190     May 1994
Madhabkhali                                       Irrigation
58 Kabariabari          Apt. Struct.   Tangail            Flood Control, Drainage           3489     May 1994
59 Hamhamichara         Rehab.          Moulvibazar-I    Flood Control, Drainage             782      June 1994
60 Harbangchara          Fully Planned Cox's Bazar        Irrigation                         270      June 1994
61 Madankhali Khal      Rehab.          Faridpur          Flood Control, Irrigation         5342      June 1994
62 Padrishibpur         Apt. Struct.   Barisal            Flood Control, Drainage            870     June 1994
Irrigation
63 CIP Gravity Irrig.  Fully Planned Chandpur             Irrigation                         980     Sep.1994
64 Adampur              Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage           1200     Nov. 1994
65 Modkhola Bairagir   Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh          Flood Control, Drainage           1855     Nov. 1994
Char
66 Charfaradi           Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage           2934     Nov. 1994
Jangalia
67 Dewghar Haor         Apt. Struct.   Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage            618     Dec. 1994
68 Kahua River          Apt. Struct.   Noakhali/Feni    Flood Control, Drainage             1531     Dec. 1994
Irrigation
69 Kajuli Beel          Apt. Struct.   Jhenidah           Drainage Improvement              1315     Dec. 1994



Appendix 2
Table 3
Page 4 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Imp ntation Completion Report
Completed Subprojects
Subproject                               O&M                                    Benefitted      Date of
Name              Category         Division                 Type              Area (ha)   Completion
70 Polder 61/1             Apt. Struct.    Chittagong II  Drainage                            1570    Feb. 1995
71 Little Feni River      Apt. Struct.    Noakhali/Feni  Flood Control, Drainage              346     March 1995
Irrigation & Salinity Control
72 Karatkandi              Rehab.           Rajbari         Flood Control, Drainage           600     March 1995
Irrigation
73 Barachapa               Apt. Struct.    Dhaka-I          Flood Control, Drainage           1073    April 1995
74 Baraikhali Khal        Apt. Struct.    Mymensingh        Flood Control, Drainage           7500    April 1995
75 Boka Beel              Apt. Struct.    Mymensingh        Flood Control, Drainage           793     April 1995
Irrigation
76 Gabkhali Khal          Apt. Struct.    Bagerhat          Flood Control, Drainage           2440    April 1995
Irrigation & Salinity Control
77 Katakhali Khal         Apt. Struct.    Barisal           Flood Control, Drainage           970     April 1995
Irrigation
78 Chilimpur - Chaligram Apt. Struct.    Rajshahi           Flood Control, Drainage           2899    May 1995
79 Shamonshing Danra       Rehab.           Rajshahi        Flood Control, Drainage           3352    May 1995
80 Rajuria - Moheshpur   Apt. Struct.    Dinajpur           Flood Control, Drainage           333     May 1995
81 Ganakkhali             Apt. Struct.    Mymensingh        Flood Control, Drainage           1750    May 1995
82 Sukaijuri Bathai       Apt. Struct.    Mymensingh        Flood Control, Drainage           5703    May 1995
83 Ujanpara-Kamarbhanga  Apt. Struct.    Mymensingh         Flood Control, Drainage           1157    May 1995
84 Gorai-Sirajpur Haor   Apt. Struct.    Rajbari            Flood Control, Drainage           2561    May 1995
85 Hizla Embankment       Apt. Struct.    Barisal           Flood Control, Drainage           1183    May 1995
86 Polder  30              Rehab.           Khulna II       Drainage and Irrigation           916      June 1995
87 Polder  58/1            Fully Planned   Bhola I          Flood Control, Drainage           2687    June 1995
Irrigation
88 Polder  41/68           Fully Planned   Barguna          Flood Control, Drainage &         5600    Sept. 1995
Tidal Irrigation
89 Polder  41/5           Apt. Struct.    Barguna           Flood Control, Drainage &         2000    Sept. 1995
Supplementary Irrigation
90 Muradia-Kalagachi      Appt. Struct.   Patuakhali        Flood Control, Drainage           1890    Sept. 1995
Irrigation



Appendix 2
Table 3
Page 5 of 5
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Completed Subprojects
Subproject                               O&M                                   Benefitte        Date of
Name              Category         Division                Type            Area (ha)    Completion
91 Patnitola                 Apt. Struct.  Rajshahi         Flood Control, Drainage         1589   October 1995
92 Sonaichari                Apt. Struct.  Comilla          Flood Control, Drainage         4321    October 1995
93 Tangaria Gobindapur           Rehab.      Dinajpur       Flood Control & Drainage        964    November 1995
94 Polder 47/1                   Rehab.      Patuakhali    Flood Control, Drainage &   1750   November 1995
Irrigation
95 Polder 47/3                   Rehab.      Patuakhali     Flood Control, Drainage &   1400   November 1995
Irrigation
96 Naluar Haor               Fully Planned  Sunamgonj W.D Flood Control, Drainage &   8800    December 1995
Irrigation
97 Jokhali Khal              Fully Planned  Bagerhat        Drainage and Irrigation         8720    December 1995
98 Horai River               Fully Planned  Rajbari         Flood Control, Drainage &   1350    December 1995
Irrigation
99 Kakradhari Embankment   Fully Planned  Barisal            Flood Control, Drainage &   2660    December 1995
Irrigation
100 Jhanjhani Haldigachi    Apt. Struct.  Rajshahi           Flood Control, Drainage &   5658    December 1995
Irrigation
101 Maniker Char FCD          Apt. Struct.  Tangail          Flood Control, Drainage &    405    December 1995
Irrigation
102 Polder 5, Sayamnagar    Apt. Struct.  Satkhira-I    Flood Control & Drainage            3060    December 1995
103 Dudkumar Right Embkt.        Rehab.      Kurigram-Il   Flood Control & Drainage         4000    December 1995
104 Kashimpur Beel               Rehab.       Dhaka-I        Flood Control & Drainage       1050    December 1995
105 Polder 36/1                  Rehab.      Bagerhat        Drainage & Irrigation          4500    December 1995
106 Polder 35/1                  Rehab.      Bagerhat        Drainage & Irrigation          2900    December 1995
107 Polder 41/1                  Rehab.      Barguna         Flushing & Irrigation          3700    December 1995
108 Polder 41/3                  Rehab.      Barguna         Flushing & Irrigation           950    December 1995
109 Alfadanga Boalmari           Rehab.       Faridpur       Flood Control, Drainage &   1591    December 1995
Irrigation



Appendix 2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage, and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Summary of Completed Sub-projects
Financial Year                          Number of Sub-projects completed
Fully Planned                 Appurtenant and Rehabilitation
Appraisal Target        Actual       Appraisal Target           Actual
1987/88                        -                   -               25                    -
1988/89                         6                  -               50                    3
1989/90                         4                  -               50                    7
1990/91                        5                   -               50                   13
1991/92                        -                   4               25                  17
1992/93                        -                   1                -                    5
1993/94                        -                   1                -                  13
1994/95                        -                   -                -                  23
Upto December 95                -                  5                -                   16
Total                          15                 11              200                   97
Notes:
A total 14 fully planned sub-projects was taken up for implementation, of which 11 sub-
projects were completed in December 1995. Although, civil works of the SMB sub-project were
completed, it has been taken up for rehabilitation, mainly raising the levels of the completed
embankment. The remaining works on this subproject, the Atrai Kakra subproject and at Polder 4
are scheduled for completion by FY97.
A total of 109 construction/rehabilitation appurtenant sub-projects was taken up for
implementation, of which 96 were completed in December 1995 and 2 more were completed by March
1996. Eight (81 sub-projects are expected to be completed by June 1997.



Appendix 2
Table 5
Page 1 of 3
Bangladesh
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Incomplete Sub-project As of December 31, 1995
Division      Subproject      Incomplete Work as of Dec                   Cost (Taka Million)                 Benefitted   Completion
31, 1995                                                              area (ha)       date
Total   Completed   Remaining
Costs                              Completed
Chittagorng   1. Ichakhali    Structure completed.            37.10   18.46         18.64         53           2,200         FY97
O&M -II                        Construction of one
closure and diversion
channel delayed due to
court injunction
2.  Polder       R/S diversion channel for    15.86    15.29           0.57        97            4,528        FY97
61/2             Hoania regulator. Wheat
requested in FY 96.
Chandpur      3. Karaiya       Installation of gates at 6    5.01       4.50          0.51        88           705           FY97
O&M                            sluices by the contractor.
About 2.15 km. embankment
resectioning incomplete
due to land dispute. 100
mt of wheat (Tk 0.9
million) requested to
complete work in FY 96.
Land dispute to be
resolved before work
start.
Moulvibaza   4. Manu River   All works complete except          1.30    1.30          0.000       72           2,567         FY97
r WD-Il          (Phase II)   embkt resectioning for I
km. 1000 mt of wheat (Tk 9
million) requested to
complete work in FY 96
Gopalganj    5. Polder 4       Concreting of walls and        45.32    38.16          7.16        86           7,180         FY97
OhM                            earthwork for backfilling
& approach road at Uzani
regulator. Fabrication of
m.s. gates for 9 reg. are
in progress by ME.
Concrete works complete at
5 bridges each 23 m span.
Earthwork for backfilling
and approach road
remaining.
Embankment construction
under 12 contracts not as
per design.
Embkt gap closing at 18



Appendix 2
Table 5
Page 2 of 3
Bangladesh
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Incomplete Sub-project As of December 31, 1995
Division       Subproject      Incomplete Work as of Dec                    Cost (Taka Million)                  Benefitted   Completion
31, 1995                                                                area (ha)        date
Total    Completed   Remaining
Costs                               Completed
locations incomplete due
to public demand for
navigation.
6.  Polder 2A   Installation of gates at 5   14.42    14.31              0.11         99           7,756         FY97
regulators by ME and
repair of 2 bridges by the
contractors
Dinajpur      7.  Atrai         Installation of gate at 12   17.10    16.54             0.56        96            4,150         FY97
O&M           Kakra             inlet structures by ME.
Construction of new
embankment for a length of
50 meters to avoid railway
track. Repair of flood
damaged embankment. Land
acquisition is needed for
new embankment.
8.  Rahmatpur   Gap in the embankment at         11.76    11.36          0.40        89            4,360         FY97
one location due to public
demand for an additional
outlet for local drainage.
Design complete.
Dhaka O&M-   9.  SMB            Earthwork for embkt.            18.85    12.28          6.51        65            2,295         FY97
I                  (Rehab)      upgrading & brick pitching
(1.015 km) & earthwork for
dwarf embankment under 15
contracts (7.49 km) were
about 70 to 80 percent
complete before the flood.
These works including the
other component of
subproject damaged
severely during 3
consecutive floods.
Tangail       10. Jhony         Construction of pipe             5.12      4.15         0.97        87            1,308         FY97
O&M           Khal              culvert at Mollabari (2-
0.9m dia). Re-excavation
of khal under FFW could
not be completed for a
length of 72m due to



Appendix 2
Table 5
Page 3 of 3
Bangladesh
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Incomplete Sub-project As of December 31, 1995
Division      Subproject      Incomplete Work as of Dec                   Cost (Taka Million)                Benefitted   Completion
31, 1995                                                              area (ha)        date
Total   Completed   Remaining
Costs                              Completed
cultivation of canal bed &
existence of bridge with
shallow foundation. Design
complete.
11. Rehab. of   Earthwcrk for diversion         10.71    10.47         0.24        99            4,781        FY97
channel & approach embkt.
Kabariabari      not to design section. To
stop embkt cut, 2
additional drainage
outlets (l-0.9m dia)
beyond feasibility report
included in FY 96 program.
work authorization &
design complete. 250 mt
wheat (Tk 2.25 million)
requested for repair of
4.5 km embankment which
was damaged during July,
95 flood.
Patuakhali   12.  Polder       The sluice at km 16.2          14.57   14.08          0.49        97            5,600         3/1996
O&M           47/4             damaged during cyclone on
16.05.95 before the
contractor completed the
work. Re-construction of
apron slabs started
recently, EE/Patuakhali
O&M division requested
time extension upto
March/96
13. Polder       The sluice at km 79.0           9.42    8.52          0.90        93            2,500         3/1996
43/18           damaged during cyclone on
16.05.95 before the
contractor completed the
work. Re-construction of
apron slabs started
recently, EE/Patuakhali
O&M division requested
time extension upto
March/96.



Appendix 2
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Iriation Proiect         Pae 1 of 2
(Cr. 1870-BD) 
Implanentation Compleiom Report
Appendix 2-Table 6: Additional Structures Required for Subprojects
Division     Subproject        Additional   Design    Esimazd   Esdmaze &         Possible
Stucmres       STus     Cost (Tk     Tender    Completion
| ________    .___________                               Million)                   Date
Tangail      1. hony Khal      -drainage  completed       1.75     Reviewed &      FY97
O&M                            outlers 0.9m                         prepared
dia (2)
-irrigation
inlEtS 0.30M
Dia (18)                                .                    .
2 Maniker Char   -drainage  completd        1.00         do          FY97
Dia (2)    _
3. Kabariabari   -drainage  completed    0.80            do          FY97
outlEtS 0.9m,
Dia (2)
4. Kandor Beel    -drainage  completed    0.49           do          FY97
outlet 0.9m
Dia
5. Daduria Bcel    -drainage  completed    3.42          do          FY98
outlets 0.9m_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ D ia
Faridpur     6. Alfadanga-     -drainage  completed       6.81         do         FY98
O&M          Boalmari          outles 0.9m
Dia (7)
-Jogibarat Fl
reg. 1.5 x
1.2m
Mymetsiuxg   7. Khiro River    - a d d I .  completed     5.00         do         FY98
O&M                            regulazor (3-
_15xl.8m)
Dhakm O&M   8- Srinaga Mawa  -flood dyke  wompleed    6.60             do          FY97
(7hn)
Bagerba      9. Jokbali        -Fl. sluies  completed    5.60          do         . FY98
O&M                            0.9m x I.2m
(3)
-pipe inlet
._________  _____________  0.9m     dia  (4)     . _                   _
hola WD I   10. Polder 5U11   -outlets 0.9 x  completed   1.42         do          FY98
_____ _____  _____ _0.9m
PaLkhaii    11. Iabaria-       -flushing                  8.37         do          FY98
O&M          Lebukbal          inlets 0.45 m   complted
dia (12)
- surface
sluices 0.9 x-
1.2m (3)
12. Muradia      -flushing  coplted         7.80         do
Kgachi           inlds 0.45 m
diaCiS5)



Appendix 2
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
Bangladesh
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2-Table 6: Additional Structures Required for Subprojects
Division     Subproject         A ddi tional |Design    Estimated   Estimate &     Possible
Structures     Status    Cost (Tk     Tender     Compietion
Million)                  Date
13. Subidkhali-    -flushing  completed      7.17         do          Fy98
Madhabkhali       inlets 0.45 m
dia (12)
- drainage
outlets O.9m
dia (3T)
- SUrface
sluice 0.9 x
1.2m    (1)  _ _  _ _    _ _ _ _
Barguna       14. Poider 41/6B   -flushing  completed      7.70         do          FY98
O&M                             inlets 0.6 m
dia (20)
surface sluice
0.9 x 0.9m
Barisal       15. Katakhali     -flushing  corpleted       0.62         do          FY97
O&M                             inlets  0.4m
d--  dia (2)
Rajshahi      16. .Janjhani-    - r o a d  completed       6.16         do          FY97
O&M          Haidigachi         cuiverts (10) I__
17. Pamitala      -LLP  inles  completed     0.15         do         FY97
(2)
18. Snamonshing   -kallabona  completed      5.15         do         FY98
Danra            regulator 2-
1.5 x 2.4m
19. Cbilimpur-    - r e t i r e d  completed  0.50        do        Completed
Chaligram         embankment
Dianajpur    20. Rahmatpur    M anikhari  completed        0.50         do         FY97
O&M                             drainage
outlet






BANGLDESH: Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Worling Paper 2: List of Sub-Prects
Appendix 2:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATION PROJECT (Cr. 1870-BD)
APPENDIX 3
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION






APPENDIX 3
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
1.         At appraisal, the increase in agricultural production was quantified from about 250,000 ha
of crop land, which was affected by flooding and inadequate drainage in the monsoon season and
lacked irrigation supplies in the dry season. Small-scale works under the project, designed to protect
against flooding, improve drainage and retain water were expected to minimize the above hazards and
would encourage farmers to cultivate their land more intensively.
2.         Estimates of anticipated crop production for the entire project were extrapolations based
on the assumption that the unappraised sub-projects were, on average, to produce comparable results
as the six appraised sub-projects, including: (1) Singimari Beel, (2) Laithi River, (3) Srinagar-Mawa-
Bhagyakul, (4) Polder 55/2A, (5) Chandpur Irrigation, and (6) Harbang Chara.
3.         Grain crop yields in sub-projects with flood control and drainage improvement
components were expected to increase moderately in the future with the project. Overall increases in
crop production were expected to result mainly from shifts in cropping patterns toward high-yielding
varieties and increased cropping intensities. Modest increases in application levels of fertilizer and
pesticides were projected for transplanted rice and wheat. It was assumed in the analysis that present
and future without project conditions would be the same.
4.         SAR projected increases of cropping intensity range from 14% to 35% for the five
appraised sub-projects; no change in cropping intensity was expected from the Chandpur Irrigation
sub-project. On average, yields of paddy and wheat were to increase from about 2.5 ton to about
3.7 ton per cultivable hectare, as a result of project investments. It was estimated that the total
incremental grain production for the SSFCDI part of the project would be about 160,000 ton.
5.         At completion, the crop production impact of the above six sub-projects has been re-
evaluated using crop production data for each sub-project provided by PIU of BWDB. These data
were based on crop production monitoring reports for the six sub-projects', impact evaluation reports
for two selected sub-projects2, and sub-project feasibility study reports3.
i Reports on Crop Production Monitoring, Vol. I and Vol. II, by BWDB, Aug. 1995; and Draft Monitoring
Report for CIP, Feb. 1996.
2 Evaluation Study Reports for Singimari Beel and Polder 55/A, by Northwest Hydraulic Consultant Ltd.,
Dec. 1995.
3 Feasibility Reports for Six Sub-projects, BWDB and NHCL, April 1987.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control. Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1 870-BD)
Implementation Conmpletion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
6.           As expected at appraisal, changes involving more use of HYV paddy and increases in
cropping intensity have taken place in each of the six sub-projects with the completion of the project
works. ICR cropping intensities as compared with SAR estimates are given below:
Cropping Intensities %
.,,.,t',.'2  W.,t:".'. W''''                                       ''t~eua  'ibu  W-
Z TThi~~~~~~~~~~Rw~~~~~r  too  ..           io4         1&3           49~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
. It, ,,C- -             165 . 20,0...   .                   15          17.
7.           As can be seen in the above table, new estimates for SMB and Harbang Chara sub-
projects have lower cropping intensities than SAR. estimates. The lower intensity for SMB reflects
inadequate monsoon flood security. The project works did not provide full flood protection according
to the crop production monitoring report by BWDB. In the case of Harbang Chara, the monitoring
report indicates that insufficient availability of irrigation water precluded fuirther increase in cropping
intensity.
8.           Comparison of SAR and ICR estimates for incremental grain production and average
yields of paddy and wheat is shown below
2



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implenientation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Cro0) Yield ('000 ton per ha)
.... ..., ... ;'.1""'   '   ')         ..'.:'-'.
i  ; Sp;a~e -.2 :.2 
..   ....   ,,i   ........,
~~~~ 4  --(2                                 4-649        83        15 12.
6.~~~1a~~~~iigchata  1.88.2.57 . 0~~~~~~~~~~~......9. I. . ............. .1.0..27.
~ra~.yicId (t)            2. .    .             1 .2          2.6        3.8.  - -. .
9.           Overall ICR estimates for incremental grain production and average yields of wheat and
paddy are comparable to SAR estimates. However, ICR estimates for three sub-projects, i.e., SMi,
CIP and Harbang Chara are lower than SAP. estimates. The lower increment for SMB and Harbang
C~hara are, as explained in para 6 above, due to lower cropping intensities which did not meet the SAP.
expectations. The lower increment for CIP is a reflection of the lower conversion to boro (HYV) rice
than expected and under-estimated production for 'future without project' situation by SAP..4 The
r-emaining three sub-projects have higher incremental production than SAR estimates. Re-estimated
cropped area, cropping intensities, crop yields and production are detailed in Tables 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and
16.
10.          On the basis of the re-estimated annual incremental production for the six sub-projects,
total annual incremental grain production at fuldl development is estimated to be about 339,200 ton.5 It
should be noted that the ICR estimated incremental production amounts to more than 200% of SAP.
projected incremental production of 160,000 ton. Since SAP. does not clearly explain the basis for
arriving at the projected 160,000 ton which is obviously diffierent from the ICR assumption, the re-
estimated incremental production cannot be compared with the SAR projection.
4This also applies to SMB. Singinmari Beel and Laithi River sub-projects: see footnote 3 of
Tables 1, 4, 7 and 13.
5282.654 ha (net cultivated area of 120 completed sub-projects) x 1.2 ton/ha = 339.185 ton.
3



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Dainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1 870-BD)
Implemenitation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
B. FARM INCOMES
11.          At appraisal, the impact of the project on farmn incomes was analyzed for the six appraised
fully planned FCDI sub-projects, including 4 FCD sub-projects and 2 irrigation sub-projects. Farm
models were based on one-hectare owner-operator farms as 8O0/% of the rural households operate farms
about that size or less. Based on the assumed cropping patterns and crop budgets in Without Project
(WOP) and With project (WP) situations for the six FCDI sub-project in Annex 10, Tables 8-13 and
the financial farm-gate prices of outputs and inputs in Annex 11, Table 1 of the SAR, incremental
annual net farm incomes, expressed in 1987 constant prices, were estimated to increase by about 42%-
88% for 4 FCD sub-projects and by 24%-38% for 2 irrigation sub-projects. The estimated incremental
annual net farm incomes of the six FCDI sub-projects were Tk 6,781-Tk 3,359 as shown below:
Annual Farm Incomes of One-ha Farms
(Tk)
m  _  g   ~~~ ~~~..; .................   ......' ;   ;    .. .  .   ..   ....................     . '.'..
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .. ...........................
g, ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,i.W..   ,   ....... .-.   ,,,  .
,'. ,''.,',,',',   ,j :i:: - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .   . . .. . . .. ,,.,., ,..
j , ;   ij.. j.,,  W ..  ;....  ...   ;.  ,..,.j.,.,.,j  ..,.,..R  .,.,..:'':,  .. ..... ....i''.    .......... .. .-.
:B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                              M.. $:  .. ..... .. ... :--
,~~~I                      -:4- ,- ';   -'M':3!'  - 
D-drainage; I-irrigation. FCDI-flood control, drainage and in igation
12.          Re-stated in 1995 constant prices, incremental annual net farm  incomes of the six sub-
projects would have been Tk 10,5 l0-Tk 20,700.
13.          At project completion, the re-estimated annual net farm incomes have been based on the
actual and projected cropping patterns and farmn budgets data of the crop production monitoring and
impact evaluation studies conducted at the six sub-projects (Tables 14,15 and 17-24), and the average
1995 farm gate prices of outputs and inputs (Table 32). On this basis, annual net farm incomes are re-
estimated to increase by 33%-61% from about Tk 13,159-Tk 17,972 in WOP to Tk 17,540-Tk 28,995
in WP for 4 FCD sub-projects, and by 12%-15% from Tk 38,707-Tk 41,619 in WOP to Tk 43,366-Tk
47,893 in WP for 2 irrigation sub-projects. The re-estimated incremental annual net farm incomes are
Tk 4,380-Tk 11,000, reflecting real decreases of 40%-50% below the appraisal estimates. As noted
earlier (paras. 7, 9), the lower incremental cropping intensities (SMB and Harbang Chara sub-projects)
4



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control. Drainage and Irigation Project (Cr. l870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Finanicial and Economic Re-evaluation
and incremental crop yields (CIP, Harbang Chara and SMB sub-projects), and the substantially higher
prices of hired labour and draft animals are the main factors contributing to lower farm incomes.
C. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
14.        At appraisal, the estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) of the six appraised fully
planned SSFCDI sub-projects, including Singimari Beel, Laithi River, Srinagar Mawa Bhagyakul
(SMB), Polder 55J2A, Chandpur Irrigation Extension (CIP) and Harbang Chara, ranged from 19% to
40%, and averaged at 31% for both the combined six appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects and
the SSFCDI component. The economic costs and benefits of the flood rehabilitation works were not
analyzed though their benefits were significant but not readily quantifiable, and thus no analysis was
undertaken. The following assumptions were used in the analysis:
construction would begin in FY89 and be completed in FY93. The analysis was
undertaken in 1987 constant prices and the period of analysis was 25 years;
only the costs directly associated with the fully planned and appurtenant
structure sub-projects were counted. Taxes and duties, land acquisition costs and
price contingencies were excluded. Local costs were further adjusted by a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80;
O&M costs per ha were estimated at Tk 860/year in financial terms. To convert
this to economic values the labour component, estimated at 60%, was adjusted
by the labour conversion factor (CF) of 0.75. The balance was adjusted by SCF;
among the key variables affecting project viability were crop yields, cropping
patterns and cropping intensities. Projections of these factors were discussed in
Chapter V and detailed in Annex 10 of the SAR along with farm models. The
analysis assumed that project-induced changes in these factors would take about
three years from the time of completion of project works, and
the Bank's February 1987 price projections were used where applicable for
traded goods. For other goods, domestic financial prices were converted to
economic prices using SCF. Averages of projected prices over the period of
analysis were used for each good.
5



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Inigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Appeiidix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
15.        The ICR economic re-evaluation follows the appraisal assumptions. The main differences
are:
construction of the SSFCDI component began in FY89 and is expected to be
completed in FY97. The analysis has been undertaken in 1995 constant prices
over the period of 25 years;
the actual expenditures of the 107 sub-projects completed by the December 31,
1995 Closing Date and the completion costs of the remaining 13 sub-projects
have been included in the analysis (Tables 25-31). The actual expenditures have
been further restated in 1995 constant prices using the wholesale price index.
Land acquisition costs have been valued at the net production benefits in WOP.
Local costs have been further adjusted by a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
of 0.90;
(O&M costs are estimated at 3% of the construction/reconstruction costs of sub-
project,
crop yields, cropping patterns and cropping intensities are based on the crop
production monitoring and impact evaluation conducted for the six appraised
FCDI sub-projects as shown in Tables 1, 4, 7, 10, and 13-16. These averaged
crop yields, cropping patterns intensities and total net cultivated areas of 282,654
ha generated by 121 sub-projects have been used as a basis for the economic re-
evaluation of the SSFCDI component; and
the Bank's January 1996 price projections have been used where applicable for
traded goods, (Table 26). The averages of 2000-2005 projected prices have been
used in the analysis. For other goods, domestic financial prices have been
converted to economic prices using SCF of 0.90 (Table 25).
16.        On this basis, except the Harbang Chara sub-project, the ERRs re-estimated at project
completion for five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects range from 12.5% to 37.4% (see Tables 35-40)
compared to 26%-40% estimated at appraisal. The lower ERRs are due mainly to delayed accrual of
project benefits resulting from about 2-4 years delays in completion of construction, lower incremental
cropping intensities and incremental crop yields (para. 13) and the substantially higher prices of the
unskilled labour and draft animals. Due to insufficient irrigation water resulting in 30% lower
incremental cropping intensities and 60% lower incremental crop yields, the re-estimated ERR of the
Harbang Chara sub-project is low at only 2.4% compared to 19.4% estimated at appraisal. The re-
estimated ERRs are 22.8% for the combined six appraised fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects (Table
41) compared to 31% estimated at appraisal. Using the average cropping intensities and crop yields of
the six fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects, the re-estimated ERR of the SSFCDI component is 37.8%
6



BANGLADESII: Secoiud Smaillh-ac Hlood Control. Drainage and Irigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD)
Imph.n-netalion Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
(Table 42). The higher ERR for the SSFCDI component is due to the substantial increases in the
benefitted areas (13%) and the early accrual of project benefits resulting from the early completion of
sub-projects, in particular the completion of the appurtenant sub-projects from FY89 onwards.
17.        Sensitivity analysis. A viable and sustainable O&M  system is presently not in place.
Unless steps are taken to ensure proper O&M of completed sub-projects, the potential full production
benefits would not be sustained. A lack of O&M plans, inadequate O&M funds, inability of BWDB
and beneficiaries to carry out regular O&M activities or a combination of these activities would result
in the deterioration of infrastructures of sub-projects and consequently reduce the cropped areas and
production of mainly HYV paddy.6 The sensitivity analysis carried out by the ICR mission indicates
that a reduction in the cropped areas of HYV paddy  from  10% to 30%  over five-year period
commencing from year 6 after completion of construction would result in about 10/o-25% decreases in
the production benefits and would lower the ERRs of the five fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects by
1%-4%, whilst the ERR of the Harbang Chara sub-project would be negative (Tables 43-48). An
average 15% reduction in production benefits would lower the re-estimated ERR of the combined six
fully planned SSFCDI sub-projects by 1% and the SSFCDI component by 6% (Tables 49-50). The
sensitivity analysis also indicates that ERRs are not sensitive to substantial reduction in production
benefits. Except the Harbang Chara and Singimari Beel sub-projects, ERRs of the four fully planned
FCDI sub-projects, the combined six fully planned sub-projects and the SSFCDI component are still
favourable at 15%-36%, 21.5% and 31.8% respectively.
6 A reduction in HYV amnan area is offset by an increase in local aman (L) area.
7



BHANGI AI)IlS 1: Sciond Small-scale Flood Conlrol. Drainage and Irrigationi l'rojecc (Cr. I 870-BD)
Implemienitation Complction Rcport
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
M:\ssfcd2\BGD-APX3 .DOC
6/26
8



BANGLADESH: Second SmaLl-scnle Flood Control. Drainage and Irrigation Project
lIrplementation Coxptetion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis - Singimari Beel Sub-project
Pre-ProJect!'                             Future without Project"l                           Future with ProjectV'
Item                        Cropped Area        Yield         Production    Cropped Area          Yield       Production    Cropped Area           Yield        Production
(ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)             (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)             (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)
B. Aus                              366              1.2             439              277             1.2            332                30             1.2              36
T. Aman (L)                         903              1.8           1,625              903             1.8          1,625              402              2.0             804
T. Aman (HYV)                         55             3.7             204               55             3.7            204              644              3.7           2,447
Boro (HYV)                           311             4.2           1,306              400-'           4.2          1,680              607              4.5           2,732
Jute                                311              1.4             435              311             1.4            435               276             1.7             469
Wheat                                 85             1.8             153               85              1.8            153               92             2.0             1at.
Potato                                                -                                -               -               -               140'            6.8             952
Total Cropped Area                2,031                                             2,031                                           2,191
Net Cultivated Area               1,240                                             1,240                                           1,240
Cropping intensity (X)               164                                              164.                                             177
!' Based on SAR.
" Based on data provided by PIU of BWDB.
" Assumed that the boro area would increased from 311 ha (pre-project) to 400 ha by a further increase in tubewell irrigation, which is possible without project
works.
4' Includes small area of other high value crops such as tobacco and garlic.



BANGLADESII: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Iwptemntatlon Cctpqction Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Ne-evaluatlon
Table 2.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement!' (per ha) used for Analysis   Singimarl LCle  Sub-project
I                         ~~~~~~~~Fertilizer                                                  Lhu
Item                                      Yield                           FetltrSeed                                     |Pesticides         Labour         Bullocks
Urta Y        TSP          K HP   I   Compost                                                       ulo
(ton)         (kg)          (kg)         (kg)       (man/day)         (kg)           (Tk         (man-day)       (pair-day)
Pre-project/Future without Project
-B. Aus                                    1.2           30            1S           -             -             100                            145             44
-T. Aman (L)                               1.8            10            -                          -             45              -             136             40
-T. Amn (HYV)                              3.7           85            45            *             *             40              -             160             42
-  oro (HYV)                               4.2           150           80           10             *             45             250            185             40
- Jute                                     1.4           20             -            *            40             16             180            1n              45
-IUheat                                    1.8           130           40           10             *             96                             78             42
Future with Project
-B. Aus                                    1.2            30           1S            -             -            100              -             145             44
-T. Aman (L)                               2.0            20            *            -             -             45              -             140             40
- T. Amon (HYV)                            3.7            85           45            *             -             40              -             160             42
- Boro  HTYV)                              4.5           160           85           15             -             45             250            190             40
- Jute                                     1.7            25            -            5            40             16             188            175             45
- Uheat                                    2.0           150           40           10                           96              60             80             42
- Potato                                   6.8           200           95           40           100            100            1i8             170             45
! Estimated based on data provided by PIU of 1WDB and Sub-project Feasibility Report.



BANGLADESII:  Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation ProJect
lcptementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis!' (Financial)   Singimari Beel Sub-project
Gross Return                                                   Cost of Inputs
Item                                                                                                                                                              Net
Item                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fcrtillzcr                                                        R eHtutrns
Product    By-product       TotalrUrea   |   TSP  i               HP         Other      LabourY      Bullocksl'      Total
Pre-project/Future                            .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    (Tk)   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
without Project
- B. Aus                           7,878        1,313         9,191        189         141          -          700         2.175          642         3,847          5,344
- T. Amon (L)                     11,817        2,000        13,817         63          *                      315         2,040          584         3,002         10,815
- T. Ankan (IIYV)                 24,291        2,315        26,606        536         423          -          280         2,400          613         4,252         22,354
- Boro (IIYV)                     27,573        2,625        30,198        945         752          83         565         2,775          5B4         5,704         24,494
- Jute                             7,350          910         8,260        126          -           -          412         2,595          657         3,790          4,470
- Wheat                           11,700          720        12,420        819         376          83         864         1,170          613         3,925          8,1.95
Future with Project
- B. Aus                           7,878        1,313         9,191        189         141          -          700         2,175          642         3,847          5,344
- T. Aman (L)                     13,130        2,188        15,318        126                                 315         2,100          584         3,125         12,193
- T. Aman (IIYV)                  24,291        2,313        26,604        536         423          -          280         2,400          613         4,252         22,352
- Boro (HYV)                      29,543        2,813        32,356      1,008         799         125         565         2,850          584         5,931         26,425
- Jute                             8,925        1,105        10,030        158                      42         420         2,625          657         3,902          6,128
- Wheat                           13,000          800        13,800        945         376          B3         924         1,200          613         4,141          9,659
- Potato                          20,060          -          20,060      1,260         893         332       1,188         2,550          657         6,880         13,180
Financial prices are given in Table 25.
Hired labour only;  assumed one-third of total requirement.
ZOX of total requirement as per SAR assumption.



BANCLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
InplementatIon Coptettion Report
Appendix 3: Financial ard Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis!' - Laithi River Sub-project
Item                                      Pre-Project!'                            Future without Project"                           Future with ProJect!'
Cropped Area       Yield        Production    Cropped Area         Yield       Production    Cropped Area           Yield      Production
(ha)         (ton/ha)         (ton)            (ha)          (ton/ha)        (ton)            (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)
*. Aus                                              -               -                                                              97             0.9             87
9. Aman                            160             1.2             192                                                                             -               -
1. Aman tL)                        405             1.6            648              355             1.6            568             480             1.8            864
T. Amon (HYV)                       -               -               -               50             2.7            135             161             3.0            483
Boro (HYV)                         645             3.2          2,064              850'            3.2         2,720              958             4.0          3,832
Sugarcane                                                   -                                       -                              80            35.0          2,800
Pulses                               -                                                              .              .                75-           1.1              83
Total Cropped Area               1,210                                           1,255                                          1,851
Net Cultivated Area              1,210                                           1,210                                          1,210
Cropping Intensity (X)              100                                            104                                            153
! Based on SAR.
tl Based on data provided by PIU of BUDB.
I Assumed that the boro area would increased from 645 ha (pre-project) to 850 ha by a further increase in tubeweltl irrigation in medium and high lands, which is
possible without project works.
Includes small area of groundnuts.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Orainage and Irrigation Project
Iwplcmentation Cowpiet ion Report
Appendix 3: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table S.   Crop Yield and Input Requirements!' used for Analysis   Laithi River Sub-project
Fertilizer
Item                                     Yield    |           -  I                             Compost           Seed        Pesticides        Labour         Blullocks
I        |  ~~Urea          TSP     |     HP     | CoAnpOst      |                        _     
(ton)         (kg)          (kg)         (kg)        (man/day)         (kg)            (Tk          (man-day)      (pair-day)
Pre-project/Future without Project
-. Aman (L)                                   1.2            -            *            -                            100              -              100              40
- T. Aamn (L)                                 1.6                   -            -                    -              45              -              130              42
-T. Amen (HYV)                                2.7           100           45           20             -              45              -              150              45
- foro (HYV)                                  3.2           125           70           20             -              40             250             175              46
Future with Project
-. Aus                                        0.9            -            -             -            50              75              -              105              40
- T. Aman (L)                                 1.8            -            -             -             -              45              -              135              42
- T. Aman (HYV)                               3.0           110           SO           20                            45              -              155              45
- Soro (HYV)                                 4.0            18O          90            35             -              40             300             180              46
- Sugarcane                                 35.0            170          100           30            100          5,000             450             250              50
- Pulses                                      1.1            -            -             -             -              30              -               SO              25
!' Estimated based on data provided by PIU by OBDB and Sub-project Feasibility Report (Amnex 5).



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
lqptemcntation Conpletion Report
Appendix 3: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis!' (Financial) * Laithi River Sub-project
Gross Return                                                 Cost of Inputs
I tem                                                                                                                                                        Net
Ite                       .                              ~~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~ ~~~~Fertilizer    . .                                ReHturns
Product    By-product      Total       Urea       eTl                 |  Other       Labour1'    BulIocks'       Total
Pre-projectlFuture                          .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  . .(k)   .  .    .  .  .    .  .   .  .  .    .  .  .    .    .  .    .   .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .
without Project
7,878        1,313        9,191         -                      -          700        1,500         584         2,7R4         6,407
- T. Aman (L)                    10,504       1,750        12,254        -                       -         315         1,950         613         2,265         9,989
- T. Aman (HIV)                  17,726       1,688        19,414       630         423         166         315        Z,250         657         4,441        14,973
- Boro (HYV)                    21,008        2,000        23,008       788         658         166        530         2,625         672         5,439        17,569
Future with Project
- *. Aus                         5,909        1,000         6,909                                          675         1,575         584         2,834         4,075
T 1. Axon (L)                   11,817        2,000        13,817        -           -           -         315         2,025         613         2,953        10,864
- T. Aman (MTV)                 19,695        1,875        21,570       693         470         166        315         2,325         657         4,626        16,944
- Soro (MTV)                    26,260        2,500        28,760     1,134       1,786         291        580         2,700         672         7,163        21,597
- Sugarcane                     66,500           -         66,500     1,071         940         249      10,450        3,750         730        17,190        49,316
- Pulses                         11,550          -         11,550         -          -           -         360           750         365          1,475        10,075
!  Finncial prices are given in Table 25.
H Mired labour only; assumed one-third of total requircuent.
F  20X of total requirements as per SAR assu,ption.



BANGLADESII: Second Smatl-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
lIplementation Compietion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis - Srinagar-Hawa-Bhagyakul Sub-project
Item                                        Pre-ProJect"l                             Future without Project"                             Future with Project!'
Cropped Area        Yield        Production    Cropped Area          Yield    |Production    Cropped Area             Yield        Production
(ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)             (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)             (ha)          (ton/ha)          (ton)
B. Aus                                .                               .                .                               -               295             0.9             266
B. Amon                            1,047             1.4           1,466              9417            1.4           1,326              384             1.5             576
Kixed Aus/Aman                       678             1.6           1,085              648              1.6          1,037              270             1.8             486
T. Awan (L)                           -               -                                                 .              .               110             1.9             209
T. Aman (HYV)                         .               .               .                .                                                70             2.5             175
Boro (HYV)                           570             4.2           2,394              7002'           4.2           2,9'.0           1,266             4.3           5,570
Wheat (HYV)                          100             1.8             180              100              1.8            435               60             1.8              108
Pulses                                50             0.7              41               58             0.7              41              270             0.9             243
Oilseeds                             150             0.6              90              150             0.6              90               70             0.6               42
Potato                                60            13.8             828               60             13.8            828               40             13.8            552
Spices                                60             2.8             168               60             2.8             168               25!'           2.8               70
Total Cropped Area                2,723                                             2,723                                            2,860
Met Cultivated Area                2,295                                            2,295                                            2,295
Cropping Intensity (X)               119                                              119                                              124
B Based on SAR.
B Based on data provided by PIU of BUDB.
2' Assumed that the boro area would increased from 570 ha (pre-project) to 700 ha by a further Increase in tubewell irrigation in mediun and high Lands, which Is
possible without project works.
Includes small area of winter vegetabtcs.



BANGLADESH:  Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
In,plementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 8.   Crop Yield and Input Requiremwntl' (per ha) used for Analysis - Srinagar-Hawa-Bhagyakul Sub-project
Item                                   Yield                           Fertilizer                                        Pesticides       Labour         Bullocks
Ite  |   |    Urea    |    TsP    | MHP  |   Compost    Seed 
(ton)         (kg)          (kg)         (kg)       (man/day)         (kg)           (Tk         (man-day)       (pair-day)
Pre-project/Future without Project
-B. Aman                                   1.4            -             -                          -              90                            90             42
- Mixed Aus/Aman                           1.6            -             -            -                           100                           110             42
- Boro (HYV)                               4.2           124           50           12             -              45            300            172             42
- Wheat (HYV)                              1.8            90           30           10             -             100             -              90             40
- Pulses                                   0.7            -             -                          -              40             -              45              18
-Oitseeds                                  0.6            -             -            *             -               9             -              60             35
- Potato                                  13.8            59           32           25             -           1,000             -             165             45
- Spices                                   2.8            25           17           10             -               I             -             125             50
Future withi Project
- s. Aus                                   0.9            -             -            -             -              70             -             120             30
B. Aman                                    1.5            -             *                          -              90                            90             42
- Mixed Aus/Amon                           1.8            -             ,            .             .             100                           110             42
-T. Aman (L)                               1.9            30           10                   -                     40             -             120             40
- T. Aman (IITYV)                          2.5            90           30           15             -              45             -             150              44
- Boro (HrV)                               4.4           160           60           20             -              45            300            175              42
- Wheat (HYV)                              1.8            90           30           10             -             100             -              90              40
-Pulses                                    0.7            -             -            -             -              40             -              45              18
-Oilseeds                                  0.6                   -            -                    -               9             -              60             35
- Potato                                  13.8            59           32           25             *           1,000                           165             45
- Spices                                   2.8            25           17           10                             1             -             125              50
Estimated based on date provided by PIU of SWO and Sub-project Feasibility Report (Annex 5).



BANGLADESH: Sccond Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage ond Irrigation Project
lmplecmentation Corrpletion Report
Appendix 3: Financiai and Economic Re-cvaluation
Table 9.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis!' (Financial)   Srinagar-Hawa-Bhagyakul Sub-project
Gross Return                                                  Cost or Inputs
I tern                                                                           Fertilizr                                                                        M aouZet
Product    By-product       Total        Urea        TSP                     Otier      Labour       ullocks        Total        Returns
I ~ ~~~                                   ~      ~~~~~~~~~ I      Ure          TS I.
Pre-project/Future..                                                                   .             (Tk) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
without Project
- B. Amon                           9,191          156         9,347               -                 -          630         1,350         613         2,593         6,754
- Mixed Aus/Aman                   10,504        1,750        12,254         -                       -          700         1,650         613         2,963         9,291
- Boro (IIYV)                      27,573        2,625        30,198        781         470         100         615         2,580         613         5,159        25,039
- Wheat  fiIrv)                    11,700          720        12,420        567         282          83         900         1,350         584         3,766          8,654
- Pulses                            7,350                      7,350                                 -          480           675         263          1,418        5,932
* oilsccds                          5,850                      5,150         -           -           -           99           900         511          1,510        4,340
- Potato                           40,710                     40,710        372         301         208       7,000         2,475         657         11,013       29,697
- spices                           38,500                     38,500        158         160          83         153         1,875         730         3,159        35,341
Future with Project
- B. Aus                            5,909        1,000         6,909         -           -            -         490         1,800         555         2,845         4,064
- B. Ankmn                          9,88,        1,625        11,473                     -            -         630         1,350         613          2,593        8,880
Mixed Aus/Aman                     11,817        1,938         13,755        -            -           -          700        1,650         613          2,963        10,792
- T. Aman (L)                      12,474        2,063        14,537        189          94           -         280         1,800         584         2,947        11,590
- T. Amon (IIYV)                   16,413        1,563        16,976        567         282          125        315         2,250         642          4,181        12,795
- Boro (HYV)                       28,886        2,750        31,636      1,008         564         166         615         2,625         613          5,591        26,045
- Wheat (HYV)                      11,700          7z0        12,420        567         282          83         900         1,350         584         3,766          8,654
- Pulses                            7,350          -           7.350         -                                  480           675         263          1,418        5,932
- Oilseeds                          5,850          -           5,850         -            -           *           99          900         511          1,510         4,340
- Potato                           40,710          -          40,710        372         301         208       7,000         2,475         657         11,013        29,697
Spices                           38,500          -          38,500        158         160          83         153         1,875         730         3,159         35,341
1'  Financial prices are given in Table 25.
'  Hired labour only;  assumed one-third of total requirement.
l' Z0X of total requiremcnt as per SAR assumption.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Irplementatlon Conptetion Report
Appendix 3: financial and Econooic Re-evaluation
Table 10.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis   Polder 55/2A Sub-project
Pre-ProJect!'                          Future without Projectl'                        Future with Project!'
Item
Cropped Area       Yield       Production    Cropped Area        Yield       Production    Cropped Area       Yield        Production
(ha)         (ton/ha)        (ton)            (ha)         (ton/ha)        (ton)           (ha)         (ton/ha)         (ton)
B. Aus                           1,195           0.7            837            1,195            0.7           837            1,550           1.1           1,705
T. Aus (L)                         495           0.7            347              495            0.7           347            1,030           1.3           1,339
T. Amen (L)                      5,115            1.4         7,161            5,115            1.4         7,161            5,160           2.2          11,352
T. Aoan (MTV)                                      .      -                                                                    220           3.3             726
Pulses                             125           0.5             63              125            0.5            63              600           1.0             600
Oltseeds                                                                          .                                             145k1        0.6              87
Spices                              40            1.8            72              85             1.8           153              165           1.8             297
Sveet Potato                                                     -               -               -                             140          12.0           1,680
Usternmton                          20           14.8           296                20          14.8           296
Totat Cropped Area               6,990                                         6,990                                         9,010
Met Cultivated Area              5,670                                         5,670                                         5,670
Cropping Intensity (t)            123                                            123                                          159
B Dased on SAR.
Based on data provided by PIU of sWDO.
' Includes small area of grourdnuts.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scate Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
IqlpIeentat Ion Coapletion Rcport
Appcndix 3: Financlal and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 11.   Crop Yield and Input Requirement!' (per ha) used for Analysis   Polder 55/2A Sub-project
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~fertilizer                                                            I       -      I               I               I
Item                                    Yield         IUrea           TPMPCompt I                                5eed        r Pesticides      Labour         Cullocks
(ton)          (kg)         (kg)          (kg)        (man/day)         (kg)            (Tk         (man-day)       (pair-day)
Pre-projectlFuture without Project
-S. Aus                                     0.7             -             -             -             -              80              -              130              30
-T. Aus (L)                                 0.7             -             -                           -              40              -              135              30
- T. Amn (L)                                 1.4                   -             -           -        -              48              -              135              40
-Pulses                                     0.5             -             -                                          30              -40                             20
-Spices                                      l.8 a                                                    -               5              -              150              30
-Uatermelon                                 14.                                                                       1                             173              25
Future with Project
-B. Aus                                      1.1             -            -             -            50              80              -              130              32
-1. Aus (L)                                  1.3            30            10            -             -              40              -              140              33
- T. Aman (L)                                2.2            30            10                          60             48              -              140              42
- T. Aman C(YV)                             3.3             60            20                                         45              62             160              43
-Pulses                                      1.0            -             -             -             -              40              -               40              20
- Oltseeds                                   0.6            30            50                          -              10               -              70              30
- Spices                                     1.8            -             -             -             -               5                             150              30
- Sweet Potato                              12.0            -             -             -             -              150'             -             125              20
1' Estiamted based on data provided by PIU of SUD8 and Sub-project Feasibility Report (Annex S).
t' Vine cuttings.



BANGLADESII: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Droinoge and Irrigation Proicct
Irrptemcntation Corpnletion Report
Appcndix 3: Financial and Economic Re-cvaluation
Table 12.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis (Financial)Y'  Polder SS/2A Sub-project
Gross Return                                                  Cost of Inputs
Item                                                                                                                                                              Nct
Product    By-product |lTotal            Ura          TSP          P         Other      Labour"'   Bullocksi/    Total   |
Pre-project/Future. . . .                                 .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .  (T ) . . . .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .
without Project
- D. Aus                            4,596          750         5,346         -                                   560        1.950         438          2,948         2,898
- T. Aus (L)                        4,596          750         5,34.6        *           -            -          280        2,025         438          2,743         2,603
- T. Aman (L)                       9,191        1,563        10,754         -           -                      336         2,025         628          2,989         7,765
- Putscs                            5,250          -           5,250         -                                   360          600         292          1,252         3,998
- Spices                           24,750                     24,750         -                                   765        2,250         438          3,453        21,297
- Watcrmelon                       44,400          -          37,000                      -                        9        2,595         365          2,969        34,031
Future with Project
-. Aus                              7,222        1,188         8,410         -            -           -          710        1,950         467          3,127         5,283
- T. Aus (L)                        8,535        1,438         9,9T3        189          94           *          280        2,100         481          3,144         6,829
- T. Aman (L)                      14,443        2,438         16,881       189          94           -          516        2,100         613          3,512        13,369
- T. Aman CHYV)                    21,665        2,063        23,728        378          188          -          377        2,400          628         3,971        19,757
- Pulses                           10,500          -           10,500        -            -           -          480          600          292         1,372         9,128
- Oilse ds                          5,850           -           5,850       189         470           -          110        1,050          438         2,257         3,523
- Spices                           24,750           -         24,750          -           -           -          765        2,250          438         3,453         2,297
- Sweet Potato                     14,400           -          14,400        -            -           -          188        1,875          292         2,355        12,045
f' Financial prices are given in Tabte 25.
' Hlired labour only; assumcd one-third of total requiremcnt based on Sub-project Evaluation survey data (1995).
- 20X of total requirement as per SAR assumption.



BANGLADESII:  Second Smaol-scate Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
lpltementation Cofrpetion Report
Appencdix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 13.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis - CIP Sub-project
Pre-Project1'                            Future without Project"                            Future with Project"
Cropped Area        Yield       Production    Cropped Area          Yield       Production    Cropped Area          Yie1d        Production
(ha)         (ton/ha)          (ton)            (Ila)         (ton/ha)        (ton)             (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)
B. Aman                             260             1.4             364              160             1.4            224              110             1.4              154
T. Amnm  (IIYV                      720             3.7           2,664             720             3.7          2,664               789             3.7           2,919
Boro (IIYV)                         650             5.5           3,575              7501'           5.5         4.125               891             5.5           4,901
Wheat (HYV)                         100             2.0             200              100             2.0            200               12             2.2               26
Potato                                40           13.8             552               40            13.8            552               660'          13.8              911
Oilseeds                             60             0.7              42               60             0.7             42               20             0.7               14
Spices                                50            1.8              90               50             1.8             90               -               .
Pulses                               80             0.9              72               80             0.9             72               -
Sugarcane                            .               .               .                .                              -                 51           30.5            1,556
Jute                                 -                                                                                                 2 .  .  21    2.4               50
Total Cropped Area                 1,960                                            1,960                                           1,960
Net Cultivated Area                  980                                              980                                             980
Cropping Intensity (I)              200                                              200                                             200
B' Based on SAR.
B' Based on data provided by PIU of BWOB and Crop Production Honitoring Report (Draft) for CIP sub-project.
"  Assumed that the boro (HVV) area woutd increase to 750 ha from 650 ha (pre-project) by further extraction of irrigation water from conal.
" Includcs small area of vegetables.



BANGLADESH: Second Smalt-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Iiplementation CotpIetion Report
Appendix 3: Financiat and Economic Re-caluation
Table 14.   Crop Yield and Input Requirements!' (per ha) used for Analysis - CIP Sub-project
Fertilizer
Item                                     Yield                   I                          I                    Seed        Pesticides        Labour         Bullocks
Urea          TSP           HP         Compost
(ton)         (kg)          (kg)         (kg)        (man/day)         (kg)             (Tk         (man-day)       (pair-day)
Pre-project/Future without Project &
Future with Project
- 8. hain                                     1.4                                -                    -              100              -             105              40
- T. Aman (HYV)                               3.7           160           75           25             -               40             160            160              42
- Boro (IIYV)                                 5.5           220          125           50             -               45             200            180              42
- Wheat (HYV)                                 2.2           100           50           25                            120              -              85              40
- Potato                                     13.8            50           40           35            100           1,000              -             200              50
- Oilseeds                                    0.7            -             -            -             -               10              -              75              35
- SpIces!'                                    1.8            25           25            10            -                7              -             150              30
- PulsCsI'                                    0.9                   -                    -                            30              -              46              30
S Sugarcancy                                 30.5           150          100           30             50           5,000!'           250            250              50
- Jutel,                                      2.4            40           20            5              -              10              60            200              45
!' Estimated based on data provided by PIU by BDWB and Sub-project Feasibility Report (Annex 5).
3 Applicable to pre-project and 'without project' only.
-' Applicabtc to 'with project' only.
C cuttings.



BANGLADESH: Second Smalt-scale Flood Control, Orainage and irrigation Project
luplewentation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 15.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis!' (Financial) - CIP Sub-project
Gross Return                                                Cost of Inputs
Item                                                                                                                                                         Net
Item  Fertilizer                                                           Returns
Product    By-product      Total       Urea                              Other      LabourY    Bu locks"l    Total
Pre-project/Future  without                   .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .     .  .  .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .  .  (Tk/ha)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Project A Future with Project
- B. Aman                           9.191        1,563       10.754         *          -          *          700        1,575         584        2,859         7,895
- T. Aman (HYV)                   24,291        2,313        26,604      1,008        705        208         440        2,400         613        5,374        21,230
- Boro (HYV)                       36,108       3,438        39,546      1,386      1,175        415         515        2,700         613        6,804        32,742
UWheat (HYV)                       14,300         880        15,180       630         470        208       1,080        1,275         584        4,247         10,933
- Potato                          40,710           -         40,710       315         376        291       7,300        3,000         730        12,012       28,698
- Oilseeds                         6,825           -          6,825         -          -                     110        1,125         511         1,746         5,079
- Spices                           24,750                    24,750        156        235         83       1,071        Z,250         438        4,230         20,520
- Pulses                            9,450          -          9,450         -                                360          690         438         1,488         7,962
- Sugarcane                        57,950          -         57,950        945        940        249      1O,250        3,750         730        16,864        41,086
- Jute                             12,600        1,560        14.160       252        188         42         280        3,000         657        4,419          9,741
' Financial prices are given in Table 25.
H Nired labour only; assumed one-third of total requirement.
-  20% of total requirement as per SAR assuwption.



BANGLADESH: Secord Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
lrptementation Completlon Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 16.   Cropped Area:  Yield and Production used for Analysis - llarbang Chara Sub-project
Item                                       Pre-Projecti'                             Future without Project1                           Future with Project1
Cropped Area        Yield        Production    Cropped Area         Yield        Production    Cropped Area         Yield        Production
(ha)         (ton/ha)          (ton)            (ha)          (ton/ha)         (ton)            (ha)          (ton/ha)          (ton)
T. Aus                               67             3.0             201               67             3.0            201               10             3.0              30
T. Aman (L)                          27             1.5              41               27             1.5             41
T. AMan (HYV)                       243             4.5           1,094              243             4.5          1,094              267             4.5           1,202
Boro (NYV)                          10o             5.0             540              108             5.0            540              1841'           5.0             920
Total Cropped Area                  445                                              445                                             4.61
Net Cultivated Area                 270                                              270                                             270
Cropping Intensity (X)              165                                              165                                             170
Y Based on SAR.
1/ Estimated based on data provided by PIU of BIOS.
ln IncLudes small area of other crops.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainagc and Irrigation Project
lIplementation Coamptction Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 17.   Crop Yield and Input Requirements!' (per ha) used for Analysis   ilarbang Chara Sub-project
Fertilizer
Item                                     Yield                                                                   Seed        Pesticides        Labour    | Bullocks
Urea          TSP          MP          ComposL 
(ton)         (kg)          (kg)         (kg)        (man/day)         (kg)            (Tk          (man-day)      (pair-day)
Pre-project/Future without Project &
Future with Project
- T. Aus (HYV)                                3.0           100           30           10                            40              100            135              42
T T. Aman (L)I'                               1.5            30           20           10             -              40               -             130              4.0
- T. Aman (HYV)                               4.5           150          60            15                            45             160             150              42
- Boro (HYV)                                  5.0           170           90           25             -              50             160             115              45
S' Estimated based on data provided by PIU by BWDB and Sub-project Fcasibility Report (Annex 5).
t' For pre-project and 'Future without project' only.



BANGLADESII: Second Small-scalc Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Implementation Compiction Report
Appendix 3: financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 18.   Crop Budget (per ha) used for Analysis!' (Financial) - CIP Sub-project
Gross Return                                                Cost of Inputs
Fertilizer                                                                 Returns
Product    By-product      Total                                         Other      Labour?'   Bullocks!'    Total
__ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _  _Urea  I  TSP  MP
Pre-project/Future  without                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .Tk/ha)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Project A Future with Project
- T. Aus (IIYV)                    19,695        1,875       21,570        630        282         83         300        2,025         613         3,933        17,637
- T. Aman (L)                       9,848        1,625       11,473        89        188         83         280        1,950         584         3,274        8,199
- T. Aman (HYV)                    29,543       2,813        32,356        945        564        125         440        2,250         613         4,937       27,419
- Boro (MTV)                       32,824       3,125        35.948      1,071        846        208         S10        2,775         657         6,067        29,881
!r Financial prices are given in Table 25.
H' Hired labour only; assumed one-third of total requirement.
' 20X of total requirement as per SAR assumption.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Implemientation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 19. Farm Incomes - Singimari Beel Sub-project
1.            Size of Farm Model:          1.0 ha
2.            Cropping Pattern:
Crops                                           Pre-project   Without project    With project
.......... (ha) .
-  B. Aus                                               0.30              0.23                0.02
-  T. Aman (L)                                          0.73              0.73               0.32
-  T. Aman (HYV)                                        0.04              0.04               0.52
-  Boro (HYV)                                           0.25              0.32               0.49
-  Jute                                                 0.25              0.25                0.22
-  Wheat                                                0.07              0.07               0.08
-  Potato                                                 -                 -
Total Cropped:                                       1.64              1.64                1.77
Cropping Intensity:                                 164%              164%                178%
3.            Farm Incomes:
Itean                                           Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........           ..........
-  Gross Value of Production                           24,391           25,861              40,492
-  Production cost                                      6,184            6,294               8,209
-  Irrigation cost1'                                    1.280             1.595              3.8
Net Return                                          16,927            17,972             28,995
Incremental!':                        11.023
' Bued on Tkl,500/ha for T. Amon (HYV), Tk14,500/ha for Boro, Tk1,350/ha for wheat and Tkl,625ha for potato.
F rWidu Project minus 'Without Project'.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Dmiraige and Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Rcport
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 20. FarTn Incomes - Laithi River Sub-project
1.           Size of Farm Model:         1.0 ha
2.           Cropping Pattem:
Crops                                         Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........  (ha) .
- B. Aus                                               -                                  0.08
-  B. Aman                                            0.14
- T. Aman (L)                                         0.33             0.30               0.40
-  T. Aman (HYV)                                       -               0.04               0.13
-  Boro (HYV)                                         0.53             0.70               0.79
-  Sugarcane                                           -                -                 0.07
-  Pulses                                                               -                 0.06
Total Cropped:                                     1.00             1.04               1.53
Cropping Intensity:                               100%             104%               153%
3.           Farrn Incomes:
Item                                          Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........          ..........
- Gross Value of Production                          17,525          20,559              36,952
-  Production cost                                   4,020            4,665               8,560
-  Irrigation costY'                                  2385             3 150              3.555
Net Return                                        11,120           12,744             24,437
Incremental!:                       11.693
Y Based on Tk4.500/ha for Boro (HYV).
Y'With Pmject' minms 'Wichout Project'.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Econornic Re-evaluation
Table 21. Farm Incomes - Srinigar-Mawa-Bhagyakul Sub-project
Size of Farm Model:         1.0 ha
2.            Cropping Pattern:
Crops                                         Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........  (ha) .
-  B. Aus                                               -                -                 0.13
-  B. Aman                                            0.45              0.4                0.17
-  Mixed Aus/Aman                                     0.29              0.28               0.12
-  T. Aman (L)                                          -                -                 0.05
-  T. Aman (HYV)                                                         -                 0.13
-  Boro (HYV)                                         0.25             0.30                0.55
-  Wheat (HYV)                                        0.04             0.04                0.03
-  Pulses                                             0.03             0.03                0.11
-  Oilseeds                                           0.07             0.07                0.03
-  Potato                                             0.07             0.03                0.01
-  Spices                                             0.07             0.03                0.01
Total Cropped:                                     1.19              1.19               1.24
Cropping Intensity:                                119%             119%               124%
3.            Farm Incomes:
Item                                          Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........          ..........
-  Gross Value of Production                         17,714            18,726             25,285
-  Production cost                                    4,041            4,168               5,254
-  Irrigation cost-'                                  1.174             1.399              22491
Net Return                                        12,499           13,159              17,540
Incremental11:                       4.381
Y Based on Tk4,500/ha for boro (HYV) and T11,625/ha for potato.
Y 'With Project' miinus 'Without Project'.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drinage and Irrigation Project
Imrplementudon Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Table 22. Farm Incomes - Polder 5512A Sub-project
Size of Farm Model:        1.0 ha
2.           Cropping Pattern:
Crops                               Pre-project/Without project             With project
.... ....... (ha).
-  B. Aus                                           0.21                             0.27
- T. Aus (L)                                        0.08                             0.18
- T. Aman (L)                                       0.09                             0.91
- T. Aman (HYV)                                                                      0.05
-  Pulses                                           0.02                             0.10
-  Oilseeds                                           -                              0.03
- Spices                                            0.01                             0.03
-  Sweet Potato                                       -                              0.02
-  Watermelon                                       0.01
Total Cropped:                                   1.23                             1.59
Cropping Intensity:                              164%                             159%
3.           Farm Incomes:
Crops                               Pre-project/Without project             With project
.......... ........k).
- Gross Value of Production                        11,953                           22,871
- Production cost                                   3,618                            5,161
-  Irrigation cost
Net Return                                       8,335                           17,710
Incremental:                                 9,375



BANGLADESH: Second Small-scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigadon Project
Implmcntation Compledon Report
Appendix 3: Finamcial and Economic Re-evaluadon
Table 23. Farm Incomes - CIP Sub-project
Size of Farm Model:       1.0 ha
2.           Cropping Pattern:
Crops                                       Pre-project   Without project    With project
.......... (ha) .
- B. Aman                                          0.27             0.16              0.11
- T. Aman (HYV)                                    0.74             0.74              0.81
- Boro (HYV)                                       0.66             0.77              0.91
- Wheat (HYV)                                      0.10             0.10              0.01
- Potato                                           0.04             0.04              0.07
- Oilseeds                                         0.06             0.06              0.02
- Spices                                           0.05             0.05                -
-  Pulses                                          0.08             0.08                -
- Sugarcane                                                          -                0.05
- Jute                                                -               -               0.02
Total Cropped:                                   2.00            2.00              2.00
Cropping Intensity:                             200%            200%              200%
3.           Farm Incomes:
Item                                        Pre-project   Without project    With project
..........         ..........
- Gross Value of Production                       54,241           57,408            66,039
- Production cost                                  10,581          11,014            12,893
- Irrigation cost1'                                4.280           4.775             _LM
Net Return                                     39,380           41,619            47,893
IncrementalW:                      6.274
Y Based on lk4,500/ha for Boro (HYV) and 7kl,500/ha for T. Aman, Tk,350/ha for wheat and Tk1,625/ha for potao.
Y With Project' minus 'Without Pmject'.



BANGLADESH: Second Small-ale Flood Control. Dminage and Irrigaton Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Financial and Economic Re-evaluaiion
Table 24. Farm Incomes - Harbang Chara Sub-project
1.           Size of Farm Model:        1.0 ha
2.           Cropping Pattern:
Crops                               Pre-project/Without project            With project
.......... (ha) .
- T. Aus (HYV)                                      0.25                            0.04
- T. Aman (L)                                       0.10
- T. Aman (HYV)                                     0.90                            0.98
-  Boro (HYV)                                       0.40                            0.68
Total Cropped:                                   1.65                            1.70
Cropping Intensity:                             163%                             170%
3.           Farm Incomes:
Crops                               Pre-project/Without project            With project
..........         .........k)
- Gross Value of Production                        50,037                          57,017
- Production cost                                   8,180                           9,121
- Irrigation cost'                                 3150                             4.530
Net Return                                      38,707                           43,366
Incremental:                                4,659
' Based on 7lli.500/ha for T. Aman (HYV) and Tk4,500Sha for Boro (HYV).



BANGLADESH                                         Table 25
Second Srmall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irirgation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Compleion Report
Expenditure-Polder 55/2A Subproject (Tk M)
FY88      FYa9      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      Total
Land Acquisition:
Hoctare                  0.00       0.00      0.00      9.30       3.10      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      12.40
Costs                     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.95      0.22      0.04       0.00      0.00      0.00       1.21
Civil Works:
Survey&lnvestigation      0.00      0.25                                                                               0.25
Construction              0.00      6.36      12.44      9.17      2.24       1.88      0.00      0.00       0.00     32.09
Food-For-Works            0.00      1.60       1.60      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.20
Engineedng&Admin. 1/      0.00      0.76       1.48      1.09      0.27       0.23      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.83
Total                   0.00      0.97      15.52     11.21      2.73       2.15      0.00      0.00       0.00     40.58
1/ Annual expenditures are not available. Thus, its annual expenditures have been proportionated according to annual expenditures of construction.
Source: PIU, BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                         Table 26
Second Srnall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1070-BD)
Implomentation Compleion Report
Expenditure-CIP Subproject (Tk M)
FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      Total
Land Acqusition:
Hectare                  0.00       0.00      0.00      3.50       6.90      1.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      11.90
Costs                     0.00      0.00      0.00       1.65      1.47      1.31      0.00       0.00      0.00       4.43
Civil Works:
Suivey&lnvestigation      0.00      0.10                                                                               0.10
Construction              0.00      1.27       0.27      1.15      1.75       2.64      1.42      0.00       0.00      8.50
Food-For-Works            0.00      0.45       0.10      0.40      0.60       0.93      0.52      0.00       0.00      3.00
Engineedng&Admin. 1/      0.00      0.20       0.05      0.20      0.30       0.40      0.20      0.00       0.00      1.35
Total                   0.00      2.02       0.42      3.40      4.12       5.28      2.14      0.00       0.00     17.38
1/ Annual expenditures are not available. Thus, its annual expenditures liave been proportionated according to annual expenditures of construction.
Source: PIU, BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                         Table 27
Second Small Scale Flood Control. Drainago and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Expenditure-Lailhi River Subproject (Tk M)
FYB8      FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      Total
Land Acqtisition:
Hectaro                  0.00       0.00      1.00      0.00       1.10      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      2.10
Costs                     0.00      0.00      0.16      0.00       0.29      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.45
Civil Works:
Survey&lnvestigation      0.00      0.00       0.10                                                                    0.10
Construction              0.00      0.00       6.29      1.92      0.57       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      8.78
Food-For-Works            0.00      0.00       2.30      0.80      1.30       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.40
Engineefing&Admin. 1/     0.00      0.00       1.05      0.30      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.43
Total                   0.00      0.00       9.90      3.02      2.24       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     15.16
1/ Annual expenditures are not available. Thus, Its annual expenditures have been proponionated according to annual expenditures of construction.
Source: PIU. BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                         Table 28
Second Smiall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1D70-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Expenditure-Singimari Beel Subproject (Tk M)
FYD8      FY09      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      Total
Land Acquisition:
Hectare                  0.00       0.00      1.90      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       1.90
Costs                    0.00       0.00      0.39      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.39
Civil Works:
Survey&investigation      0.00      0.08                                                                               0.08
Construction              0.00      0.62       3.09      1.94      0.53       0.94      0.26      0.00       0.00      7.38
Food-For-Works            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.50
Enginedng&Admin. 1/      0.00      0.10       0.35      0.20      0.05       0.10      0.06      0.00       0.00      0.86
Subtotal                 0.00       0.80      3.83      2.64       0.58      1.04      0.32       0.00      0.00      9.21
1/ Annual expenditures are not available. Thus, its annual expenditures have been proportionated according to annual expenditures of construction.
Source: PIU, BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                          Table 29
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irdgatlion Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implomentation Compledon Report
Expenditure-SMB Subproject (Tk M)
FY88      FY89       FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96 b/    Total
Land Acqusition:
Hectare                   0.00       0.00      0.20       2.40      0.90       3.40       0.90      6.70       3.50     18.00
Costs                     0.00       0.00      0.05       0.62      0.07       1.02       0.26      2.11       1.09      5.22
Civil Works:
Survey&lnvestigation
Construction               0.00      3.30       7.09      7.46       7.77       1.44      0.05       0.06      0.00      27.17
Rehabilitation                                                                                      12.28      6.57      1a.85
Additional structures                                                                                          6.60       6.60
Food-For-Works             0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       7.70       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       7.70
Engineedng&Admin. a/       0.00      0.45       1.00      1.05       1.10       0.18      2.07       0.00      0.00       5.85
Total                    0.00      3.7s       8.14      9.13      16.64      2.64       2.38      14.45     14.26      71.39
a/Annual expenditures aro not available. Thus, its annual expenditures liave bocn proportionatld according to annual expenditures ol construchion.
b/ Including completon costs for rehabilitation works and additional structures.
Sourco: PIU. BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                        Table 30
Socond Small Scale Flood Control, Drdnage and Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Expenditure-Harbang Chara Subproject (Tk M)
FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      Total
Land Acquisition:
Hectare                  0.00      0.00      1.30      5.20      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       6.50
Costs                    0.00      0.00      0.25      1.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.25
Civil Works:
Survey&lnvestigation     0.00      0.00       0.05                                                                  0.05
Construction             0.00      0.00      4.52       0.98      2.80      0.62      0.46      0.00      0.00      9.38
Food-For-Works           0.00      0.00      0.00       0.60      0.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.10
Engineedng&Admin. 1/     0.00      0.00      0.55       0.10      0.35      0.10      0.06      0.00      0.00      1.16
Total                  0.00       0.00      5.37      2.68      3.65      0.72      0.52      0.00      0.00     12.94
1/ Annual expenditures are not available. Thus, Its annual expenditures have been proportionated according to annual expenditures ol construction.
Source: PIU, BWDB.



BANGLADESH                                                  Tablo 31
Second Small Scalo Flood Contfol. Oratnago and Irrigation Proptct
(Cr. 1870-8D)
Impbomonlation Completion Report
Aclual Expmndilums-SSFCDI Civil Works (Tk M)
FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      FY97      Total
Land Acquisilton:
Hoclaro                               0        10      26.5       35.6      44.G      49.5       121      72.2      6.70      3.50    369.60
Costs                              0.63      3.00      2.57       8.52      7.93     12.72     17.78      1.65      2.11       1.09     58.00
Civil Works a/:
Survoy & Invostigatlon              0.01      0.48      1.65      1.91      1.60       1.85     0.11       0.10      0.00      7.16     14.87
Fully Planned Subprojects           0.00      7.10     21.86     21.35     16.24     50.14      61.80    132.86     24.75     19.15    355.25
AppurlonantStruclums&Rehab.         3.13     78.51     78.24    142.16    147.52    171.21    116.86    116.91      94.81      9.00    958.35
Food or Works                       1.37      0.00     46.88     44.42     67.15     71.55     58.60    141.00       3.15      0.90    435.02
Enghioering & Admln.                0.61      5.87     10.66     14.66     17.22     14.03     30.88      53.50      4.19              151.62
O&M Costs b/                        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.50      9.59      13.38     55.00     58.00    138.47
Total                              5.75     94.96    161.06    233.02    257.66    324.00    295.62    459.40    184.01       95.30   2111.58
a/lincluding compltlion costs of tho remaining works and additional struclums programmod to be comploted in FY96 and FY97 (see Appondix 2, Tables 5&6)
b/ Actual expenditums uplo FY95, and eslimated at 3% ol civil work costs for FY96 and thomallor.
Source: Projoct lmplom.ltation Unit (PIU). OWDB.



BANGLADESH
Second Srrall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                                     Table 32
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Financial   Economicl/21            Inputs (Uk/kg):                FinancialEconomicl/2/
Outputs ok/kg):                                                             Seeds:
Paddy                                       6.57      7.53                   Paddy                             7.00      9.41
Wheat                                       6.50      8.11                   Wheat                             9.00     10.14
Jute                                        5.25      8.74                   Jute                              7.00      7.88
Pulses                                     10.50      9.45                   Pulses                           12.00     11.81
Oilseeds                                    9.75     12.00                   Oilsedds                         11.00     15.00
Spices                                      13.75    12.38                   Spices                           153.00    137.75
Potatoes                                    2.95      2.66                   Sugarcane                         2.00      1.80
Sugarcane                                    1.90     2.46                   Sweet potatoes                    1.25      1.35
Sweet Potatoes                               1.20     1.08                   Water melon                       8.50      7.65
Water Melon                                 2.50      2.25
By-Products:
Paddy                                       0.63      0.57                   Fertilizers:
Wheat                                       0.40      0.36                   Urea                              6.30      4.44
Jute                                        0.65      0.59                   TSP                               9.40      9.84
MP                                 8.3      9.04
Unskilled Labour (Tk/md)         45.00     33.75
Bullock (Tk/pak day)             73.00     65.70
Irrigation (Tk/ha):
T. Aman                           1500     1350
Boro                             4500      4050
Wheat                             1350     1215
Potatoes                         1625      1463
1/ Average projected 2000-2(D05 world pricet in 1995 constant value.
Economic prices of traded commodities are shown hi Table 33.
Seed costs for traded crops have been estimated as the farm!gate prices of the crops plus a premium of 25% to allow for the costs of storage, wastage and transport.
2/ Non-traded commodities were adjusted by SCF of 0.90.



BANaADESH
Secora Smrall Scale Flooa Control, rairmge and Mgaton Project
(Or. * a70- BD)
lmplementetlon Competion Report
Economi Price Derwdon
ARcePaddy    hwaet Soyanean  Sugrp           Jute      uree      TSP       MP
M        M         M         M         X         X         M        M
Average 20-z)SProjeedWolaPrice (US*AI/                 275       122       277       527       319       150       129      109
Quality Factor                                         0.80      0.90      1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
Adjusted cdtfoo Prices                                 220       110       277       527       319       150       129      109
Frelott&lnsLrance2r                                     41        77        72        77                           72        72
Velueorf rentryportAoiWdport (US$S                     261       187       349       604       319       150      201        181
ValueofcOfentypCrtrobeOtport Uk"3                    10440      7472    13900    24160    127W0        6000      8040      7240
Portu anmndung Chlrges 4                              1305      1305      1305      1305      1305     1305      1305      1305
HandlingTrenspaort Storage 5/                          373       373       373       373      373       373       373       373
Valueex-stere/mtaet                                  12118      9150    15838    25838       1102       4322     9718      8918
Processing coats                                       349
Processing ralo                                        0.65     0.90                0.10      0.60
HnilnglrransportChlerges6/                             122       122       122       122       122      122       122       122
Economic Fermg te Prtice(                             7528      8113     1199e      2462     8744      4444      9840      9040
EconomicFermgetaPtlcoKcg)                              7.53      8.11    12.00      2.48      8.74      4.44      9.84      9.04
M-Imprt X-%Export
I/World Sanws Commocity Frioa Forectsts, Anu.ary ICW. Average projectea 2 -25 world pices, adjuste to 199 consarteyaLue.
ies ThaJ, mued., 5% 'okoen. FOS Bangko: Wnet: Canadhn No.1 Western Aesprtng, Thunoar Bay; Soybeans:
US, CIF, Rotterdm. Soybeans end musurvIinseea are assumea to De eqLai value: Sugar: FOB arnd stowed at Greater Cerrbean port;
.Jut: whae D, Bangladesh, FOB Chaim; Lrea: FOS ClmtgorgCrnalrlna: TSP: FOB US Gunl, MP: FOB US Guil.
2/ Between CnhIagongtCralrk and source of destination.
3AJSS1.0-TkAo0o
Al Averags Tk 1,50 eonverad to border puice oy SCF of 0.9a
5 Average 30 Ikm @ Tk I 3r tfm converted to Border prices Oy SCF of 0.9a
8 Average 1 5 Km @ TK tMkm convrrted to borderprice Cy SCF of 09o.



BANGLADESH
Second Srrall Scale Flood Conrol, Drainage and Irrigation Project                                                     Table 34
(Cr. 1870-SD)
Implementaloin Completion Report
Type of Sub-projects Completed
FCDI        FCD         I          D         Di            Total No. Sub-projects       Areas Generated (ha)
Financial Year                                                                                   Annual  Cumulative          Annual   Cumulative
FY89                                   1           1         0         1         0                    3          3                 640        640
FY90                                   2          2          3         0         0                    7         10                6319       6959
FY91                                   4          3          1         0         5                   13         23               22416      29375
FY92                                   8          8          1         0         0                    17        40               42905      72280
FY93                                   4          3          0         0          1                   8         48               20039      92319
FY94                                   3          7          1         1          1                  13         61               25576    117895
FY95                                   7          14         1         2          1                  25         86               48266    166161
FY96
completed by 12/95                    11           6         0         0          5                  22        108               68058    235019
Completion Expected by 6/96            6           4         0         0          0                   10       118               37550    272569
Subtotal                              17         10         0          0         5                   32       118               106408    272569
FY97                                   2           1         0         0          0                   3        121                10085    282654
Total                                 48          49         7         4         13                  121       121               202654    282654



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and lrdgation Project                       Table 35
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Economic Analysis-Polder 55/2A (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Irvestment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs           a/      Acquisition b/       Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)          8.70                     0.00      8.70       0.00      0.00      0.00     -8.70
year 2                13.90                     0.00     13.90       0.00      0.00      0.00    -13.90
year 3                 8.60                     0.03      8.63       0.00      0.00      0.00     -8.63
year 4                 2.00                     0.03      2.03       0.00      0.00      0.00     -2.03
year 5                 1.70                     0.03      1.73       0.00      0.00      0.00     -1.73
year 6                               1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     18.02      0.00     -1.03
year 7                               1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     26.60      8.58       7.55
year 8                               1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     35.18      17.16     16.13
year 9                               1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     43.76     25.74      24.71
year 10                              1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     43.76     25.74      24.71
year 11                              1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     43.76     25.74      24.71
year 12                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 13                              1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 14                              1.00       0.03      1.03      18.02     43.76     25.74      24.71
year 15                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 16                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 17                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 18                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 19                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 20                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 21                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 22                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 23                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 24                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
year 25                              1.00       0.03       1.03     18.02     43.76      25.74     24.71
ERR=      24.1%                NPV        53.20 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% d civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                   Table 36
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Economic Analysis-CIP (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land   Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net  Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acqusition b/        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         2.00                     0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    -2.00
year 2                0.40                     0.03      0.43      0.00      0.00      0.00    -0.43
year 3                1.40                     0.14      1.54      0.00      0.00      0.00    -1.54
year 4                2.10                     0.41      2.51      0.00      0.00      0.00    -2.51
year 5                3.30                     0.47      3.77      0.00      0.00      0.00    -3.77
year 6                1.70                     0.47      2.17      0.00      0.00      0.00    -2.17
year 7                             0.30        0.47      0.77     36.10     36.10      0.00    -0.77
year 8                             0.30        0.47      0.77     36.90     38.90      2.00      1.23
year 9                             0.30        0.47      0.77     37.60     41.80      4.20      3.43
year 10                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 11                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 12                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 13                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 14                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 15                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 16                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 17                            0.30        0:47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 18                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 19                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 20                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 21                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 22                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 23                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 24                            0.30        0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
year 25                             0.30       0.47      0.77     38.40     44.60      6.20      5.43
ERR=      18.8%               NPV =       6.98 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% d civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                    Table 37
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Harbang Chara (Tk. Millon)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land   Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net  Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acquisition b/       Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         0.00                    0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
year 2                4.60                    0.05      4.65      0.00      0.00       0.00    -4.65
year 3                1.40                    0.24       1.64     0.00      0.00       0.00    -1.64
year 4                2.90                    0.24      3.14      0.00      0.00       0.00    -3.14
year 5                0.60                    0.24      0.84      0.00      0.00       0.00    -0.84
year 6                0.40                    0.24      0.64      0.00      0.00       0.00    -0.64
year 7                             0.30       0.24      0.54       9.99      9.99      0.00    -0.54
year 8                             0.30        0.24     0.54       9.99     10.49      0.50    -0.04
year 9                             0.30       0.24      0.54       9.99     10.99      1.00      0.46
year 10                            0.30       0.24      0.54       9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 11                            0.30       0.24      0.54       9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 12                            0.30       0.24      0.54       9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 13                            0.30       0.24      0.54      9.99      11.49      1.50      0.96
year 14                            0.30       0.24      0.54      9.99      11.49      1.50      0.96
year 15                            0.30       0.24      0.54      9.99      11.49      1.50      0.96
year 16                            0.30        0.24     0.54       9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 17                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 18                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 19                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 20                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 21                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 22                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 23                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 24                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
year 25                            0.30        0.24      0.54      9.99     11.49      1.50      0.96
ERR=       2.4%               NPV       -5.35 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% d civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irngaton Project                      Table 38
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complebon Report
Economic Analysis-Laithi River (Tk. Millon)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acqusition bI        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year I (FY89)         0.00                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
year 2                8.80                     0.01      8.81      0.00      0.00      0.00    -8.81
year 3                2.60                     0.01      2.61      0.00      0.00      0.00    -2.61
year 4                1.60                     0.02      1.62      0.00      0.00      0.00    -1.62
year 5                             0.40        0.02      0.42      9.80      9.80      0.00    -0.42
year 6                             0.40        0.02      0.42     10.30     15.60      5.30      4.88
year 7                             0.40        0.02      0.42     10.90     21.30     10.40      9.98
year 8                             0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 9                             0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 10                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 11                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 12                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 13                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 14                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 15                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 16                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 17                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 18                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 19                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 20                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 21                            0.40        0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 22                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 23                            :0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 24                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
year 25                             0.40       0.02      0.42     11.40     27.10     15.70     15.28
ERR=      37.4%               NPV =     46.95 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% d civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net producton benefits in without project situaton.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Dranage and Irrigation Project                        Table 39
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Singimari Beel (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs           a/     Acquisition b/        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)          0.80                     0.00      0.80       0.00      0.00      0.00     -0.80
year 2                 3.10                     0.03      3.13       0.00      0.00      0.00     -3.13
year 3                 2.30                     0.03      2.33       0.00      0.00      0.00     -2.33
year 4                 0.50                     0.03      0.53       0.00      0.00      0.00     -0.53
year 5                 0.80                     0.03      0.83       0.00      0.00      0.00     -0.83
year 6                 0.20                     0.03      0.23       0.00      0.00      0.00     -0.23
year 7                               0.23       0.03      0.26      14.80     14.80      0.00     -0.26
year 8                               0.23       0.03      0.26      15.30     20.40      5.10       4.84
year 9                              0.23        0.03      0.26      15.90     25.90      10.00      9.74
year 10                             0.23        0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 11                             0.23        0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50     15.10      14.84
year 12                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 13                             0.23        0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 14                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 15                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 16                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 17                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 18                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 19                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 20                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 21                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 22                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 23                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 24                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
year 25                              0.23       0.03      0.26      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.84
ERR=      36.0%                NPV =      36.88 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% cf civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
Second Srnall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                   Table 40
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Repon
Economic Analysis-SMB (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land   Total Costs WOP Net WP Net  Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acquisition bi       Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         3.60                    0.00      3.60      0.00      0.00      0.00    -3.60
year 2                7.30                    0.02      7.32      0.00      0.00      0.00    -7.32
year 3                7.10                    0.03      7.13      0.00      0.00      0.00    -7.13
year 4               13.30                    0.04     13.34      0.00      0.00      0.00   -13.34
year 5                1.30                    0.08      1.38      0.00      0.00      0.00     -1.38
year 6                1.70                    0.09      1.79      0.00      0.00      0.00    -1.79
year 7                9.20         1.03       1.69     11.92     25.00     25.00      0.00   -11.92
year 8                9.90         1.31       2.10     13.31     25.60     28.47      2.87   -10.44
year 9                             1.61       2.10      3.71     26.30     31.93      5.63      1.92
year 10                            1.61       2.10      3.71     26.90     35.40      8.50      4.79
year 11                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 12                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 13                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 14                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 15                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 16                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 17                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 18                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 19                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
yea' 20                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 21                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 22                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 23                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
year 24                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
yea' 25                            1.61       2.10      3.71     16.40     35.40     19.00     15.29
ERR=      12.5%               NPV =      1.86 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 3% costs of civil works.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.
c/ Benefits commence in FY95 as the remaining works are mainly increasing the level of the existing embankment.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                          Table 41
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complebon Report
Economic Analysis-Six Appraised Fully Planned Sub-projects (Tk. Million)
Incremental Net Benefits
Financial Year     Harbang       CIP      Polder55/2A   Singimari Laithi River   SMB              Balance
Chara
year 1 (FY89)          0.00         -2.00       -8.70      -0.80       0.00     -3.60               -15.10
year 2                -4.65         -0.43      -13.90      -3.13     -8.81      -7.32               -38.24
year 3                -1.64         -1.54       - 8.63     -2.33     -2.61      - 7.13              -23.88
year 4                -3.14         -2.51       -2.03      - 0.53    -1.62    -13.34                -23.17
year 5                - 0.84        -3.77       -1.73      - 0.83    -0.42      -1.38                -8.97
year 6                -0.64         -2.17       -1.03      -0.23       4.88     -1.79                -0.98
year 7                -0.54         -0.77         7.55     -0.26       9.98    -11.92                  4.04
year 8                -0.04           1.23       16.13      4.84      15.28    -10.44                 27.00
year 9                 0.46           3.43       24.71      9.74      15.28       1.92                55.54
year 10                0.96           5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28       4.79                66.01
year 11                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 12                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 13                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 14                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 15                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 16                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 17                 0.96          5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28      15.29                76.51
year 18                 0.96          5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28      15.29                76.51
year 19                 0.96          5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28      15.29                76.51
year 20                 0.96          5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 21                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 22                0.96           5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28      15.29                76.51
year 23                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 24                0.96           5.43       24.71     14.84      15.28      15.29                76.51
year 25                 0.96          5.43       24.71      14.84     15.28      15.29                76.51
ERR=       22.8%                NPV =    140.52 Tk. Million



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Dranage and lrdgation Project                       Table 42
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complelon Report
Economic Analysis-SSFCDI Component (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acquisihion b/        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         5.49                     0.22      5.71      0.00      0.00       0.00    -5.71
year 2               88.97                     0.81     89.78     13.41     13.41       0.00   -89.78
year 3              143.36                     1.59    144.95    146.02    147.00       0.98  -143.97
year4               188.58                     2.58    191.16    618.43    629.54      11.11   -180.05
year 5              200.41                     3.67    204.08   1528.75   1582.85      54.10  -149.98
year 6              249.80                     6.35    256.15   1976.26   2135.19    158.93    -97.22
year 7              214.63                     7.95    222.58   2545.06   2828.91    283.85      61.27
year 8              136.43                     8.09    144.52   3590.52   4003.90    413.38    268.86
year 9               70.66                     8.17     78.83   5069.52   5620.27    550.75    471.92
year 10                            35.80       8.17     43.97   5911.34   6670.91    759.57    715.60
year 11                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6182.28   7168.21     985.93    941.96
year 12                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6227.21   7383.61    1156.40   1112.43
year 13                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6245.59   7471.68   1226.09   1182.12
year 14                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 15                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 16                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 17                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 18                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 19                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 20                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 21                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 22                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.31   1240.85   1196.88
year 23                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 24                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
year 25                            35.80       8.17     43.97   6249.48   7490.33   1240.85   1196.88
ERR=      37.8%                NPV =   2635.27 Tk. Million



BANGLADESH
Second Snall Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                  Table 43
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-SMB (Tk. Million)
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance61
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land   Total Costs WOP Net WP Net  Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/     Acquisition bi       Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)        3.60                    0.00      3.60      0.00      0.00      0.00    -3.60
year 2               7.30                    0.02      7.32      0.00      0.00      0.00    -7.32
year 3               7.10                    0.03      7.13      0.00      0.00      0.00    -7.13
year 4              13.30                    0.04     13.34      0.00      0.00     0.00    -13.34
year 5               1.30                    0.08      1.38      0.00      0.00      0.00    -1.38
year 6               1.70                    0.09      1.79      0.00      0.00     0.00    -1.79
year 7               9.20          0.52       1.69    11.41     25.00     25.00      0.00   -11.41
year 8               9.90          0.52      2.10     12.52     25.60     28.47      2.87    -9.65
year 9                             0.52      2.10      2.62     26.30     31.93      5.63     3.01
yea 10                             0.52      2.10      2.62     26.90     35.40      8.50     5.88
year 11                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     35.40     19.00    16.38
yea 12                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     31.86     15.46    12.84
yea 13                            0.52       2.10      2.62     16.40     31.86     15.46    12.84
year 14                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     31.86     15.46     12.84
yea 15                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     30.09     13.69     11.07
year 16                           0.52       2.10      2.62     16.40     30.09     13.69     11.07
yea 17                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92     9.30
yea 18                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92      9.30
year 19                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92      9.30
year 20                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92      9.30
yea 21                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92     9.30
year 22                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92     9.30
yew 23                             0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92      9.30
year 24                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92     9.30
year 25                            0.52      2.10      2.62     16.40     28.32     11.92     9.30
ERR=      10.3%              NPV =    -4.89 Tk. Millon
a/ Estimated at 1.5%osts of civil works.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.
c/ Benefits commence in FY95 as the remaining works are mainly increasing the level of the existing embankment.
d/ Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after
completion and by 30% in the 11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                         Table 44
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Harbang Chara (Tk. Million)             c/
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequdte Maintenance 
Financial Year    Investment   O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net    Balance
Costs           a/      AcqLisition b/         Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)          0.00                      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
year 2                 4.60                      0.05       4.65      0.00       0.00      0.00      -4.65
year 3                 1.40                      0.24       1.64      0.00       0.00      0.00      -1.64
year 4                 2.90                      0.24       3.14      0.00       0.00      0.00      -3.14
year 5                 0.60                      0.24       0.84      0.00       0.00       0.00     -0.84
year 6                 0.40                      0.24       0.64      0.00       0.00       0.00     -0.64
year 7                               0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99       9.99       0.00     -0.39
year 8                               0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.49       0.50      0.11
year 9                               0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.99       1.00      0.61
year 10                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      11.49       1.50      1.11
year 11                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      11.49       1.50      1.11
year 12                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      11.20       1.21      0.82
year 13                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      11.20       1.21      0.82
year 14                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      11.20       1.21      0.82
year 15                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.92       0.93      0.54
year 16                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.92       0.93      0.54
year 17                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 18                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 19                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     - 0.04
year 20                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 21                               0.15       0.24       0.39       9.99     10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 22                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 23                               0.15       0.24       0.39       9.99     10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 24                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
year 25                              0.15        0.24       0.39      9.99      10.34       0.35     -0.04
ERR=      -7.3%                 NPV       -6.19 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.50kf civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.
c/ Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after
completion and by 30% in the 11th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrgation Project                       Table 45
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complebon Report
Economic Analysis-CIP (Tk. Million)
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance-
Financial Year    Investment   O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net    Balance
Costs           a/      Acquisition b/        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)          2.00                     0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    -2.00
year 2                 0.40                     0.03      0.43       0.00      0.00       0.00    -0.43
year 3                 1.40                     0.14       1.54      0.00      0.00       0.00    -1.54
year 4                 2.10                     0.41      2.51       0.00      0.00       0.00    -2.51
year 5                 3.30                     0.47      3.77       0.00      0.00      0.00     -3.77
year 6                 1.70                     0.47      2.17       0.00      0.00      0.00     -2.17
year 7                               0.15       0.47      0.62      36.10     36.10       0.00    -0.62
year 8                               0.15       0.47      0.62      36.90     38.90       2.00      1.38
year 9                               0.15       0.47       0.62     37.60     41.80       4.20      3.58
year 10                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     44.60       6.20      5.58
year 11                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     44.60       6.20      5.58
year 12                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     43.49       5.09      4.47
year 13                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     43.49       5.09      4.47
year 14                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     43.49       5.09      4.47
year 15                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     42.37       3.97      3.35
year 16                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     42.37       3.97      3.35
year 17                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 18                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 19                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 20                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 21                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 22                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 23                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 24                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
year 25                              0.15       0.47       0.62     38.40     40.14       1.74      1.12
ERR=      15.0%                NPV =       2.13 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.50/Vf civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.
c/ Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after completion and by 30% in the
11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irirgation Project                     Table 46
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Economic Analysis-Laithi River (Tk. Million)
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance 
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acquisition bl        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         0.00                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
year 2                8.80                     0.01      8.81      0.00       0.00      0.00    -8.81
year 3                2.60                     0.01      2.61      0.00       0.00      0.00     -2.61
year 4                1.60                     0.02      1.62      0.00       0.00      0.00     - 1.62
year 5                              0.20       0.02      0.22      9.80       9.80      0.00     -0.22
year 6                              0.20       0.02      0.22      10.30     15.60      5.30      5.08
year 7                              0.20       0.02      0.22      10.90     21.30     10.40     10.18
year 8                              0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     27.10     15.70     15.48
year 9                              0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     27.10     15.70     15.48
year 10                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     27.10     15.70     15.48
year 11                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     24.39     12.99     12.77
year 12                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     24.39     12.99     12.77
year 13                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     24.39     12.99     12.77
year 14                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     23.04     11.64     11.42
year 15                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     23.04     11.64     11.42
year 16                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 17                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 18                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 19                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 20                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 21                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 22                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 23                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 24                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
year 25                             0.20       0.02      0.22      11.40     21.68     10.28     10.06
ERR=      36.6%               NPV        38.64 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.5f civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation
cl Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after completion and by 30% in the
11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Dranage and Irrigation Project                        Table 47
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Economic Analysis-Singiman Beel (Tk. Million)
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance-
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs           a/      Acquisition b/        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
yoar 1 (FY89)          0.80                     0.00       0.80      0.00      0.00       0.00     -0.80
year 2                 3.10                     0.03      3.13       0.00      0.00       0.00     -3.13
year 3                 2.30                     0.03      2.33       0.00      0.00       0.00     -2.33
year 4                 0.50                     0.03      0.53       0.00      0.00       0.00     -0.53
year 5                 0.80                     0.03      0.83       0.00      0.00       0.00    -0.83
year 6                 0.20                     0.03      0.23       0.00      0.00       0.00     -0.23
year 7                               0.12       0.03       0.15     14.80     14.80       0.00     -0.15
year 8                               0.12       0.03       0.15     15.30     20.40       5.10      4.95
year 9                               0.12       0.03      0.15      15.90     25.90      10.00      9.85
year 10                              0.12       0.03      0.15      16.40     31.50      15.10     14.95
year 11                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     31.50      15.10     14.95
year 12                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     28.35      11.95     11.80
year 13                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     28.35      11.95     11.80
year 14                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     28.35      11.95     11.80
year 15                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     26.78      10.38     10.23
year 16                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     26.78      10.38     10.23
year 17                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 10                              0.12       0.03      0.15      16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 19                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 20                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 21                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 22                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 23                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 24                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
year 25                              0.12       0.03       0.15     16.40     25.20       8.80      8.65
ERR=      34.4%                NPV        28.00 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.5%Af civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without project situation.
cl Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after completion and by 30% in the
11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and lrngation Project                      Table 48
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Completon Report
Economic Analysis-Polder 5512A (Tk. Million)      c/
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance-
Financial Year    Irnvestment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acquisition bl        Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         8.70                     0.00       8.70      0.00      0.00      0.00     -8.70
year 2                13.90                    0.00      13.90      0.00      0.00      0.00    -13.90
year 3                8.60                     0.03       8.63      0.00      0.00      0.00     -B.63
year 4                2.00                     0.03       2.03      0.00      0.00      0.00     -2.03
year 5                1.70                     0.03       1.73      0.00      0.00      0.00     -1.73
year 6                              0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     18.02      0.00     -0.53
year 7                              0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     26.60      8.58      8.05
year 8                              0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     35,18     17.16     16.63
year 9                              0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     43.76     25.74     25.21
year 10                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     43.76     25.74     25.21
year 11                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     42.67     24.65     24.12
year 12                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     42.67     24.65     24.12
year 13                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     42.67     24.65     24.12
year 14                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     41.57     23.55     23.02
year 15                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     41.57     23.55     23.02
year 16                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 17                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 18                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 19                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 20                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 21                             0.50       0.03       0.53     18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 22                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 23                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 24                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
year 25                             0.50       0.03      0.53      18.02     39.38     21.36     20.83
ERR=      23.9%                NPV =     49.11 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.5kf civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without proiect situation.
c/ Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after completion and by 30% in the
11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                         Table 49
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complebon Report
Economic Analysis-Six Appraised Fully Planned Sub-projects (Tk. Million)
a/
Assuming Progressive Decrease in Benefits due to Inadequate Maintenance-
Financial Year     Harbang         CIP   Polder55/2A   Singimari Laithi River   SMB              Balance
Chara
year 1 (FY89)          0.00         -2.00       -8.70     -0.80       0.00     -3.60               -15.10
year 2                -4.65         -0.43      -13.90     -3.13      -8.81     -7.32               -38.24
year 3                -1.64         -1.54       -8.63     -2.33      -2.61     -7.13               -23.88
year 4                -3.14         -2.51       -2.03     -0.53      -1.62    -13.34               -23.17
year 5                -0.84         -3.77       -1.73     -0.83      -0.22     -1.38                -8.77
year 6                -0.64         -2.17      -0.53      -0.23       5.08     -1.79                -0.28
year 7                -0.39         -0.62        8.05     -0.15      10.18    -11.41                  5.66
year 8                 0.11           1.38      16.63       4.95     15.48     -9.65                 28.90
year 9                 0.61          3.58       25.21       9.85     15.48       3.01                57.74
year 10                i.11          5.58       25.21      14.95     12.77       5.88                65.50
year 11                1.11          5.58       24.12      14.95     12.77      16.38                74.91
year 12                0.82          4.47       24.12      11.80     11.42      12.84                65.47
year 13                0.82          4.47       24.12      11.80     11.42      12.84                65.47
year 14                0.82          4.47       23.02      11.80     10.06      12.84                63.01
year 15                0.54          3.35       23.02      10.23     10.06      11.07                58.27
year 16                0.54          3.35       20.83      10.23     10.06      11.07                56.08
year 17               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 18               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 19               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65      10.06      9.30                49.92
year 20               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 21               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 22               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 23               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 24               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
year 25               -0.04           1.12      20.83       8.65     10.06       9.30                49.92
ERR=      21.5%                 NPV =      104.8 Tk. Million
a/ Percentage of HYV assumed to Progressively decrease by 10% in the 6th year after completion and by 30% in the
11 th year after completion.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project                     Table 50
(Cr. 1870-BD)
Implementation Complebon Report
Economic Analysis-SSFCDI Component (Tk. Million)
Financial Year    Investment  O&M Costs    Land    Total Costs WOP Net  WP Net   Inc. Net   Balance
Costs          a/      Acqusition b/         Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben. Prod. Ben.
year 1 (FY89)         5.49                     0.22      5.71      0.00       0.00      0.00    -5.71
year 2               88.97                     0.81     89.78      13.41     13.41      0.00    -89.78
year 3              143.36                     1.59    144.95    146.02    147.00       0.98  -143.97
year4               188.58                     2.58    191.16    618.43    629.54      11.11   -180.05
year 5              200.41                     3.67    204.08   1528.75   1582.85      54.10  -149.98
year 6              249.80                     6.35    256.15   1976.26   2135.19    158.93    -97.22
year 7              214.63                     7.95    222.58   2545.06   2828.91    283.85      61.27
year 8              136.43                     8.09    144.52   3590.52   3931.61    341.09    196.57
year 9               70.66                     8.17     78.83   5069.52   5518.27    448.75    369.92
year 10                            17.90       8.17     26.07   5911.34   6514.36    603.02    576.95
year 11                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6182.28   6976.73    794.45    768.38
year 12                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6227.21   7127.69    900.48    874.41
year 13                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6245.59   7089.73    844.14    818.07
year 14                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6921.97    672.49    646.42
year 15                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   7089.73    840.25    814.18
year 16                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6960.88    711.40    685.33
year 17                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6829.32    579.84    553.77
year 18                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6725.17    475.69    449.62
year 19                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6600.04    350.56    324.49
year 20                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6486.35    236.87    210.80
year 21                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6381.46    131.98    105.91
year 22                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6331.71      82.23     56.16
year 23                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6318.01      68.53     42.46
year 24                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6318.01      68.53     42.46
year 25                            17.90       8.17     26.07   6249.48   6318.01      68.53     42.46
ERR=      31.8%               NPV -   1245.48 Tk. Million
a/ Estimated at 1.5%f civil work costs.
b/ Valued at the net production benefits in without proiect situation. the 6  y
cl Percentage of HYV assumed to progressively decrease by 10%
11lth year after completion.



)  5-         |I N  D I A                              B A N G  L A D E S H
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL,
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
y' Thatiagaon      \_  _gL -ocaihon of Appraised Subprojets                                                            Ih'
Sirigirroar, Real                                                   Primary Roads
Railro-ds
Racoo\r     h        r'j~               .                      National Copiral
--5,                                                                                                                       25, >  52  ---   Internafional -- nia dr
FLH                                          L;lh   R -   i- *_    -- 5
IL
- 24-   ai  thdo              /       /       <    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jo dbr r!-   ,,
.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
s / - ( j-1; e 3g s~~~~~~~ N  D  I A
SpsL ) kARIDPLIR    -  k  ]    1)    .    //<    )   c5s   /'%
Jzena|5n;-/                   A                  I 0>4 Fr   
5 ' DD; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                   Ch-dp), 'V\   
jib.                                                                  ILL_r ~ - \ k )  I  -          '
I N  D I A                               KHUL-A
\  \ ~~~~~    ~ ~ (i  f   (~~~55,2Ai 
- -----                  t                 ,                                                                        L 
#-.--             -                      .                                                                    -^1              ! 
j                                                                Harbari~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,g Cha-
-          S~~~~r
(    .-J\  ~INDIA
B o y     of       Be  n g o                            'J 0'
BANGLADESH
DHAKA                                                                                                          BURMA
INDIA                                                         M   20  10  "R  20
s,r..*.sI
c~~~~ ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |p 1O \        5     s           0    W                               
?                 WBURMA                          1                            or                                     .           0
'2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1












