Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
7 1EZP
Report No. 6904-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 22, 1987
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Bangladesh Taka       -             100 paisa
US$1 (October 1987)   =             Tk 31.0 (Official Rate)
Tk 33.0 (Free Market Wage
Earner's Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =             0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)         -             2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
AIT     -  Asian Institute of Technology
BADC    -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC    -  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BRDB    -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB    -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
b.      -  When preceding a crop means broadcast
CIDA    -  Caniadian International Development Agency
CTU     -  Canadian Technical Unit
DAE     -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DTW     -  Deep Tubewell
FA      -  Force Account
FCD     -  Flood Control and Drainage
FRW     -  Flood Rehabilitation Works
FFW     -  Food-For-Work Programme
GOB     -  Government of Bangladesh
HTW     -  Hand Tubewell
HYV     -  High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -  International Development Association
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LLP     -  Low Lift Pump
M&E     -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOF     -  Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI     -  Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
MLG     -  Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
MPO     -  Master Planning Organization
NHCL    -  Northwest Hydraulic Consultants, Ltd.
NWP     -  National Water Plan
O&M     -  Operation and Maintenance
PIU     -  Project Implementation Unit
PPAR    -  Project Performance Audit Report
PP      -  Project Proforma
SSDFC   -  Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
SSFCDI  -  Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
STW     -  Shallow Tubewell
t.      -  When preceding a crop means transplanted
WFP     -  World Food Programme



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman      -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December.
Aus       -  Rice planted during February or March and harvested during June
or July.
Boro      -  Rice transplanted in December or January and harvested in April
or May.
Kharif    -  Summer cropping season (May through October).
Rabi      -  Winter cropping season (October through May).
Monsoon   -  Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Beel      -  Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water.
Khal      -  Natural channel
District  -  Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy Commissioner
comprising a number of Upazilas.
Upazila   -  Smallest administrative unit of local government
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ony in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authoizatioon.



C-s 
-1~- 



BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMM.Y  .....................................            iv
Ir.    BACKG      ROOND..............................................,..    1
A.  Agriculture    Sec                      .      or                1
B.  IDA's Role in Agricultural Development...........*.......   4
C. First SSDFC Project                                               S
D.  Bangladesh Water Development Board.o          a     rd*##0..............    6
E.  Floods of 1987..................................         .       9
F.  Rationale for IDA Involvement............................   10
II.   THE PROJECT...................                                        10
A. Project Background and Objectives.........................    10
B. Project Components..       .     .      o..... .  . ......    12
C. Detailed   P       etrs                                           13
D. Project Workso... ...18
E. Implementation Schedule       h     e    d     u     le............ ..............o.   20
III.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT....                        21
A. Project Cost                                                      21
B. Project Financing ..................... .                         22
C* Procurement...e.. ...................................... .    23
Do Disbursements...... ...o ......... ......... ........... .    26
E. Accounts and A tdits                                              27
F. Environmental Aspectso..................... ..*...........        27
This report is based on the findings of a joint Bank/CIDA appraisal mission
which visited Bangladesh in May 1987 and comprised Messrs. H. van Voorthuizen
C.P. Cheng, G.S.M. Schokman, J. Macgregor (IDA) and P.A. Gonzalez (CIDA
Consultant). The mission was assisted by Messrs. D. Smart, Canadian High
Commission, and J. Pruntel, World Bank Resident Mission, Dhaka. A follow-
up mission, comprising Messrs. van Voor,thuizen and Schokman, visited
Bangladesh in October 1987 to review G0vernment's proposals for rehabilita-
tion of infrastructure damaged by the 1987 floods.



-ii-
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....................S..@........0..0..  28
A. Construction of Project Works.............................    28
B. Supporting Components...... ...... ........** *......**....    33
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY........   34
A.  Agricultural Production.............. .................00    34
B.  Marketing and Prices ....................................   36
C.  Farm Budgets .................................                37
D.  Cost Recovery................... 0.0......  ................  38
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......... .............           40
A. Project Benef its and Beneficiaries ................................ 40
B. Economic Justification .. .       ..........e0.0.......o........ ..   41
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Risks ...........................    42
VII  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .................................    43
ANNEXES
1. The Food-For-Work Programme
2.  Selection of Project Works
Table 1: Appraised Subprojects - Fully Planned
Table 2: Identified Subprojects - Fully Planned
Table 3: Identified Subprojects - Appurten*int Structures
Table 4: Summary of Identified and Projected Structures for 200
Appurtenant Structures Subprojects
3.  Benchmark and Evaluation Studies
4.  Modernization of BWDB's Accounting Procedures and Financial Management
System
5.  Operation and Maintenance Cost Cell
6.  Implementation Schedules
7.  Cost Estimates
Tables 1-6: Appraised Fully Planned Subprojects
Table 7   : Unappraised Fully Planned Subprojects - Second Group
Table 8   : Unappraised Fully Planned Subprojects - Third Group
Table 9   : Appurtenant Structures Subprojects
Table 10  : Operation and Maintenance
Table 11  : Flood Rehabilitation Works
Table 12  : Other Components
8.  Financing and Disbursements
Table 1  : Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Table 2  : Proposed Credit Allocation
Table 3  : Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



-iii-
9. Procurement Schedules
Schedule 1: Civil Works
Schedule 2: Equipment and Vehicles
10. Crop Production and Incomes of Appraised Subprojects
Table 1    : Area by Flood Depth in Pre-and Post-Project Conditions
Tables 2-7 s Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Tables 8-13: Farm Budgets
11. Economic Evaluation of Appraised Subprojects
Table 1: Prices for Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2: Economic Cost and Benefits.
12. Related Documents in Project File
Charts W 31250 and W31250-2: Organization Structure
Map IBRD 20247: Location of Appraised Subprojects
SUPPLEMENTARY VOLUME
ANNEXES
1. Guidelines for Preparation of Subprojects (SSFCDI Works)
2. Project Management System - Terms of Reference (SSFCDI Works)
3. Consultancy Services during Implementation - Terms of Reference (FRW)
4. Mathematical Modelling Studies of River Sections Protected by the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment - Guidelines for Preparation of Terms
of Reference (FRW)
5.  Summary Statement of Cost (FRW)
6. List of Identified Schemes (FRW)



\Z'
A\\



-iv-
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                SDR 61.7 million (US$81.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Cofinancier:           Canadian International Development A;ency (CIDA) will
provide a grant equivalent to US$9.6 million
Project Description:  The project has two main parts, i.e. (a) construction
of small scale flood control, drainage and irrigation
subprojects (SSFCDI works); and (b) rehabilitation of
infrastructure damaged or destroyed during the 1987
floods. The main objectives of the SSFCDI part of the
project are to: (a) increase agricultural production
and farm incomes by supporting investments in small
scale schemes for protection of agricultural land
against floods, prevention of salt water intrusion,
improved drainage, provision of water for irrigation,
or combinations of these; and (b) strengthen the
capacity of the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) to implement new projects and to operate and
maintain completed subprojects. These objectives would
be achieved through: (a) construction of permanent
water control structures in about 200 small subprojects
where earthworks had been undertaken under the
Food-For-Work Programme (FFW); (b) construction of
about 15 new subprojects requiring both earthworks and
structures; (c) procurement of vehicles and equipment;
and (d) provision of technical assistance and training
to assist BWDB in improving its capacity to plan and
design small schemes, its financial management system
and its capacity to estimate operation and maintenance
costs of completed schemes. The World Food Programme
(WFP) would provide food in exchange for work to be
carried out under specific project activities. Sub-
projects would be selected during project implementa-
tion in accordance with guidelines agreed during nego-
tiations. The flood rehabilitation part of the project
would cover flood protection, drainage, irrigation, and
town protection works which were destroyed or damaged
during the exceptionally severe floods of
July-September 1987. It would also include technical
assistance for design work and construction monitoring
and for mathematical modelling of river sections
protected by the existing Brahmaputra Right Embankment,



which are essential for the design of improved future
protection works.
Benefits and Risks:   As a result of the SSFCDI works, average incomes of
some 220,000 families would increase by about 15Z-20X
due to: (i) lower crop losses following flood protec-
tion measures; and (ii) higher crop production because
of improved drainage conditions and expansion of
irrigation. Possible delays in pre-construction
activities may delay projec: implementation. Arrange-
ments have been incorporated into the project design to
minimize this risk. Inadequate operation and main-
tenance (O&M) arrangements of completed subprojects due
to funding short-falls and organizational problems are
another possible risk. To minimize it, financing of
O&M is provided under the project until two years after
completion of construction work. The flood rehabilita-
tion works have the higbest priority in order to mini-
mize losses to the country's economy. Works to be
undertaken are relatively simple and are well within
the capacity of BWDB.
Project Cost:
Local      Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-
SSFCDI Works
Land Acquisition                     2.7            -         2.7
Surveys and  Investigations          0.2            -         0.2
Civil Works                         25.2           5.0       30.2
Engineering and Administration       3.3            -         3.3
Operation and Maintenance            1.5            -         1.5
Technical Assistance and Training  3.0             3.8        6.8
Equipment and Vehicles               0.4          0.4         0.8
Benchmark and Evaluation Studies   0.3              -         0.3
Modernization of BWDB Accounts       0.1           1.0        1.1
O&M Cost Cell                        0.0           0.2        0.2
Subtotal                          36.7         10.4        47.1
Flood Rehabilitation Works
Land Acquisition                     2.6           -          2.6
Civil Works                         25.4         4.9         30.3
Engineering and Administration       3.2           -          3.2
Technical Assistance                 1.3          2.2         3.5
Equipment and Vehicles               0.1         0.1          0.2
Subtotal                          32.6         7.2         39.8



-vi-
Local      Foreign       Total
-------- (US$ million)-------
Base Cost                         69.3         17.6         86.9
Physical Contingencies               5.1          1.2          6.9
Price Contingencies                 16.3          0.9         17.2
Total Cost a/                     91.3         19.7        111.0
a/ The total cost net if taxes and duties (US$3.6 million) is US$111.0
million
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
---------(US$ m,llion--------
Government                        19.9           -          19.9
IDA                               67.4         14.1         81.5
CIDA                               4.0          5.6          9.6
Total                           91.3         19.7        111.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY             88   89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96
---------------TUS$ millioiiY----- :: 
Annual           10.0  15.8  22.0  14.1   9.5   6.5   2.2   1.1   0.3
Cummulative      10.0  25.8  47.8  61.9  71.4  77.9  80.1  81.2  81.5
Economic Rate of Return: 31% (excluding the flood rehabilitation works).



N>
\
-r-



BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture Sector
1.01    Agricultural Development.  Bangladesh has a population of about 100
million (1985), which is growing at an annual rate of about 2.6%. With a per
capita income of US$150 and over 70% of its population living in conditions
of absolute poverty, the country remains one of the poorest in the world.
The majority of the poor are in the rural areas and depend on agriculture for
a living.
1.02    Agriculture accounts for about 50% of GDP and over 60% of both
employment and exports. The crop subsector accounts for 77% of agricultural
value-added, livestock 10%, fisheries 7%, and forestry 6%. Although the
non-crop subsectors are small, they are important sources of income and
complementary rural employment. The principal exports are jute, tea, shrimp,
and leather. In recent years progress in the sector has been positive but
slow. During the Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-85) agricultural production
grew at a rate of 2.8% per annum. Foodgrain production, which had the
highest priority, grew at a faster rate of about 3.2% p.a., thereby slightly
exceeding the population growth rate of 2.6%. However, domestic production
of foodgrains is still about 10%-15% short of requirements, and to meet this
shortfall the country imports between one and two million tons of foodgrain a
year. Although major output prices have tended to decline in line with world
prices, input costs have not fallen, and farm incomes remained at previous
levels because of higher productivity. Volumes of jute exports have been
relatively stable, but export earnings have fallen as a result of a decline
in export prices. Tea, leather, and shrimp export earnings have all grown
substantially during the Second Five-Year Plan period, primarily because of
increased production. Agricultural wage-rates have probably increased by
about 1% p.a. in real terms. However, employment growth in agriculture has
been well below the rural labour force growth rate.
1.03    The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has established an ambitious 5.2%
p.a. growth target for agricultural production during the Third Five-Year
Plan (FY86-90) with emphasis on achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, as
under the Second Five-Year Plan. Actual growth will depend to a large extent
on GOB's efforts to alleviate major physical constraints on the expansion of
agricultural production. GOB recognizes that achievement of future growth
targets requires intensification of land use since virtually the entire
cultivable area of about 9 million ha is already under cultivation. There is



-2-
still substantial scope for increasing cropping intensities (now on average
about 150%), substituting high-value for low-value crops, and improving crop
yields. To realize this potential Bangladesh must inter alia accelerate the
development of its water resources (paras 1.06-1.08T7-
1.04    There is a general awareness that in order to promote agricultural
growth, Bangladesh must improve the performance of the public sector institu-
tions supporting agricultural development. These include mainly the Minis-
tries of Agriculture and Forests (MOA), Fisheries and Livestock (MOF),
Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control (MOI), Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLC) and the semi-autonomous agencies
they control (described below). The Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) is responsible for planning, implementation, and operation and main-
tenance (OEM) of flood control and drainage projects and medium and major
irrigation schemes as well as erosion control, town protection, and river
training projects (see Section D of this Chapter). The Bangladesh Agricul-
tural Development Corporation (BADC), under MOA, is responsible for the
development of minor irrigation systems involving the use of low lift surface
water pumps (LLP) as well as hand tubewells (HTW), shallow tubewells (STW),
and deep tubewells (DTW) to tap the aquifer. BADC has also been the major
supplier of farm inputs, including fertilizer, seeds, and irrigation equip-
ment. Some of these responsibilities, particularly at the retail level, are
being progressively transferred to the private sector. The Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC), also under MOA, coordinates the
research activities of specialized institutions covering rice, jute, sugar,
forestry, fishery, tea, livestock, and other crops and horticulture. The
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) of MOA provides extension services
to the farmers. The Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB), under MLG,
promotes the growth of farmer cooperatives, which collect thrift deposits,
promote group management of minor irrigation equipment, and provide credit
and inputs to small farmers. The responsibility for providing services to
the agricultural sector was recently transferred to local government inatitu-
tions at the Upazila and Zila levels. Various programs to improve the perfor-
mance of most of these agencies are underway or due to start shortly.
1.05    Finally, the future growth of agricultural production depends on a
well-balanced set of Government policies that provide adequate incentives
to the farmers. GOB has sought to improve the effectiveness of the input
supply system through increased reliance on private sector initiative. It is
also trying to eliminate economic distortions in the allocation of productive
resources in the agriculture sector through measures designed to: (a)
encourage private ownership of irrigation equipment and private participation
in the fielding of such equipment; (b) reduce subsidies on fertilizer and
irrigation equipment with a view to progressively eliminating them; (c)
increase farmers' access to agricultural credit; and (d) motivate farmers to
increase production by setting favorable prices for foodgrains. GOB's
efforts to deal with these complicated policy issues have been only partly
successful. Although subsidies on fertilizers and minor irrigation equipment
have been reduced substantially they may have contributed to a slowdown in
sales and fieldings of irrigation equipment during the last two years. The
agricultural credit system is currently under great stress due to poor
management, and loan recovery is therefore low. Furthermore, progress in the
collection of water charges continues to be disappointing.



-3-
1.06    Water Development.  Three major rivers, high rainfall during the
monsoon season, and ample groundwater supplies constitute a large water
resource base. However, during the May-October wet season one-third of the
cultivated land is deep flooded, one-third is shallow-flooded (less than one
meter of flooding), and one-third is relatively flood-free. Coastal areas
are subject to storm surges and the annual rainfall is erratic. During the
November-April dry season there is little rainfall and surface water supplies
fall, leaving some 60% of the cultivable land unsuitable for existing
varieties of crops or technologies. Efforts to develop water resources for
crop cultivation have concentrated on small scale flood control and drainage
(FCD) schemes, combined with irrigation, where feasible, on shallow-
/medium-flooded (up to two meters of flooding) lands. Irrigation development
efforts have concentrated on minor irrigation, using surface water pumps
along rivers and creeks and tubewells to tap the shallow aquifer. FCD
projects enable farmers to grow high-yielding varieties (HYV) of transplanted
aman rice instead of traditional broadcast varieties during the monsoon
season and protect late-harvested boro and aus rice against early floods.
Irrigation makes it possible to grow HYV boro rice or wheat during the dry
season instead of growing less profitable early monsoon aus rice or jute, or
leaving the land fallow. Irrigation is also practiced at the end of the
monsoon season to supplement rainfall for aman rice. Existing FCD schemes
cover about 20% of the total area of Bangladesh but at least 35% of this area
is potentially suitable for low-cost FCD. Irrigation covers about 22% of
cultivated area, compared to 10% a decade ago, but the potential is for 50%
coverage using shallow aquifers and small surface water schemes, and up to
80% if barrages in the main rivers and/or unexplored deep aquifers under
possible artesian pressure are found feasible.
1.07    The National Water Plan (NWP, December 1986) 1/ distinguishes four
principal modes of water development: (a) flood control and drainage; (b)
major irrigation, involving primary pumps, floating pumps or barrages,
coupled with gravity distribution or secondary pumping; (c) minor irrigation,
involving traditional non-mechanized methods or modern mechanized methods
using HTWs, STWs, DTWs or LLPs; and (d) flood control and drainage combined
with irrigation using double-pumping or single-pumping systems with gravity
distribution. Important subsidiary modes of water development include water
conservation, command area development, and conjunctive operation of surface
and groundwater irrigation systems.
1.08    According to NWP, all modes of development have potentially high
economic rates of return. The highest priority is given to projects involv-
ing irrigation development, either as separate schemes or in combination with
flood control and drainage works. Among the various modes of irrigation
development, minor irrigation is ranked higher than major irrigation. The
1S Preparation of the plan was financed under UNDP Project No. BGD/82/023
(para 1.10), which was executed by the Bank, on the basis of available
secondary data. These data will be validated through field surveys and
investigations during the proposed second phase of the National Water
Project.



-4-
main reasons are that major irrigation schemes require large public capital
and operating expenditures and are relatively slow in generating the
benefits; additionally, thus far GOB's efforts to recover the costs have not
been successful. In contrast, an increasing proportion of capital costs of
minor irrigation is being recovered through sales and rentals of equipment to
the farmers, who also pay most of the operating costs. 1/ FCD, not
associated with irrigation, is ranked lower than irrigation because past
projects had longer gestation periods and showed little or no prospects of
cost recovery. It should be noted, however, that flood control and dkainage
must be carried out, particularly at the micro-level, before rainfed agricul-
ture can be intensified or irrigation developed effectively in most parts of
the country.
B. IDA's Role in Agricultural Development
1.09    IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector,
in recognition of the country's needs and priorities. Particular emphasis
has been placed on developing water resources (irrigation, flood control and
drainage), strengthening agricultural services (technology develnpment and
supply, credit and marketing, extension and research), and developing com-
plementary infrastructural facilities in other sectors (transport, power,
industry, etc.). Increased food production--particularly that of rice and
wheat--has been the main target of IDA's lending in agriculture. Ongoing
IDA-supported projects in the agricultural sector are addressing constraints
to the expansion of irrigation and water control: Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control (SSDFC, Cr. 955-BD), Hand Tubewells (Cr. 1140-BD), Agriculture
Credit (Cr. 1147-ED), Extension and Research II (Cr. 1215-BD), Drainage and
Flood Control II (Cr. 1184-BD), Deep Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD), Rural
Development II (Cr. 1384-BD), BWDB Small Schemes, (Cr. 1467-BD), and Third
and Fourth Flood Control and Drainage (Cr. 1591 and 1784-BD, respectively).
1.10    IDA and GOB staff have also participated in a number of joint
studies. Of special significance was the Land and Water Resources Survey
(1972) that led GOB to change its strategy for developing water resources to
low-cost irrigation and water control schemes. More recent studies include
the Review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (1979), the Minor
Irrigation Sector Review (1982), the Review of Agricultural Credit (1984) and
the BWDB Operations and Maintenance Study (1985). Further details on IDA's
involvement with BWDB are given in paras 1.21-1.23. In addition, the Bank is
the Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project that
is scheduled to enter its second phase in 1988. These studies helped support
agricultural policy reforms, including: (a) privatization of procurement and
distribution of irrigatior. equipment and other farm inputs; (b) rationaliza-
tion of GOB's approaches to foodgrain procurement and farm input pricing; and
(c) improvement of conditions for farmers' access to institutional credit.
1/ In recent years, however, minor irrigation development has been hampered
by slow sales and suboptimal use of equipment. The utilization of
irrigation equipment cannot be improved without major institutional
commitment and support.



-5-
C. First SSDFC Project
1.11    Origin.  In 1975 the National Food-for-Work Programme for Water and
Land Development (FFW) was started in BangladeLn with support from the World
Food Programme (WFP). Under FFW the local people constructed earthworks for
flood protection embankments and excavated drainage and irrigation channels
for payment in the form of wheat. However, FFW did not have the resources to
finance the construction of the permanent control structures needed for the
schemes to yield their potential benefits (see Annex 1 for further details on
FFW). In 1977 the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) made a
Grant of C$5.2 million to GOB to finance the construction of permanent struc-
tures in FFW schemes located in Rajshahi Division and South of Karnafuli
river in Chittagong Division. In 1978 GOB requested that IDA and CIDA expand
the CIDA-supported program to the other parts of the country. IDA agreed to
finance preparation by BWDB of a Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
Project (First SSDFC Project) under a Technical Assistance Credit. The
project was appraised by an IDA mission in February 1979.
1.12    Financing.  An IDA Credit of US$25 million (Cr. 955-BD) was approved
by the Board in October 1979 to finance the construction of permanent struc-
tures in FFW schemes and the procurement of some equipment for BWDB.  CIDA
agreed to finance the project's technical assistance requirements and a
training program for BWDB staff through a Grant of C$11 million.  The IDA
Credit and CIDA Grant were declared effective in May 1980.
1.13  Scope.  Over a period of five years (1980-1984) the First SSDFC Project
was to construct permanent structures in small flood control, drainage and
irrigation schemes in which the earthworks had been completed under FFW. The
structures include drainage regulators, irrigation inlets, water retention
structures, culverts and bridges. At appraisal it had been estimated that
the IDA Credit would finance the completion of about 100 high-priority FFW
schemes which were expected to improve production on about 140,000 ha of
agricultural land. Criteria for the selection of the schemes were formulated
and agreed by GOB and IDAICIDA during appraisal and negotiations. The cost
of completing the schemes was expected to average about US$250 per benefitted
ha.
1.14 Implementation. Not unlike other projects in Bangladesh, the First
SSDFC Project had a slow start. Because the works were dispersed throughout
the entire country and a large number of relatively small structures were
involved, considerable time was spent on survey and design work and a serious
bottleneck developed at this stage of the project during the early years.
Two further events had an effect on the implementation of the project.
First, actual costs of completed subprojects were substantially lower than
estimated at appraisal, i.e. on average about US$70 per benefitted ha,
instead of about US$250. Second, the Bangladesh currency depreciated
gradually from Tkl5.5 -US$1 at appraisal to Tk3l.0 = US$1 at present. As a
result, a larger number of subprojects could be implemented with the avail-
able funds and more time was needed to complete the expanded program.
Altogether coverage of the project has increased twofold to 211 schemes, and
the benefitted area has increased threefold to about 400,000 ha. The closing



-6-
date of the IDA Credit was extended three times until December 31, 1987.
CIDA agreed in 1986 to provide a supplementary Grant of C$3.9 million to
finance technical assistance and an expanded staff training program during
the extended project implementation period.
1.15    As of June 30, 1987, 171 schemes were completed, and work on 40
schemes was carried over to FY88. Actual and estima:ed future values of
civil works for the project are given below:
Actual                      Estimated   Total
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87       FY88
Tk million:    30    55    80   102  136.5  182.5  146          32         764
1.16    Impact evaluation studies for nine completed schemes were conducted
under the project by local consultants (April 1987). The results indicate
that the project objectives have been either partly or fully achieved through
the completion of various works under each subproject. The major accomplish-
ments, in terms of crop production, were: (a) delayed flooding reduced boro
rice crop losses in May/June; (b) lower flood levels or prevention of saline
water intrusion made it possible to shift from low- to high-yielding rice
varieties; and (c) water retained in the khals (natural channels) facilitated
irrigation of boro rice during the dry season, which was not possible before
the project. The positive impact of works constructed in the nine evaluated
subprojects is reflected in the following ranges of increments: (a) cropping
intensity, 12-57X; (b) paddy yields, 16-108Z; and (c) total production of
foodgrains, 24-438%. The increases in crop yields and production were
largest in two subprojects where new irrigation facilities had been provided.
The impact evaluation studies also concluded that the project benefits can
only be sustained if the completed works are adequately operated and main-
tained and agricultural supporting services are strengthened.
D. Bangladesh Water Development 'oard
1.17    Origin, Purpose, and Sources of Financing.  BWDB is a semi-autonomous
agency of the GOB controlled by MOI. It was created by Presidential Order on
May 31, 1972 when the former East Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority (EPWAPDA) was divided into two separate agencies, the BWDB and the
Power Development Board (PDB). Under GOB's Third Five-Year Plan (1985-90)
BWDB is expected to increase the area under surface irrigation from about
290,000 ha to about 600,000 ha, and the area with flood control and drainage
facilities from about 2.6 million ha to about 3.3 million ha. At present
BWDB is responsible for operating and maintaining about 400 completed
projects. The main sources of financing are GOB's Development and Revenue
Budgets, which contributed about US$126 million and US$15 million, respec-
tively, to BWDB's activities in PY87. A third source of support is WFP,
which supplies about US$14 million equivalent of wheat annually for the
construction and maintenance of earthworks in BWDB schemes. Since 1972 IDA
has supported BWDB's program with 11 Credits, totalling US$257 million, for
ten projects. Five projects have been completed, while the other five are in
varying stages of construction.



-7-
1.18    Organization and Staffing.  BWDB is managed by a Board consisting of
a Chairman and five Members who are responsible for Planning, Implementation,
Operation and Maintenance, Finance, and Administration. Until 1985, BWDB's
entire field organization was under the Member in charge of Implementation.
Following the reorganization of BWDB in 1985, parts of the work organization,
headed by four Zonal Chief Engineers, were placed under the Member for Opera-
tion and Maintenance. The field divisions of the O&M organization are
responsible for. (a) O&M of completed schemes; (b) rehabilitation of
deteriorated schemes; and (c) surveys, investigations, and implementation
of new small schemes. Other parts of the work organization, also headed by
four Chief Engineers, have remained under the Member in charge of Implementa-
tion, and are responsible for the implementation of large schemes. At present
BWDB has about 18,000 staff, of which about 2,700 are Class I and II
employees, primarily engineers and other professionals. Of the Class III
and IV employees, about 35Z are technical and accounting staff and 65%
non-technical staff, including work assistants, gauge readers, storekeepers,
clerks, messengers, etc.
1.19    Past Performance.  BWDB's track record in implementing new projects
compares relatively well with other Government organizations in Bangladesh.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) prepared for four completed
IDA-financed projects 1/ indicates that three of those have been successful,
whereas the fourth project (i.e. Barisal Irrigation Project) has not yet
realized its full potential. However, the audit reports also indicate that
all completed projects experienced serious construction delays. On the
average it took about eight years to complete the schemes instead of five
years as originally planned. BWDB has also experienced serious problems with
the O&M of completed projects.
1.20    Current Problems.  BWDB's performance suffers from a number of basic
problems that are common to most GOB organizations and that are only partly
within their control. These include: (a) slow and complicated system of
gaining administrative approval; (b) inadequate incentives for staff to
perform well; (c) inadequate skill levels of staff; and (d) inadequate budget
allocations, particularly under the Revenue Budget. These shortcomings
manifest themselves in BWDB's operations, as indicated below.
(a) Preconstruction Activities. First, BWDB does not have the in-house
capacity to conduct full feasibility studies for its new projects,
particularly the larger ones, and therefore has to rely on consult-
ants for this work. In the past all feasibility studies were done by
foreign consultants, but in recent years an increasing proportion of
1/ (a) Chandpur Irrigation Project, Cr. 340-BD, PPAR Report No. 3436, dated
April 30, 1981.
(b) Karnafuli Irrigation Project, Cr. 605-BD, PPAR Report No. 6521, dated
November 21, 1986.
(c) Barisal Irrigation Project, Cr. 542-BD, PPAR report No. 6521, dated
November 21, 1986.
(d) Muhuri Irrigation Project, Cr. 725-BD, draft PCR of May 1987.



-8-
the work is done by local consultants. Reliance on consultants is
not a negative feature and may be more cost-effective than complete
self-relience. However, the administrative procedures that must be
followed in selecting and appointing consultants are time-consuming
and MOI must approve all appointments. Second, BWDB's capacity to
design project works is of some concern since BWDB has not been able
to retain sufficient numbers of qualified design engineers. As a
result more and more design works are also being contracted out to
consultants, but the designs prepared by consultants often take a
long time to be approved. Third, delays in the start-up of works are
caused by lengthy procedures involved in acquiring land for construc-
tion purposes and the slow transfer of funds. The problems described
above cause long delays in project preparation and implementation.
(b) Quality of Construction.  Poor quality of construction was a major
problem until FY82, but the situation has improved in the last three
years. There remains, however, substantial room for further improve-
ment in quality standards and in strengthening the capacity of BWDB's
supervisory staff.
(c) Operation and Maintenance. O&M of completed schemes is generally
deficient owing to inadequate budget allocations, lack of effective
cost recovery procedures, and shortcomings in BWDB's operational
practices and skill levels of its staff.
(d) Financial Management. BWDB's accounting procedures are too outdated
to adequately monitor the financial progress of construction works.
In addition, it often has substantial reimbursement backlogs and
fails to respond to audit objections.
1.21    IDA Involvement.  Several IDA review missions have found that high
priority should be given to introduction of measures to improve BWDB's
efficiency through limited organizational changes; rationalization and
clarification of operational procedures; and substantial improvement of staff
capabilities. A major review of BWDB's investment program and organization,
undertaken jointly by GOB and the Bank in 1978, concluded that it was vital
to strengthen planning in the water resources sector. As a result,
Bangladesh established the Master Planning Organization (MPO) as a separate
organization under MOI and began the preparation, with UNDP financial assis-
tance, of a National Water Plan (see paras 1.06-1.08). The 1978 Joint Review
also mentioned the importance of strengthening the management and organiza-
tion of BWDB, particularly for the planning and execution of O&M of completed
schemes. A follow-up study, entitled "Strengthening of Organizational and
Implementation Aspects of BWDB," also supported by UNDP, recommended several
changes that have been carried out over the past several years: i.e., the
establishment of the position of a Board Member O&M; establishment of a field
organization specifically responsible for O&M of completed schemes; and
limited decentralization of authority to the field.
1.22    A review of a number of critical aspects of BWDB's operation and
maintenance activities was undertaken by Bank and FAO/CP staff in 1985.
These aspects included: (a) organization, staffing, and staff training for
OMN; (b) agricultural support services in irrigation projects; (c) O&M cost



-9-
estimates, budget allocations, and expenditures; and (d) cost recovery. The
review report was sent to GOB in September 1986. The review findings and
recommendations are being discussed with GOB in conjunction with the prepara-
tion of the proposed BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project, which is scheduled
for appraisal by IDA in FY88. A special study of land acquisition procedures
and problems was undertaken in 1986. Meanwhile, components designed to
upgrade BWDB's capabilities have been included in several ongoing projects.
For example, the BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr. 1467-BD) supports a pilot
program for four newly established O&M field divisions; the results of the
program will be reflected in the design of the proposed BWDB Systems
Rehabilitation Project. The Third Flood Control and Drainage Project (Cr.
1591-BD) supports BWDB's planning and design functions with a view to speed-
ing up preconstruction activities and improving quality; BWDB is now making
extensive use of local consultants in this critical area of its operations.
Finally, staff training components have been included in all recent projects,
of which the CIDA-supported program under the First SSDFC Project and the
UNDP supported program under the BWDE Small Schemes Project are particularly
noteworthy.
1.23    In order to provide a continuing basis for future improvements in
BWDB's capabilities as a public development institution, UNDP agreed to
finance a follow-up study under the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project.
The study covers all relevant aspects of efficient project preparation,
project design, programming of construction works, construction management,
quality control, and operation and maintenance. The review builds on the
findings and recommendations of previous studies and will determine their
relevance for future operations. The study started in July 1987 and is
scheduled to be completed in December 1987.
E. Floods of 1987
1.24    Flooding is a normal feature in Bangladesh' life and is caused by
snowmelt in the upper catchment areas of the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers
and by monsoon rainfall in the lower catchments. Snowmelt reaches a peak in
June resulting in heavy runoff in July and August. About 80% of the annual
rainfall, ranging from 125 cm in the southwest of Bangladesh to more than 500
cm in the northeast, occurs in the five month period, May through September.
They are, however, very large variations in annual rainfall. In years of
heavy flooding, major crop losses and damage to infrastructure occur.
1.25    A major flood disaster took place in July-September 1987 and reported
damages appear to exceed those experienced for at least the last 25 years.
Over 50,000 sq km are reported to have been inundated affecting a population
of over 30 million and causing damage to crop, property, livestock and
infrastructure. It is tentatively estimated that the aman rice crop will
be reduced by about 1.5 million m ton (from a targeted production of 8.6
million m ton) and that damage to major infrastructure is about US$225 mil-
lion. The 1987 floods were caused by a combination of unusually heavy rain-
fall from July through September and the simultaneous rise in water levels in
the main rivers due to upper catchment flows. Rainfall during August was
more than two times higher than normal in most stations. According to the



-10-
Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation no less than 1,200 km of BWDB's flood
embankments, 640 water conrol structures, 220 km irrigation canals and 40 km
town protection works were fully or partially destroyed. Damages to roads,
bridges, culverts and school buildings also reached unprecedented levels.
1.26    In the wake of several earlier natural disasters IDA has supported
GOB's rehabilitation efforts. Assistance included the Coastal Area
Rehabilitation and Cyclone Project, Cr. 339-BD (US$25 million) to finance
rehabilitation works following the cyclone of 1970, and the Flood Rehabilita-
tion Project, Cr. 1587-BD (SDR 31.3 million and savings of US$13.8 million
from the Drainage and Flood Control I and II Projects, respectively, Cr.
864-BD and Cr. 1184-BD) for the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure
after the 1984 floods. In response to GOB's request for assistance in
financing rehabilitation works following the 1987 floods, IDA would support
two complementary programs: (a) a short-term program to finance priority
rehabilitation works in FY88 in several affected sectors through a Second
Flood Rehabilitation Project; and (b) a medium-term program to finance the
balance of the works in the affected sectors by reallocating savings in
ongoing IDA financed projects or by adding flood rehabilitation components to
new IDA lending operations. The present project, therefore, includes a
component to rehabilitate BWDB's infrastructure.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.27    IDA's support for the proposed project is justified for three main
reasons. First, the prdject would be consistent with GOB's and IDA's
strategy for increasing foodgrain production in Bangladesh through invest-
ments in low-cost and quick-yielding flood control, drainage and irrigation
schemes. Second, the project would help improve BWDB's institutional
capacity to plan, construct and maintain water sector projects through (a)
training of BWDB staff; (b) modernization of BWDB's accounting procedures and
financial management systems; and (c) establishment of an Operations and
Maintenance Cost Cell. Third, the project, like its predecessor, would
improve the quality of support provided by WFP and thus enhance collaboration
between IDA and WFP. Support for the flood rehabilitation works is justified
because the 1987 floods have caused substantial damage and brought heavy and
unexpected pressure on the GOB's budget. Without restoration of flood
damaged infrastructure there would be substantial and continuing losses to
the country's economy.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
SSFCDI Works
2.01    Project Background.  Given the positive impact of the First SSDFC
Project, GOB suggested in late 1985, and IDA and CIDA agreed, that prepara-
tion should begin of a second project for financing by the two donors. The
project was prepared in 1986 and early 1987 by BWDB staff and consultants



-11-
under the direction of the Chief Engineer, FFW, and in consultation with FFW
(see Annex 1). Project preparation consisted of three main parts, namely:
(a) an impact evaluation study of nine small subprojects completed tnder
the First SSDFC Project, by Bangladesh National Consultants;
(b) feasibility studies for six new subprojects, prepared by BWDB and
NHCL; and
(c) a review of arrangements for selection, planning, design, construc-
tion, and operation and maintenance of new subprojects and for train-
ing of staff of BWDB and support agencies, also prepared by BWDB and
NHCL.
The project was appraised in May 1987 by a joint IDA/CIDA mission.
2.02    The scope. contents, and organizational arrangements of the project
have been modified in a number of ways on the basis of experience gained
during the implementation of the First SSDFC Project, as explained below.
(a) Integrated Planning and Design of Earthworks and Permanent
Structures. During the early years of the First SSDFC Project per-
manent structures were planned and designed after the earthworks had
already been completed under FFW. However, the lack of adequate
planning of the earthworks often made it difficult, or impossible, to
achieve optimal operational conditions in the subprojects after the
structures were completed. Therefore, in recent years earthworks and
structures of an increasing number of new subprojects are being
planned and designed at the same time. Before subprojects are
selected under the second project, new or additional earthworks would
have to be invesLigated, and required earthworks and structures must
be designed and constructed simultaneously.
(b) Increased Emphasis on Irrigation. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of the National Water Plan, the prospects for new or additional
irrigation development would be investigated for all proposed new
subprojects. Where feasible, investments in irrigation facilities
down to the eight-ha farm turnout level would be provided for in the
design of the subprojects. The farmers would be required to execute
on-farm developments below the eight-ha farm turnouts at their own
cost. The increased emphasis on irrigation is reflected in the
revised project title, i.e. "Second Small Scale Flood Control,
Drainage and Irrigation Project" (Second SSFCDI Project).
(c) Increased Participation by the Beneficiaries. In order to encourage
the beneficiaries to participate in all stages of project planning
and implementation, Project Committees, composed of local government
officials and beneficiaries, would be established at the planning
stage of each subproject. Part of the project's training program
would be for local government officials and farmers.



-12-
(d) Strengthening of BWDB's Implementation Capacity. In accordance with
IDA's strategy to gradually help improve BWDB's capacity to con-
struct, operate, and maintain its projects, the Second SSFCDI Project
include separate components for modernizing BWDB's Finance ane
Account Departments and for enhancing its capacity to estimat, opera-
tion and maintenance costs for all its projects.
2.03    Project Objectives.  First, like its predecessor, the Second SSFCDI
Project would increase agricultural production and farm incomes by supporting
investments in small schemes designed to protect agricultural lands against
floods, prevent salt water intrusion, improve drainage, provide water for
irrigation, or combinations of these. Second, the project would strengthen
BWDB's capacity to implement new projects and to operate and maintain com-
pleted schemes.
Flood Rehabilitation Works
2.04    The proposals for Flood Rehabilitation Works (FRW) were prepared by
BWDB and reviewed by an IDA mission in October 1987. The objective of FRW
would be to restore damaged flood protection, drainage, irrigation and town
protection infrastructure in the shortest posible time in order to minimize
losses to the country's economy.
B. Project Components
2.05    The project would include the following components:
SSFCDI Works
(a) construction of about 215 subprojects covering about 250,000 ha
throughout the country;
(b) operation and maintenance of completed subprojects for about two
years;
(c) training of BWDB staff, local-level staff of support agencies, and
farmers involved in the implementation and O&M of subprojects;
(d) technical assistance for planning, design, and monitoring of con-
struction of subprojects and for training;
(e) procurement of vehicles and special construction equipment;
(f) benchmark and evaluation studies of selected subprojects;
(g) modernization of BWDB's financial management and accounting systems;
and
(h) establishment of an O&M Cost Cell.



-13-
Flood Rehabilitation Works
(i3 rehabilitation of flood protection, drainage, irrigation and town
protection infrastructure;
(j) technical assistance for design and construction monitoring of
rehabilitation works and for a mathematical modelling study of river
sections protected by the existing Brahmaputra Right Embankment; and
(k) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
C. Detailed Features
SSFCDI Works
2.06     Construction of Subprojects (Base Cost US$36.4 million).  The civil
works program would consist of two parts: (a) the completion or rehabilita-
tion of about 200 appurtenant structures subprojects covering about 200,Q00
ha; and (b) the construction of about 15 fully planned subprojects covering
about 50,000 ha. The appurtenant structures subprojects would be similar to
those constructed under the First SSDFC Project. The majority of the sub-
projects would consist of constructing permanent water control structures in
new schemes in which earthworks had been, or are being, undertaken under FFW.
Civil works would include the construction of: (a) regulators, flushing
sluices, and minor structures, such as irrigation and drainage outlets and
water-retaining structures to command areas covering less than 20 ha; and (b)
earthworks directly associated with the structures, such as closure dams,
bypass canals, and earthwork filling at the flanks of the structures. Where
justified, appurtenant structures subprojects would also include rehabilita-
tion and/or repair of permanent water control structures in existing schemes
that have been damaged, either by natural disasters (e.g., floods) or by lack
of preventive maintenance. For all appurtenant structures subprojects, the
need for additional earthworks would be investigated during the planning
stage and would be constructed under FFW. These additional earthworks would
include flood embankments, drainage systems, and, where feasible, facilities
for irrigation. On the basis of experience during the First SSDFC Project,
the cost of the civil works component for appurtenant structures subprojects
over five years has been estimated at US$20 million (about Tk 620 million, in
1987 prices), of which about 85% would be spent on permanent structures and
about 15% on additional earthworks (to be undertaken under FPW). The average
base cost of appurtenant structures subprojects would be about US$100,000
(about Tk 3 million), as under the First SSDFC Project.
2.07    The fully planned subprojects would be new schemes requiring both
earthworks and permanent structures. 1/ Civil works would include combina-
tions of the following elements: (a) construction of new and resectioning of
existing embankments; (b) excavation of new canals and re-excavation of
A representative sample of six subprojects was examined during appraisal
of the project (see Annex 2).



-14-
existing khals so as to improve drainage and primary irrigation supplies; (c)
construction of gravity irrigation distribution systems comprising main,
secondary, and tertiary canals up to farm turnouts commanding eight ha.; (d)
construction of hydraulic structures such as regulators, flushing sluices,
check structures, and water-retaining structures; (e) construction of new and
improvement of existing access roads needed to facilitate works during the
implementation, operation, and maintenance phases. The cost of the civil
works component for the 15 fully planned subprojects has been estimated at
US$10 million (about Tk 310 million, in 1987 prices) over a period of five
years, of which about 65% would be used for permanent structures and about
35% for earthworks. The average base cost per subproject has been estimated
at about US$650,000 (about Tk 20 million).
2.08    By and large, the irrigation  systems to be provided would consist of
primary gravity supplies to improved drainage systems through the storage
of water upstream from drainage regulators, flushing sluices, water retaining
structures and check structures. On the farm, water would be distributed
by means of low-lift pumps and field canals constructed by the farmers them-
selves. About 20,000 ha of the appurternant structures subprojects and about
5,000 ha of the fully planned subprojects would be served by this system.
Where feasible, diversion schemes with gravity distribution systems supplying
water to eight-ha turnouts would be constructed. It is estimated that about
five of the 15 fully planned subprojects would provide this type of irriga-
tion.
2.09    To qualify for financing under the project, subprojects would have to
meet selection criteria that would emphasize their technical, economic and
financial viability. Among other factors, the criteria cover maximum area,
maximum total and per ha investment cost, maximum construction period, and
minimum economic rate of return (see Annex 2 for selection criteria for
appurtenant structures and fully planned subprojects and for details on
appraised and identified subprojects). Schemes on international waterways
that could adversely affect riparian countries would not be selected for
implementation under the project. An assurance was obtained from GOB during
negotiations that BWDB would select subprojects according to the criteria
specified in Annex 2.
2.10    Operation and Maintenance of Subprojects (Base Cost US$1.5 million).
The project would provide for O&M of completed facilities during the con-
struction period and two additional years after completion of all project
works. Thereafter GOB would ensure that sufficient funds are made available
for O&M of the subprojects (see paras 4.12-4.14 for further details). The
average cost of O&M for all subprojects, including O&M of existing
infrastructure in appurtenant structures subprojects that would not be
financed under the project, is estimated at Tk 800 (US$26) per ha. Sub-
projects would be considered completed only when fully operational, i.e.
when: (a) any deficiencies in design or construction of subproject facilities
have been identified and corrected; (b) responsibilities for O&M have been
clearly defined and the O&M procedures established and fully understood by
the staff concerned; and (c) farmers and local staff of GOB support agencies
have been informed about the improved production practices made possible by
the project facilities.



-15-
2.11    Training (Base Cost US$1.0 million).  On the basis of identified
needs, staff training programs developed under the First SSDFC Project would
be continued and expanded under the Second SSFCDI Project, as indicated
below.
(a) Field Workshops. About five four-day workshops would be held each
year in various locations for BWDB diploma holders, work assistants,
surveyors, estimators, and accounts staff; for Upazila-level techni-
cal staff of support agencies; and for contractors. Each workshop
would be attended by about 30 persons. The field workshops would
consist of lectures, slide presentations, and site visits and would
cover planning aspects, design data, dewatering techniques, construc-
tion techniques and quality control, operation and maintenance,
survey and estimating, and billing and reimbursement for small
schemes. In addition, one-day workshops would be held at selected
subproject sites in support of COB's policy concerning transfer of
responsibility for O&M of small schemes to local government entities
and beneficiaries. The need for appropriate O&M techniques and water
management practices would be explained and emphasized in the
workshops.
(b) Dhaka Workshops. Five-day workshops would be conducted in Dhaka each
year for about 30 subdivisional and executive-level engineers. Sub-
jects to be covered would include, among others, hydrology and river
engineering, structure and earthwork design, soil-crop-water
relationships, O&M, water management, and project management. Case
studies of the planning and design of small schemes would be included
in the lecture materials.
(c) Design Workshops. Annual three-day design workshops would be held
in Dhaka to train BWDB engineers in the design methodologies used for
small-scale structures. Participants would include both design and
field engineers to encourage interaction and stimulate discussion.
The use of computers would be introduced in designing small-scale
structures.
(d) AIT Program. Eight-week special courses would be organized each year
at the Asian Institute of Technology (AIT) in Bangkok for about 12
superintending and executive-level engineers to improve their
knowledge about water resource development in Bangladesh. Four
courses would focus on the planning and design of small-scale
projects, and one course on project management, monitoring, and
evaluation. Field visits to selected projects in Thailand would be
part of the courses.
(e) Technical Missions to Canada and Asian Countries. Four visits to
Canada and Asian countries would be organized for groups of about
five senior BWDB engineers to assess the management of water resour-
ces in those countries in order to enable BWDB staff to better
evaluate water development projects for Bangladesh.
2.12    Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$5.6 million).  As in the First
SSDFC Project, CIDA would employ a firm of consultants to help BWDB implement



-16-
the SSFCDI part of the project. Requirements have been estimated at 232
man-months for resident Canadian professional staff, 36 man-months for
short-term Canadian specialists, and 1,697 man-months for Bangladeshi staff
(for details see Annex 2 of the Supplementary Volume). Appointment of the
consultant firm, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit.
2.13    Vehicles and Equipment (Base Cost US$0.8 million).   BWDB's require-
ments for vehicles and equipment for the project were based on a survey of
existing stock and an assessment of planned purchases under other projects.
Equipment to be procured includes concrete-testing equipment and drilling
rigs for investigating foundations (see Annex 7, Table 12). Other equipment,
such as concrete mixers and vibrators, would be supplied by the contractors.
2.14    Benchmark and Evaluation Studies (Base Cost US$0.3 million).  The
project's impact on agricultural production and farmers' incomes would be
ascertained through a series of benchmark and evaluation studies. Each year
benchmark surveys would be undertaken in five representative, newly approved
subprojects to assess pre-project conditions. In addition, evaluation studies
would be conducted each year in five completed subprojects that had been
operational for at least one full year to assess the benefits of the sub-
projects and the arrangements adopted for their O&M. To the extent possible,
evaluation studies would be conducted in subprojects in which benchmark
studies had been undertaken previously. The format for the evaluation field
surveys would be modified to include questions on the pre-project situation
if no benchmark studies had been undertaken earlier. During the early
project years, the evaluation studies would be conducted in schemes completed
under the First SSDFC Project. The findings of the evaluation studies would
be taken into account during the selection, design, and implementation of
future subprojects. An assurance was obtained from GOB during negotiations
that consultants would be appointed, under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, by June 30, 1988, for undertaking the benchmark and evaluation studies.
Further details are given in Annex 3.
2.15    Modernization of BWDB's Financial Management and Accounting Systems
(Base Cost US$1.1 million). The project would assist BWDB in upgrading its
finance, accounts, and internal audit functions and units by: (a) designing
a modern integrated accounting and financial management system with adequate
internal financial controls over program costs, resources, and liabilities;
(b) training of staff in the performance of their duties; and (c) supervising
implementation of the new system. The program would be carried out in two
phases of six and eighteen months, respectively. During Phase I, BWDB's
present accounting procedures, financial management system, and organization
and staffing arrangements would be reviewed and a plan of action for intro-
ducing needed changes and training of staff would be formulated. During
Phase II, a modern accounting and financial reporting system would be
designed, a detailed manual of procedures prepared, and a comprehensive
training program implemented. A qualified firm with wide practical
experience in the design and introduction of modern accounting and financial
reporting systems in developing countries would be selected to execute the
program. Assurances were obtained from GOB during negotiations that (a)
consultants would be appointed, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
by June 30, 1988, to assist BWDB in modernizing its financial management and



-17-
accounting systems; (b) a draft of the plan of action to be formulated by
the consultants during Phase I of their assignment would be submitted to IDA
for comm ents by December 31, 1988; and (c) the plan of action, as agreed
between GOB and IDA, would be implemented thereafter.  Further details are
given in Annex 4.
2.16    Operation and Maintenance Cost Cell (Base Cost US$0.2 million).  BWDB
management requires accurate annual and medium-term O&M cost estimates for
all its projects to serve as a basis for formulating future budget requests
and for determining appropriate water charges in irrigation schemes. To this
end, an O&M Cost Cell would be established at BWDB headqudrters. The Cell
would maintain a computerized register of up-to-date O&M cost estimates for
all completed and new projects. The project would provide for the services
of a consultant with expertise in cost estimating, who would be recruited
internationally, for a period of 12 months to assist BWDB in establishing the
Cost Cell. During the first two months of his assignment the expert would
review BWDB's current procedures for estimating O&M costs and prepare
detailed recommendations for a modern system, including staff and equipment
requirements for the O&M Cost Cell. During the following ten months the
expert would assist BWDB in establishing the new system, train the Cost
Cell's operational staff, and assist the Cost Cell with the preparation of
medium-term O&M cost estimates for all projects, whether operational or still
under construction. An assurance was obtained from GOB during negotiations
that a consultant with expertise in cost estimating would be appointed, under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, by June 30, 1988. Further details
are given in Annex 5.
Flood Rehablitation Works
2.17    Rehabilitation of Flood Protection, Drainage, Irrigation and Town
Protection Infrastructure (Base Cost US$36.1 million). An assurance was
obtained from GOB during negotiations that subprojects selected for
rehabilitation would conform to selection criteria described in Annex 2. The
subprojects would be restored to their original specifications, or to such
higher specifications, including necessary additions or alterations, as may
be warranted to ensure their optimal performance and integrity over a
reasonable life. Restoration works would include filling of embankment
breaches, resectioning, strengthening and protecting of damaged embankments,
and retirement of embankments where the existing location is no longer
tenable. Damaged or destroyed water control structures would be repaired or
replaced. Particular attention would be paid to retaining walls and other
protective works, and replacement of damaged or lost flap gates. Town
protection works maintained by BWDB would be eligible for repair and
rehabilitation under the project. Protective works would include groynes,
sheet piling, brick matressing, boulder and cement blocks revetments, and
flood walls.
2.18    Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$3.5 million).  Technical assis-
tance would be provided under the project, as indicated below.
(a) Consultant services to assist BWDB with the design and construction
monitoring of rehabilitation works. Requirements are estimated at
39 manmonths of internationally recruited consultants' services and



-18-
1,512 manmonths of local consultants' services over a total period of
36 months starting from January 1988.
(b) Consultant services to conduct a mathematical modelling of river
sections protected by the existing Brahmaputra Right Embankment. 1/
Requirements are estimated at 100 manmonths of internationally rec-
ruited consultants' services and 216 manmonths of local consultants'
services over a period of 36 months starting from November 1988.
Appointment of consultants to assist BWDB with the design and construction
monitoring of rehabilitation works, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of effectiveness. An assurance was obtained from COB during
negotiations that consultants for the mathematical modelling study, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed by October 31, 1988. Further details
on the two consultancies are given in the Supplementary Volume, Annex 3 and
4, respectively.
2.19    Vehicles and Equipment (Base Cost US$0.2 million).  Details are given
in Annex 7, Table 11.
D. Project Works
SSFCDI Works
2.20    Status of Project Preparation.  At present preliminary designs and
cost estimates are available for six fully planned and 53 appurtenant struc-
tures subprojects. This provides an adequate basis for determining feasible
targets with respect to numbers and areas of subprojects to be implemented
and the financing required for the project. The first year's construction
program (FY88) would be limited to about 25 appurtenant structures sub-
projects, involving the construction of about 60 new structures and the
repair and/or rehabilitation of about ten existing structures. Detailed
engineering documents were substantially completed by November 1987. Since
no land would need to be acquired, it would be possible to start construction
of the 25 subprojects in FY88. The first year's program would also include
detailed engineering and acquisition of land required for the first six fully
planned subprojects. Construction of the six subprojects would start in
FY89.
2.21    Implementation Standards.  All embankments would be adequately com-
pacted and wolld have sufficient free board to avoid overtopping caused by
1/ Before the recent floods occurred, preliminary discussions on
the proposed study had already taken place between COB and IDA.
While this study would not provide results which could
be used in planning the present flood rehabilitation works, it
would provide a basis for designing better balanced and more
effective future protection works along the Brahmaputra river.



-19-
wave action, subsidence of the crest due to shrinkage and subsoil settlement,
and erosion due to human and animal use. Following past practice in
Bangladesh, the design water level is based on a return period of 20 years.
The embankments would have a free board of 0.9 m above this design level.
Although all contracts and FFW work orders clearly specify the required
degree of compaction, the quality achieved in earthfill embankments con-
structed under earlier IDA-financed projects and FFW remains unsatisfactory.
Substandard work constitutes a hazard to the local population and could
jeopardize all investments in the subproject areas. Therefore, the project
provides for improving construction supervision by BWDB field engineers and
consultant staff. In order to ensure proper compaction, tender documents
would specify two separate rates: (a) earth would be excavated and tran-
sported from borrow and placed in layers of 15 cm; and (b) earth clods would
be broken, leveled, watered, if needed, and compacted by labor-intensive
methods, using hand tampers. In order to enforce high compaction standards,
BWDB's executive engineers would be required to certify in the supporting
documentation for withdrawal applications that compaction was done to the
specifications described in the contract agreement (para 3.12).
2.22    The design of all drainage systems, whether constructed under con-
tract or through FFW, would be based on a runoff of ten days, rainfall with a
submergence duration not exceeding three days and a return period of ten
years for a submergence period not exceeding six days. Drainage systems
would generally follow existing khal and river courses and would not differ
widely from the pre-project flow direction. Hydraulic capacity of drainage
regulators would be determined from an analysis of the drainage basin for
varying options of capacities that would discharge peak flood flows in the
quickest possible time with a minimum submerged area. Design levels of
embankments and regulator sills and drainage rates for determining grades and
profiles of drainage canals would be determined from this analysis.
2.23    Roads and embankments would be paved, where required, to a width of
2.4 m using herringbone brick paving, in accordance with established local
standards for rural roads.
2.24    Land Acquisition.  Land requirements for the fully planned sub-
projects are estimated at about 215 ha for a gross benefitted area of about
50,000 ha. Requirements for the appurtenant structures subprojects would be
much smaller and are estimated at only about 200 ha for a gross benefitted
area of about 200,000 ha. Land acquisition has been a major obstacle to the
timely implementation of earlier BWDB projects because of the lengthy
administrative process and insufficient, or delayed, funding by GOB. In order
to avoid delays in the start-up of the project, the first year's program
would not include works requiring the acquisition of land. With regard to
land requirements for subsequent years, assurances were obtained from GOB
during negotiations that (a) land acquisition applications would be processed
and adequate funding would be allocated nine months prior to the construction
of the works, and (b) possession of the land would be obtained by BWDB at
least one month before construction would commence.
2.25    Surveys and Investigations.  Engineering surveys would be carried out
for all subprojects and would include earthworks to be undertaken under FFW.



-20-
The surveys would include longitudinal and cross-section surveys for embank-
ments and drainage canals, topographical surveys for irrigation subprojects,
and site surveys for structures. For major and medium-sized hydraulic struc-
tures, geotechnical investigations would also be conducted.
Flood Rehabilitation Works
2.26    BWDB is presently finalizing the detailed list of flood damaged
projects. A list of projects identified upto September 30, 1987 is given in
Annexes 5 and 6 of the Supplementary Volume. In order to minimize the
adverse effects of the floods, priority works to be completed before the
onset of the 1988 monsoon would be included in the proposed Second Flood
Rehabilitation Project (see para 1.26). BWDB is expected to complete all
preconstruction activities, including contract awards, for the FY88 work
program before January 31, 1988. Land acquisition may be required for
retirement of flood embankments but is not expected to be an obstacle as GOB
intends to give priority to FRW in the allocation of funds and the
administrative process. Engineering surveys and geotechnical investigations,
if needed, would be conducted by BWDB O&M divisions. Quality control of
civil works would be ensured by BWDB field staff with the assistance of the
consultants (see para 2.18).
E. Implementation Schedule
SSFCDI Works
2.27   In accordance with the agreed criteria for selection of subprojects,
construction of appurtenant structures subprojects would be completed within
two construction seasons (i.e., January-June) and that of fully planned
schemes within three construction seasons. There would be five batches of
appurtenant structures subprojects, the first of which would be constructed
in FY88-FY89 and the last in FY92-FY93. Fully planned subprojects would be
grouped into three batches, the first of which would be constructed in
FY89-FY91 and the last in FY91-FY93. Pre-construction activities for the
first batches of subprojects have already been started in early FY87. Opera-
tion and maintenance expenditures would be financed under the project for two
years after completion of project works, starting in FY90 for the first batch
of appurtenant structures schemes and ending in FY95. The program to modern-
ize BWDB's accounting and financial management systems would be undertaken in
FY89 and FY90 and support for the establishment of the O&M Cost Cell would be
provided in FY89. The total project implementation period would be eight
years, starting in July 1987 (pre-construction activities) and ending June
30, 1995. The detailed implementation schedule is given in Annex 6.
Flood Rehabilitation Works
2.28    Rehabilitation works would be undertaken over a period of three years
starting in the FY88 dry season and ending by June 30, 1990. The implementa-
tion schedule is given in Annex 6.



-21-
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Cost
3.01    Total project cost is estimated at Tk 3,641 million (US$111.0 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of US$19.7 million or 18% of total
cost (Table 3.1 and Annex 7). Estimates are based on late 1987 contract
prices. Investment costs of the SSFCDI subprojects are expected to vary
widely depending on category (fully planned, new appurtenant structures,
rehabilitation, and repairs works), type (flood control, drainage, irriga-
tion), size and already existing infrastructure.
3.02    Project costs include US$3.6 million in taxes and duties.  Physical
contingencies are estimated at 10% of the base cost of subproject construc-
tion. Price contingencies are e'timated on the basis of expected rates of
local and foreign inflation as projected by the Bank. Future foreign
exchange rates are also based on current Bank projections. 1/
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  FQreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--Tk m-------- ---------US$m--------
SSFCDI Works
A. Construction of Subprojects:
Land Acquisition              83      -        83    2.7       -       2.7       -
Surveys and Investig-
ations                        6     -          6    0.2       -       0.2       -
Civil Works                  783    153       936   25.2    5.0       30.2      16
Engineering and Adminis-
tration                    102     -        102    3.3      -        3.3       -
Subtotal                   974    153    1,127   31.4    5.0        36.4      14
B. Operation and Maintenance   48        -         48    1.5      -        1.5      -
C. Technical Assistance and
Training                     92    119       211    3.0    3.8        6.8      56
D. Equipment and Vehicles        11      14        25    0.4    0.4        0.8      55
B. Benchmark and Evaluation
Studies                      10     -         10    0.3      -        0.3       -
F. Modernization of BWDB
Accounts                      3      30       33    0.1    1.0         1.1     90
G. O&M Cost Cell                  1       5         6    0.0    0.2        0.2     90
Subtotal SSFCDI Works  1,139    321    1,460   36.7   10.4          47.1      22
1/  FY                        88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95
Local Inflation   %    12    10        9     8       7     7      7      7
Foreign Inflation %       3     1      1     1      3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5
US$1  =  Tk              31.0  32.3  32.6  33.3  34.0  34.7  35.4  36.1



-22-
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--Tk m- --   -------US$mM--------
Flood Rehabilitation Works
H. Construction Works:
Land Acquisition              80     -         80    2.6      -        2.6      -
Civil Works                  786    152       938   25.4    4.9       30.3     16
Engineering and Admin-
istration                   100p    -        100    3.2      -        3.2      -
Subtotal                  966    152    1,118   31.2    4.9        36.1      14
I. Technical Assistance          41     67       108    1.3    2.2        3.5     63
J. Equipment and Vehicles         3       3        6    0.1    0.1        0.2      50
Subtotal FRW            1,010    222    1,232   32.6    7.2         39.8     18
Base Cost               2,149    543    2,692   69.3   17.6         86.9     20
Physical Contingencies        178     37       215    5.7    1.2        6.9     17
Price Contingencies           670     64       734   16.3    0.9       17.2       5
Total Cost              2,997    644    3,641   91.3   19.7    111.0         18
B. Project Financing
3.03    The IDA Credit of SDR 61.7 million (US$81.5 million equivalent) would
cover about 76% of total project cost, excluding taxes and duties. It would
include US$200,000 for retroactive financing of pre-construction activities
for SSFCDI subprojects undertaken between project appraisal and Board presen-
tation. CIDA would finance technical assistance, training, and studies,
including modernization of BWDB's accounting system, establishment of an O&M
Cost Cell and benchmark and evaluation studies for the SSFCDI part of the
project. The CIDA grant of C$12.5 million (US$9.6 million) would cover 9% of
project cost, net of taxes and duties. Signing of the co-financing agreement
between GOB and CIDA would be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA
Credit. GOB would finance the remainder of project cost, i.e., US$19.9
million, of which about US$4.0 million equivalent would be contributed by WFP
in the form of foodgrains for the SSFCDI part of the project. The balance of
GOB's contribution, US$15.9 million, including US$3.6 million taxes and
duties, would be made available through annual budget appropriations in
conformity with the project implementation schedule. Approval of the Project
Proforma by GOB would be a condition of effectiveness. Table 3.2 summarizes
the project financing plan by project component. Further details are given
in Annex 8.



-23-
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
TUS$ million)
IDA     CIDA     GOB      Total
SSFCDI Works
Land Acquisition                                -        -       3.5      3.5
Surveys and Investigations                     0.3       -        -       03
Civil Works                                   33.2       -       7.7     40.9
Engineering and Administration                 3.8       -       0.4      4.2
Operation and Maintenance                      1.8        -      0.5      2.3
Technical Assistance and Training               -        7.9      -        7.9
Equipment and Vehicles                         0.5       -       0.3      0.8
Benchmark and Evaluation Studies                -       0.4       -       0.4
Modernization of BWDB Accounts                  -        1.1      -        1.1
O&M Cost Cell                                   -        0.2      -        0.2
Subtotal                                    39.6      9.6    12.4      61.6
Flood Rehabilitation Works
Land Acquisition                                -         -      3.2       3.2
Civil Works                                   34.3       -       3.8     38.1
Engineering and Administration                 3.5       -       0.4       3.8
Technical Assistance                           4.1        -       -       4.1
Equipment and Vehicles                         0.1       -       0.1      0.2
Subtotal                                    41.9       -       7.5     49,4
Total Financing Required                    81.5      9.6    19.9    111.0
C. Procurement
3.04    General.  Subsequent to a detailed review of BWDB's procurement
procedures, GOB agreed to conform fully to IDA procuremk.nt guidelines.
3.05    Civil Works.  Civil works (US$67.5 million, excluding taxes and
duties) would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB)
because all works are relatively small, labour intensive, geographically
scattered in areas with difficult access and are to be constructed over a
period of five years. The works would, therefore, be carried out under
contracts let through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable
to IDA. Contracts for earthworks would be awarded in reaches, while major
structures would generally be let under separate contracts. GOB recently
decided to discontinue the practice of awarding contracts for structures on
the understanding that BWDB supply construction materials and equipment to
the contractors. As an exception to the new arrangement, the fabrication of
gates and lifting equipment would be awarded separately under LCB procedures
to contractors specializing in this type of work or would be executed on
force account (FA) by BWDB's mechanical engineering unit. PA work, for the
fabrication of gates and lifting arrangements would be limited to US$10,000



-24-
for each structure up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million. Bid docu-
ments for the structures would be issued only to prequalified bidders.
8WDB's prequalification procedures are adeo-ate to assess the bidder's
capacity to undertake the works.
3.06    For civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000,
bid documents would be submitted for IDA's prior review, and IDA's concur-
rence would be obtained before contracts are awarded. This would involve
about 20% of expected contracts valued at about 30% of the estimated total
cost of civil works. For contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or less, bid
documents and evaluations would be retained by BWDB and made available to IDA
representatives upon request. FA work in respect of earthworks would be
restricted to amounts under US$5,000 for each case up to an aggregate amount
of US$400,000.
3.07    Earthworks in appurtenant structures subprojects required for
improvements to the drainage networks and for the construction of new embank-
ments or the resectioning of existing embankments would be executed under FFW
according to procedures agreed between GOB and WFP. The value of these works
is estimated at about US$4.0 million.
3.08    Surveys and Investigations.  Surveys and investigations (US$0.3
million, excluding taxes and duties) would be undertaken by BWDB on FA or
would be carried out under contract through LCB.
3.09    Equipment and Vehicles.  Equipment and vehicles (US$1.0 million,
excluding taxes and duties) include testing and investigation equipment and
transport vehicles. Spares amounting to about 15% of the value of the equip-
ment and vehicles would be procured along with these items. The procurement
of all construction equipment and vehicles, with the exception of two speed
boats and two 40 HP engines with two spare 40 HP engines (to be procured
under prudent shopping), would be on ICB (See Annex 9, Schedule 2) and would
conform to the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits." For procurement under ICB (about US$0.6 mil-
lion), a preference limited to 15% of cif price or the prevailing customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Items procured by prudent shopping would be done after
comparing bids from at least three independent suppliers in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Such procurement would be limited to a maximum
of US$100,000. Tender documents for procurement of equipment and vehicles
and advertising procedures would be reviewed by IDA before being issued by
IWDB and bid evaluations would be reviewed by IDA before contracts are
awarded.
3.10    Technical Assistance, Training and Studies.  Consultants services
for the 3SFCDI part of the project (US$9.6 million) would be contracted by
CIDA. BWDB would contract consultants services for the FRW part of the
Iroject (US$4.1 million) und:r arrangements which would conform to the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency".



-25-
Table 3.3: Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
SSFCDI Works                              ICB      L',B    FA       Other   Total
Land Acquisition                           -                -        3.5     3.5
Surveys and Investigations                 -       0.2     0.1        -      0.3
(0.2)   (0.1)             (0.3)
Civil Works                                -      35.7     1.2        -     36.9
(32.1)   (1.0)            (33.1)
Earthwork on FFW b/                        - -              -        4.0     4.0
Engineering and Administration             -        -       -        4.2     4.2
(3.8)   (3.8)
Operation and Maintenance                   -       -       -        2.3      2.3
(1.8)   (1.8)
Technical Assistance and Training c/       -        -       -        7.9      7.9
Equipment and Vehicles                    0.7                        0.1     0.8
(0.55)                    (0.05)  (0.6)
Benchmark and Evaluation Studies c/                 -       -        0.4     0.4
Modernization of BWDB Accounts c/          -        -       -        1.1      1.1
O&M Cost Cell c/                            -               -        0.2     0.2
Subtotal                                0.7    35.9      1.3      23.7    61.6
(0.55) (32.3)   (1.1)   (5.65)  (39.6)
Flood Rehabilitation Works
Land Acquisition                           -        -       -        3.2      3.2
Civil Works                                -      37.4     0.7        -     38.1
(33.7)   (0.6)            (34.3)
Engineering and Administration             -                - -      3.8     3.8
(3.5)   (3.5)
Technical Assistance                       -        -       -        4.1     4.1
(4.1)   (4.1)
Equipment and Vehicles                    0.13      -       -        0.07    0.2
(0.6)     -       -       (0.03)  (0.09)
Subtotal                                0.13   37.4      0.7      11.17   49.4
(0.06) (33.7)   (0.6)    (7.63) (41.99)
Total                                   0.83   73.3      2.0      34.87  111.0
(0.61) (66.0)   (1.7)   (13.28) (81.59)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
b/  Value of foodgrains allocated by WFP and included in the financing plan
as COB's contribution.
c/ Financed by CIDA.



-26-
D. Disbursements
3.11    Disbursements of the IDA credit would extend over the period
1988-1995 and would cover:
(a) 90% of expenditures on civil works, including construction materials;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported vehicles and equip-
ment;
(c) 100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within the
country;
(d) 70% of local expenditures on vehicles and equipment procured locally;
(e) 100% of expenditures on surveys and investigations;
(f) BWDB's expenditures on engineering and administrati.n. at the rate
of 10% of expenditures for civil works contracts, including construc-
tion materials and earthworks undertaken with FFW under the project;
(g) 100% of expenditures for O&M of cointleted SSFCDI subprojects until
FY93; 75% in FY94; and 50% in FY95; and
(h) 100% of foreign and local expenditures for technical assistance for
FRW.
3.12    Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for items (f) and (g) above, for works executed under
force account and for small civil works contracts and locally procured equip-
ment and vehicles costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000 for each
contract. For these items, applications would be supported by statements of
expenditures certified by the Project Director and the Project Accountant of
the SSFCDI and PRW Implementation Units, respectively. The relevant documen-
tation would be retained by BWDB at a central location and made available for
review by IDA representatives on request. In addition, this documentation
would be subject to audit. Supporting documentation for withdrawal applica-
tions for construction of earthworks would be certified by BWDB's executive
engineer that compaction was done to the specifications described in the
contract agreement. All documentation sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications for the SSFCDI part of the project, including the statements of
expenditures, would have been checked and certified by the project consult-
ants.
3.13    The disbursement schedule (Annex 8) reflects the anticipated sequence
of activities in project implementation and has been based on the assumption
that disbursements for works done in a quarter would be completed within the
next two quarters. The disbursement profile for water development projects
has been nine years. However, in view of the continuation of construction
work between the first and the second project, an eight-year implementation
period for the second project is considered feasible.



-27-
3.14    Project works would be carried out by a large number of small con-
tractors whose construction capability depends heavily upon the speed at
which they receive progress payments, and by force account. To facilitate
payments, to ensure availability of funds, and to reduce the number of
withdrawal applications submitted to IDA, COB would open and thereafter
maintain two Special Accounts in U.S. dollars with the Bangladesh Bank in
Dhaka for the SSFCDI and FRW parts of the project, respectively. The
authorized allocation for the Special Account for the SSFCDI part of the
project would be US$4 million equivalent and for the FRW part US$6 million
equivalent. These allocations represent an estimated four months of
IDA-financed expenditures. The Special Accounts would be replenished through
reimbursements on a monthly basis and would be used exclusively for IDA's
share of financing.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.15    BWDB would maintain adequate records to identify physical progress
and financial transactions relating to the project. Individually identifi-
able accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (para 3.12).
Separate project accounts would be kept by BWDB. Auditors acceptable to IDA
would audit these accounts and statements of expenditures, where applicable.
Audited accounts, together with auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year. At present, BWDB's
accounts are audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh
and by BWDB's Internal Directorate of Audits. These arrangements are satis-
factory to IDA.
F. Environmental Aspects
3.16    The project would have a mix of environmental effects whose net
effect would be positive though not readily quantifiable. The most easily
observable negative effects would be a reduction in the ease of water tran-
sportation in some of the subprojects caused by the construction of sluice
structures at the confluence of khals and rivers; a decline in fish catches
in some subproject areas caused by a lack of replenishment of fry and fin-
gerlings; and a similar decline in shrimp catches for subprojects in coastal
areas. To counteract these adverse impacts, experience indicates that resi-
dents of the affected areas will transfer loads between river boats and khal
boats. They would also periodically seed ponds with fingerlings and, as part
of O&M procedures, regulator gates would be operated appropriately to maxi-
mize fish migration. A study of the impact of flood control measures, cur-
rently being undertaken under the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr 1591-BD), is expected to identify ways to limit possible negative impacts
and to propose a program of fisheries development in flood control and
4rainage projects. Balanced against the possible negative impacts would be
environmental improvements from reduced flood damage, better access to
properties, better drainage of areas with excess moisture (an important
public health benefit) and, for irrigation subprojects, improved groundwater
replenishment. The project would reinforce the current practice of not
undertaking subprojects unless the planners and the people concerned agree



-28-
that the positive impact of the subproject works outweighs the expected
negative effect.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANACEMENT
A. Construction of Project Works
SSFCDI Works
4.01    Management Structure (Refer to Organization Chart, W31250).  At BWDB
headquarters, the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU, previously named
Planning and Monitoring Cell), headed by a Project Director under the
administrative and technical direction of the Chief Engineer, FFW, would be
responsible for the planning, design, and monitoring of project works under
construction and for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of completed works
during project implementation. The Unit would be assisted by a separate BWDB
Design Circle and by consultants designated as the Canadian Technical Unit
(CTU).
4.02    Responsibilities would be as follows:
(a) for the fully planned subprojects, CTU would be responsible for the
preparation of the identification and feasibility reports, and for
the detailed engineering designs and plans;
(b) for the appurtenant structures subprojects, excluding repair and
rehabilitation works, CTU would be responsible for the preparation of
the identification and feasibility reports, while the Design Circle
would be fully responsible for the detailed engineering designs;
(c) for repair and rehabilitation works, CTU would be responsible for the
preparation of identification reports and for the detailed engineer-
ing designs and plans.
(d) BWDB would review and approve the feasibility reports; the detailed
designs of all subprojects would be approved by the Chief Engineer,
Design; and
(e) CTU would be responsible for monitoring of construction, progress
reporting, and checking of reimbursement applications, and would also
assist BWDB with the development of a workable plan of operation for
O&M of the subprojects.
Further details on structure and terms of reference of PIU, CTU, and Design
Circle are given in Annex 2 of the Supplementary Volume.
4.03    At the field level,  BWDB$s Executive Engineers would be responsible
for identifying subprojects (in cooperation with local authorities - para
4.06); conducting engineering surveys and geotechnical investigations;
preparing bills of quantities, estimates, land acquisition plans, and tender
documents; calling tenders, and issuing work orders. The Executive



-29-
Engineers, through the Subdivisional Engineers and Section Officers, would
also be responsible for construction and O&M during project implementation,
including the preparation of the O&M manuals (see para 4.13). CTU would
monitor the on-site supervision of construction work by BWDB staff to ensure
that works meet the design requirements and specifications of the contract
agreements.
4.04    Subproject Committee.  In order to ensure that local government
agencies are directly involved and to encourage active participation by the
beneficiaries in all stages of project planning and implementation, a Sub-
project Committee would be established at the planning stage for each sub-
project. The Committee would consist of the Chairmen of the Upazila and
lunion Parishads in which the subproject is located, Upazila Nirbahi Officer
(JNO), Upazila Engineer, Upazila-based officers of DAE, BADC, BRDB, and the
Directorate of Fisheries, BWDB's Executive or Subdivisional Engineer, and
about seven representatives of the high-land, medium-land and low-land
farmers, fishermen, boatmen, landless and others, respectively, to be
selected in a meeting of all subproject beneficiaries. The Committee would
be headed by the Upazila Chairman while the Executive or Subdivisional
Engineer of BWDB would be the Committee's secretary. The Committee would
meet quarterly, or more frequently, as needed. An assurance was obtained
from COB during negotiations that a Subproject Committee, as described abovey
would be established at the planning stage of each subproject.
4.05    Among others, the major functions of each Subproject Committee woul4
be to:
(a) disseminate information on planning, implementation, operation and
maintenance of the subproject and to seek beneficiaries' reactions
and consantg
(b) assist in the process of land acquisition as required by the sub-
project works;
(c) develop ways and means to ensure beneficiaries' active participation,
either in cash and/or labor contributions, in the operation and
maintenance of the completed works and to assist in the preparation
of a plan of operation in the detailed engineering phase;
(d)  oversee the establishment of adequate agricultural supporting serv-
ices, including strengthened agricultural extension, supply of seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides, provision of credit, etc.; and
(e) undertake other actions in support of the subproject objectives and
to resolve problems arising during various stages of project
implementation.
4.06    Identification and Selection of Subprojects.  Subprojects would be
identified by BWDB field divisions with the assistance of staff of local
authorities and beneficiaries and would conform to the selection criteria
described in Annex 2. The recommended format for the identification report
is given as Proforma One in Annex 1 of the Supplementary Volume.



-30-
4.07    Feasibility Planning.  A full feasibility report would be required
for the fully planned subprojects. For appurtenant structures subprojects,
excluding repair and rehabilitation works, limited feasibility studies,
including an assessment of the economic rate of return, would be conducted
after identification and screening of the subprojects. For repair and
rehabilitation works, detailed engineering would be undertaken after accept-
ance of the subproject at the screening phase. Proformas Two and Three of
Annex 1 of the Supplementary Volume describe the recommended format for the
studies.
4.08    Detailed Engineering.  Documentation would include detailed designs,
subproject plans, construction drawings, land acquisition plans, bills of
quantities, cost estimates, and tender documents for structures and
earthworks. Detailed engineering documents would be completed before Septem-
ber of each year to ensure that estimates are sanctioned by the appropriate
BWDB authority and the contract is awarded before December. Topographical
surveys and geotechnical investigations would be completed at least one year
before the start of construction and would be undertaken by BWDB's own staff
or by contractors following local competitive bidding.
4.09    Construction.  Civen the short construction season in Bangladesh
(January to June for structures, and January to April for earthworks),
implementation would depend on: (a) timely completion of preconstruction
activities and proper scheduling of subproject works; (b) selection of com-
petent contractors who are experienced in building similar works, are finan-
cially sound, and have enough experienced staff and construction equipment;
and (c) adequate financial provisions under the Annual Development Program
for project aid and GOB counterpart funds, especially for land acquisition.
In order to ensure that subprojects would be implemented in accordance with
agreed work programs, periodic review meetings would be held (see para 4.11)
and requirements for prequalification of contractors would be rigidly
enforced.
4.10    Quality control at construction sites, specifically in embankment
works, would be strictly enforced. Lack of trained field staff and insuffi-
cient monitoring by BWDB supervisory staff have been identified as the main
reasons for substandard work in earlier IDA-financed projects. In order to
improve standards, PIU, with the assistance of CTU, would prepare a construc-
tion manual describing construction methods for project works such as embank-
ments, drainage canals, and hydraulic structures and fabrication and instal-
lation of gates and lifting mechanisms. The manual would also describe the
supervision requirements, including checks and tests to be conducted at
critical phases of the work, inspection programs for BWDB senior staff, PIU,
and CTU and the responsibilities of various categories of field staff. In
addition, the number of sub-assistant engineers conducting on-site supervi-
sions would be increased. Assurances were obtained from GOB during nego-
tiations that (a) a construction manual for the project would be submitted to
IDA for review by June 30, 1988, and (b) 40 sub-assistant engineers would be
assigned to the subproject sites from the FY89 construction season until the
completion of construction works.



-31-
4.11    Review Meetings.  Five-party meetings of representatives of MOI,
BWDB, CIDA, IDA, and WFP would be held in September and May of each year.
The following subjects would be covered in the meetings:
(a) First Meeting (September). The screening report, which would include
a ranking of proposed new subprojects, would be reviewed during this
meeting. Decisions would be taken on the transfer of: (i) proposed
fully planned subprojects to the feasibility phase; (ii) proposed
appurtenant structures subprojects, except repair and rehabilitation
works, to the limited feasibility phase and detailed engineering; and
(iii) proposed rehabilitation and repair works to the detailed
engineering phase. The meeting would also discuss and approve a
costed work program for surveys and investigations for the approved
subprojects. These surveys and investigations would commence in
December of each year.
(b) Second Meeting (May). The meeting would: (i) review progress of
surveys, investigations, and detailed engineering studies agreed upon
during the first meeting; and (ii) assess the work to be achieved
before September of the next fiscal year. Furthermore, on the basis
of the draft proposal for allocation of funds under the ADP for the
next fiscal year, the PIU would present a costed work program for
discussion at the meeting.
An assurance was obtained from GOB during tiegotiations that the finalized
annual work program would be submitted to IDA for review by July 31 of each
year of project implementation.
4.12    Operation and Maintenance.  An adequate level of O&M would be essen-
tial for realization of project benefits. Maximum involvement of the
beneficiaries would be required for successful O&M. The O&M plan would have
to take into account the special conditions of each subproject. Project
investments would be diverse and complex in nature as they would include
works to protect land against floods, improve drainage conditions, facilitate
irrigation, and prevent ii.trusion of salt water. These works would be under-
taken either separately or, more often, in varying combinations with each
other. In many subprojects, beneficiaries have conflicting interests. It
would therefore not always be possible to finalize arrangements and assign
responsibilities for O&M to the beneficiaries, or local government
authorities, until the subprojects become operational and their effects are
fully appreciated by the people concerned. The implementing agency, BWDB,
would remain responsible for O&M of the subprojects until they are fully
completed, as defined in para 2.10, and the beneficiaries and/or local
government institutions are ready to assume this responsibility.
4.13    Before handing over the responsibility for O&M, BWDB's Executive
Engineer would prepare and finalize an O&M manual for each subproject, which
would specify the technical, organizational, and financial requirements for
optimal operation of project facilities. The manuals would be prepared in
full consultation with the Subproject Committees (para 4.04) and their sub-
stance discussed in meetings of all beneficiaries. As a first step in the
preparation of the O&M manuals, an operational plan would be drawn up by BWDB



-32-
at the detailed engineering phase of each subproject. Depending on the type
of works, the operational plan would cover:
(a) operational requirements, e.g., operation of drainage regulators to
control floods and ensure primary gravity irrigation supply, where
feasible; operation of flushing sluices to ensure gravity irrigation
supply; adoption of rotational systems for water issues from main,
secondary, and tertiary distribution systems in gravity irrigation
subprojects; effective use of water by the beneficiaries in primary
gravity supply subprojects;
(b) inspection requirements for embankments, drainage channels and struc-
tures;
(c) maintenance requirements, including preventive maintenance, such as
servicing of equipment, removal of obstructions in channels, repair
of potholes in roads; annual maintenance such as desilting of drains,
removal of water hyacinth, resectioning of embankments, repair of
regulators, replacement of gates; and emergency repairs related to
floods, erosion, and wave action;
(d) organization and staffing requirements, specifying the proposed
responsibilities and tasks of local authorities and beneficiaries, as
well as qualifications and numbers of staff needed for O&M; and
(e) financing requirements, specifying proposed sources and use of funds
for O&M, including proposed contributions in cash or kind by the
beneficiaries.
4.14    The operational plan would be fully discussed with the Subproject
Committees before the start of construction works. The final O&M manuals
would describe all elements of the operational plan discussed above, and
would specify the responsibilities of all entities and individual staff
involved in O&M of the subprojects. The final O&M manuals would also include
as-built drawings of subproject infrastructure and maintenance plans indicat-
ing sections of operation. Assurances were obtained from GOB during neto-
tiations that (a) an operational plan would be prepared by BWDB during the
detailed engineering phase of each subproject; and (b) a detailed O&M manual
would be finalized within two years after completion of construction work
of each subproject.
Flood Rehabilitation Works
4.15    Management Structure (Refer to Organization Chart, W31250-2). At
BWDB headquarters, the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, headed by a
Director under the administrative and technical direction of the Chief
Engineer, Monitoring and Evaluation, would be responsible for the coordina-
tion of project activities and the monitoring of physical and financial
progress. The Unit would be assisted by a consultancy firm (responsibilities
described in Annex 3) and by a Design Circle of BWDB. The Member O&H would
act as the principle contact with IDA for project matters.



-33-
4.16    At the field level, BWDB's Executive Engineers of the O&M Divisions,
under the supervision of their Circle Superintending Engineer and the Zonal
Chief Engineer, would be responsible for the reconstruction works. Respon-
sibilities would include preparation of bill of quantities, estimates and
tender documents; selection of contractors following BWDB procedures and
award of contracts; construction supervision and quality control; implementa-
tion of work under force account; and accounting and financial control.
Assistance for design work, when required, would be provided by the consult-
ants.
B. Supporting Components
4.17    Training.  Under the direction of the Project Director, CTU would be
responsible for the preparation of course materials and for the implementa-
tion of the training program. The Project Director would coordinate with
BWDB's Directorate of Training and officers in charge of training programs
conducted under other BWDB projects to avoid duplication of efforts.
4.18    Technical Assistance.  CIDA would employ qualified consultants to
provide the necessary technical assistance and training expertise to the
project. The consultants would work under the direction of the Project
Director of BWDB.
4.19    Monitoring of Construction Progress.  A computerized system of
monitoring the physical and financial progress of construction works has been
developed under the First SSDFC Project. The information available in the
system is regularly updated and made available to BWDB management, MOI, the
Planning Commission, IDA, and CIDA in the form of summary monthly progress
reports and comprehensive quarterly reports. The available information
covers key subjects such as changes to the program, pre-construction and
construction activities, project cost, availability of funds, training
activities and demonstration programs. Each progress report includes a
detailed status repo-t on civil works contracts for all ongoing and completed
subprojects. The system would be continued under the Second SSFCDI Project
and expanded, if necessary, to meet the requirements of BWDB's Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit. This Unit was established recently in the office of the
Chairman, BWDB, to monitor the activities of all BWDB projects for the pur-
pose of managing project implementation. The Unit is developing a comprehen-
sive management information system with support from the IDA-financed Fourth
Flood Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 1784-BD).
4.20    Impact Evaluation.  The responsibility for monitoring and evaluation
for the purpose of assessing the impact of investment programs in the water
sector was recently assigned to the Planning Cell of MOI. This Cell, which
is also supported under the Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project, would
prepare terms of reference for the benchmark and evaluation studies. CIDA,
represented by the Canadian High Commission in Dhaka, would employ a
qualified local consultant firm or university to conduct the studies under
the technical supervision of the Planning Cell of MOI. The Ministry's Plan-
ning Cell would also be responsible for identifying and disseminating the
lessons learned through the impact evaluation studies and for issuing the



-34-
reports. Finally, the Planning Cell would be responsible for preparation of
a project completion report within six months of the completion of the
project. Preferably the same consultant firm or university would be employed
to prepare the completion report and the impact evaluation studies. The
report would provide an overall assessment of project achievements (physical,
economic, social, and institutional), the extent to which its objectives were
found compatible with local needs and other development programs, and the
factors that facilitated or hindered project implementation.
4.21    Modernization of BWDB's Financial Management and Accounting Systems.
BWDB's Director of Accounts would be responsible for coordinating and super-
vising all project activities related to the modernization of BWDB's finan-
cial management and accounting system. He would assign two senior officers
of his staff to work full time with the team of consultants for the duration
of the program. CIDA would select and employ a qualified firm of consultants
to execute the program.
4.22    Operation and Maintenance Cost Cell.  BWDB's Chief Engineer, Monitor-
ing and Evaluation, would be responsible for supervising the work of the
consultant expert hired to prepare cost estimates. He would assign an Execu-
tive Engineer of his staff to work with the consultant during the first two
months of his assignment. Subsequently, BWDB would designate the necessary
staff for the O&M Cost Cell, as per agreed recommendations of the consultant,
to work with him during the last ten months of his assignment. CIDA would
select and employ a qualified consultant for this part of the project.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
A. Agricultural Production
5.01    General.  Crop production in Bangladesh is strictly controlled by the
water regime, i.e., rainfall distribution, flood and drainage conditions,
tidal inundation, and water availability in the dry season. Hence, produc-
tion is greatly affected by a combination of factors related to the water
regime: (a) early monsoon floods damage maturing crops in May/June; (b) deep
floods prevent farmers from adopting high-yielding crop varieties and
improved cultural practices; (c) poor drainage delays dry season planting;
and (d) lack of water for irrigation in the dry season or saline water intru-
sion prohibits or limits crop cultivation. Small scale works under the
project, designed to protect against flooding, improve drainage, and retain
water would minimize the above hazards and would encourage farmers to cul-
tivate their land more intensively.
5.02    Cropping Pattern.  Flood depth is the major factor determining crop-
ping patterns. Reduction of flood depth would make it possible to grow high
yielding crop varieties and increase cropping intensities. Table 5.1 sum-
marizes the cultivable areas by flood depths of four appraised SSFCDI sub-
projects (Singimari Beel, Laithi River, Srinagar-Mawa-Bhagyakul, and Polder
55/2A) before and after implementation of project works. Detailed informa-
tion on each subproject is given in Annex 10, Table 1.



-35-
Table 5.1: Cultivable Area of Four Appraised Subprojects by Flood Depth
Pre-Project              Post-Project
Flood Depth              Ha        %              Ha         %
Less than 0.3 m          509         5           4,930       47
0.3 - 1.0 m            5,616       54            2,980       29
1.0 - 1.6 m            1,503       14            1,695       16
More than 1.6 m        2,787        27             810        8
Total        10,415       100           10,415      100
The table shows that the shallow flooded area (less than 0.3 m) would
increase from 5% to 47% after completion of the project works, and the deeply
flooded area (more than 1.6 m) shrink from 27% to 8%.  With the change in
flood depths, more land would be suitable for growing transplanted and high
yielding varieties of rice (t.aus and t.aman) before or during the monsoon
season. In addition, improved drainage would make it possible to grow early
rabi crops, while retention of water in the channels would facilitate dry
season irrigation for expanding the cultivation of boro rice and wheat.
Retained water could also be used as a source of supplementary irrigation
during the late aman and early aus growing stages in periods of drought.
5.03    Crop Yields and Production.  Grain crop yields in subprojects with
flood control and drainage improvement components are expected to increase
moderately in the future with the project. Overall increases in crop produc-
tion would mainly result from shifts in cropping patterns toward
high-yielding varieties and increased Lropping intensities. Modest increases
in application levels of fertilizers and pesticides are projected for tran-
splanted rice and wheat. Table 5.2 summarizes present (P) and future with
project (W) cropping intensities and the produccion of rice and wheat for all
six appraised subprojects. It has been assumed in the analysis that present
and future without project conditions would be the same. Details on crop
areas, yields, and production of each appraised subproject are given in Annex
10, Tables 2 to 7.



-36-
Table 5.2: Cropping Intensities and Grain Production of Six Appraised
Subprojects
I      II      III      IV       V     VI a/   Total
Areas, ha
Gross Area             1,600   2,000   3,178   7,166   2,000   310    16,254
Net Cultivable Area   1,240   1,210   2,295   5,670        980   270    11,665
Cropping Intensityt X
P          164      100     119      123     200   165
w          178      124     142      151     200   200
Increment            14      24      23       28       0   35
Crop Production, m ton
Rice         P         3,600   2,900   4,968   8,309  6,588  1,875    28,240
v        4,703   4,889   8,514  13,031  8,406  2,565    42,108
Wheat        P           150      --      184     --      200     --       534
v          564       --     244     --      --      --        808
Total        P         3,750   2,900   5,052   8,309  6,788  1,875    28,774
V        5,267   4,889   8,758  13,031  8,406  2,565    42,916
Increment         1,517   1,989   3,706   4,722  1,618    690    14,142
a/  I Singimari Beel; II Laithi River; III Srinagar-Mawa-Bhagyakul;
Polder 55/2A; V Chandpur Gravity Irrigation Extension Project (CIP);
VI Harbang Chara.
Projected increases of cropping intensity range from 14% to 35% for the six
appraised subprojects. On the average, yields of paddy and wheat would
increase from about 2.5 m ton to about 3.7 m ton per cultivable ha as a
result of project investments. On the basis of the projections fot the six
appraised fully planned schemes and the findings of the evaluation studies of
nine appurtenant structures schemes (completed under the First SSDFC
Project), it is estimated that the total incremental grain production for the
SSFCDI pavt of the project would be about 160,000 m ton (about 45,000 m ton
in the fully planned and about 115,000 m ton in the appurtenant structures
subprojects).
B. Marketing and Prices
5.04    Marketing.  Because foodgrain production in Bangladesh still falls
10% to 15X short of domestic requirements, the country has had to import an
average of about 1.75 million m ton annually over the past five years.
Therefore, marketing of the project's incremental paddy and wheat production



-37-
is not expected to pose a problem. Much of the increase is likely to be
absorbed within the producing areas. Surpluses would be marketed through the
traditional system, which is well developed. Farmers could also use GOB's
procurement system. However, because GOB procurement prices tend to be lower
than open market prices, only a small share of farmers marketable paddy and
wheat surplus passes through GOB procurement agencies. The relatively small
additional output of other crops would be absorbed locally without dif-
ficulty.
5.05    Prices.  Crop prices on the open market in Bangladesh are largely
determined by the supply situation and vary greatly between locations and
seasons, and between years. In order to stimulate production, GOB guarantees
support prices for paddy, wheat, and sugarcane. The guaranteed prices are
based on the production cost plus an allowance of 20Z of the production cost
for farmers' return to management and nominal transport charges. The guaran-
teed prices protect the farmers from sharp falls in open market prices, but
in general market prices exceed the guaranteed prices. Major input prices,
particularly those of fertilizer and irrigation equipment, are subsidized,
although in recent years the GOB's policy has been to reduce subsidies*
During the early 1970s, GOB subsidies on fertilizers reached about 70Z of the
efficiency price. In FY87 the GOB's subsidy on TSP and MP fertilizer had
declined to about 13X and 61, respectively, while the market price for urea
exceeded the efficiency price by about 9%. GOB subsidies on sales of irriga-
tion equipment are also declining and in FY87 were about 50% for LLPs, 20%
for DTWs, and 14% for STWs.
C. Farm Budgets
5.06    Farm budgets were prepared for each of the six appraised fully
planned subprojects under present and future with project conditions. Models
were based on owner-operated one-hectare farms as about 801 of the rural
households operate farms about that size or less. Estimated average sub-
project cropping patterns and crop yields have been used in the analysis of
the one-ha farm models. A summary of present, future, and incremental farm
incomes in the six appraised subprojects is given in Table 5.3. Detailed
farm budgets for each of the six appraised subprojects are given in Annex 10,
Tables 8 to 13.



-38-
Table 5.3: Summary of Farm Incomes of One-ha Farms a/
(Tk)
Without     With        Increment
Subproject      Type      Project                   Tk     %
1.  Singimari Beel   D,I       16,055      22,836      6,781    42
2.  Laithi River      FC,D,I   10,852      20,370      9,518    88
3. Srinagar-Mawa-
Bhagyakul       FC,D,I    9,777       16,243      6,466    66
4.  Polder 55/2A      FC,D,SC   7,018       11,649     4,631    66
5. CII Gravity          I       34,264     42,521      8,257    24
6.  Harbang Chara       I      35,339      48,698    13,359    38
a/ Gross production value minus cash production cost.
The four flood control and drainage improvement subprojects would result in
incremental farm incomes ranging from 42% to 88%. The two irrigation sub-
projects show somewhat lower projected increases of farm incomes: 24% for
CIP Extension and 38% for Harbang Chara. Income levels in both subprojects
are already relatively high and would increase further because existing
irrigation facilities would be improved under the project. Averrge incremen-
tal incomes in the appurtenant structures subprojects, expressed on a per ha
basis, are likely to be lower than in the fully planned subprojects because
part of the benefits would already have been realized after the construction
of earthworks under FFW. For the SSFCDI part of the project as a whole,
average incremental incomes of all beneficiaries (owner-operators, sharecrop-
pers, and landless laborers) are expected to increase by about 15% - 20%.
The distribution pattern of additional incomes, resulting from increased crop
production, between owner-operators, tenants, and landless laborers, would
not differ substantially from present incomes. About 27% of all rural
households in Bangladesh are landless, while another 18% of the households
owns less than 0.2 ha. About 80% of the land is cultivated by the owners,
about 15% by tenants, and about 5% by owner-cum-tenants. Tenancy agreements
are usually based on sharecropping for one crop season only, with the land-
owner taking 50% of the crop and the tenant providing all inputs. The
owner-operators and landlords would receive larger absolute gains from the
project investments than would sharecroppers and landless laborers. However,
sharecroppers and landless laborers would, in proportion to current income,
gain at least as much as owner-operators and landlords.
D. Cost Recovery
5.07    Irrigation.  In its efforts to initiate a viable system of cost
recovery for BWDB's projects, GOB gives priority to the recovery of opera-
tions and maintenance costs of irrigation schemes because: (a) costs and
benefits of irrigation facilities are generally much larger on a per ha basis
than those of flood control and drainage works; (b) irrigation benefits can
more readily be quantified; and (c) beneficiaries of irrigation are generally
in a better financial position to contribute towards the schemes' operation
and maintenance costs. IDA supports GOB's approach. Against this back-
ground, Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement of May 18, 1984, for



-39-
the BWDB Small Schemes Project (Credit 1467-BD) required GOB to: (a)
gradually set water rates at levels sufficient to enable BWDB to recover from
the beneficiaries of its gravity irrigation schemes increased portions of the
cost of their O&M; and (b) cause BWDB to improve its collection procedures
with a view to reaching full O&M cost recovery in the projects by July 1,
1990. On the basis of the provisions of the Bangladesh Water Rate Ordinance
of 1983, GOB had decided in 1984 to levy water rates in 12 BWDB irrigation
projects. Specific water rates for each project and for each of the three
crop seasons, based on estimated O&M costs of the projects, were notified by
MOI on June 6, 1984. Meanwhile, the Bangladesh Irrigation Water Rates Rules
of 1984 had designated BWDB as the authority responsible for the assessment
and collection of water rates. The Rules also authorized BWDB to ask per-
sons, or groups of persons, other than BWDB employees to collect water rates,
if BWDB considered this expedient and after having obtained prior approval
from GOB. Where possible, BWDB arranged to have the Krishi Samabaya Samities
(KSS; village cooperative societies) collect the water rates.
5.08    For the first year (FY85) water rate assessments were made for about
100,000 ha, which was equivalent to about 55% of the area reported to have
been irrigated through public irrigation systems in that year. The balance
of the irrigated area, which included three entire schemes, could not be
assessed because of the shortage of BWDB staff (patwaris). After FY85 the
areas assessed have been much smaller. Most of the schemes currently have a
backlog of assessments going back two years or more. The total amount
assessed for FY85 was about Tk 34 million (about US$1.1 million) of which
only about Tk 1.5 million (about US$50,000), or about 4% of the assessed
amount, has actually been collected. Thus far, collections for subsequent
years have been negligible.
5.09    There are several reasons for BWDB's disappointing performance in
collecting water rates. As indicated above, the shortage of BWDB assessment
and collection staff is a major constraint.  For several years BWDB has not
been authorized by COB to recruit additional staff. However, existing staff
could be used more efficiently if assessment procedures were simplified.
Substituting annual water rates for the current seasonal rates would substan-
tially reduce the amount of work involved in the assessments; GOB is at
present considering this option. There are almost certainly other ways to
simplify current procedures for assessment and also for collection of water
rates. BWDB's attempts to involve the KSS cooperatives in the collection of
water rates have been met with mixed results. Incentives for cooperative to
participate in the collection would need to be improved and other approaches
could have to be tried out in some of the projects. Finally, the collection
of water rates is hindered by the fact that the supply of irrigation water in
many of the projects concerned is insufficient or irregular. That means the
reliability of water supply in those schemes would first have to be improved
before water rates could be collected more effectively. Efforts to collect
water rates should therefore be limited initially to projects where current
levels of services are adequate. At the same time plans should be developed
to improve and upgrade irrigation services in deficient projects.
5.10    While full O&M cost recovery can evidently not be achieved by July 1,
1990, GOB remains firmly committed to the goal of improving cost recovery in



-40-
BWDB's irrigation schemes. Assurances were obtained from GOB during nego-
tiations that (a) water rates in selected BWDB irrigation projects coverin
about 100,000 ha would be adjusted periodically to enable BWDB to recover
increasing portions of the cost of O&M as follows: 33X of cost by June 30,
1991, 661 by June 30, 1993 and 100% by June 30, 1995; (b) collection proce-
dures would be improved in accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA; and
NO) proposals to improve irrigation services in the other BWDB irrigation
projects would be submitted to IDA for comments by June 30, 1988.
5.11    Flood Control and Drainage   Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of
flood control and drainage works is a complex issue. GOB's ability to impose
charges is limited by a number of practical considerations. Firstly, flood
protection in Bangladesh, as in many countries is considered a social service
and no charges have been traditionally collected by GOB for this type of
works. Secondly, benefits from flood control and drainage works vary from
one plot to another, depending on their location, land level and soil
quality. While it would be possible to determine aggregate benefits of the
works (or average per ha benefits) it would be very difficult to design and
implement a cost recovery scheme geared to individual farmers' ability to
pay. It is therefore GOB's view, accepted by IDA, that cost recovery on such
projects is not feasible at this stage. Eventually some cost recovery may be
attempted through the adoption of a system of land taxes based on potential
production. IDA intends to explore the prospects for such a system with GOB
in the framework of future lending operations.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01    The primary benefit of the SSFCDI part of the project would be
increased crop production. As noted in paragraph 5.03, annual incremental
production on about 50,000 ha in fully planned schemes and about 200,000 ha
under appurtenant structures projects would be roughly 160,000 m ton, valued
at about US$28.0 million at farmgate. The income from that production would
directly benefit about 1.3 million people, including sharecroppers, landless
laborers, and landowners, in about 220,000 families. Based on income surveys
conducted in the six appraised fully planned schemes, the median income per
capita of the beneficiaries is less than half of the estimated US$127 annual
per capita poverty income threshold for rural areas (the income required to
purchase a calorically adequate diet). The project would not raise the
poorest beneficiaries above the poverty threshold, but would lift them above
the marginal level at which they now live. The distribution of benefits
would depend on land tenure, which itself would be almost unaffected by the
project (see also para 5.06). The increase in labor demand for on-farm
activities, which affects the landless most, would be about 4.6 million
man-days per year. The project would also have a positive impact on land
transportation, especially during the flood season, by virtue of the embank-
ments to be constructed.



-41-
S. Economic Justification
6.02    The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the six appraised
fully planned SSFCDI subprojects ranges from 19% to 40% and averages 31%.
The nine unappraised fully planned subprojects are expected to produce com-
parable ERRs and ratios of net present value to investment. The
approximately 200 appurtenant structures subprojects are essentially similar
to those constructed under the First SSDFC Project (Cr. 955-BD). Based on
the investment cost breakdown of the proposed project, the return in paddy
terms should be comparable. A recently completed evaluation of eight com-
pleted appurtenant structures subprojects under that project showed ERRs
ranging from 20% to 50%, with a mean of 37%. Appurtenant structures sub-
projects tend to have higher ERRs than fully planned schemes because they
require much less construction of earthworks (these being mostly pre-existing
"sunk" investment costs), yet provide similar benefits compared to the fully
planned schemes. For the fifteen fully planned subprojects, the annual net
incremental benefit at full development would be about US$3.7 million. The
net present value of all fifteen fully planned subprojects, discounted at 12%
(the estimated opportunity cost of capital), is about US$11.4 million in
constant 1987 terms. Considering the performance of past appurtenant struc-
tures subprojects it is conservatively estimated that the appurtenant struc-
tures subprojects under the project would yield annual net incremental
benefits and net present values proportional (compared to investment costs)
to those of the fully planned subprojects, and an overall ERR that is equally
high. Under this assumption, the total annual net incremental benefit at
full development and net present value of the SSFCDI part of the project
would be US$10.4 million and US$32.2 million, respectively, and the overall
ERR would be 31%. The main assumptions underlying the economic analysis of
the fully planned subprojects are as follows:
(a) Project Execution. Preconstruction activities would begin in FY88.
Construction would begin in FY89 and be completed in FY93. The
schedule for completion of various project components is shown in
Annex 6. The period of analysis used in ERR calculations is 25
years.
(b) Investment Cost. Only the costs directly associated with the fully
planned subprojects were counted. Of these, transfer payments (land
acquisition, taxes and duties) and price contingencies were excluded.
Local costs were further adjusted by the standard conversion factor
of 0.8.
(c) Operation and Maintenance. Costs per ha are estimated at Tk 860 per
year in financial terms. To convert this to economic values the
labor component, estimated at 60%, was adjusted by the labor conver-
sion factor of 75%. The balance was adjusted by the standard conver-
sion factor.
(d) Agricultural Development. Among the key variables affecting project
viability are crop yields, cropping patterns, and cropping intensity.
Projections of these factors are discussed in Chapter V and detailed
in Annex 10 along with farm models. The analysis assumes that



-42-
project-induced changes in these factors would take about three years
from the time of completion of project works.
(e) Input-Output Prices. The Bank's February 1987 price projections were
used wherever applicable for traded goods; for other goods, domestic
financial prices were converted to economic prices using the standard
conversion factor and specific conversion factors. The financial and
economic prices used are summarized in Annex 11. Averages of
projected prices over the period of analysis were used for each good.
6.03    The economic costs and benefits of flood rehabilitation works have
not been analyzed. Beyond any doubt the restoration of flood damaged works
has one of the highest priorities for expenditures in Bangladesh at this
time. The proposed IDA financing would only meet the cost of repair of
damages and the required restoration work would have to be carried out at the
expense of other development activities. The susceptibility of Bangladesh to
flooding brings into question whether enough is being done to improve protec-
tion and thus to minimize the risk of future losses and the need to restore
and rehabilitate damaged infrastructure. The mathematical modelling study of
river sections protected by the Brahmaputra Right Embankment, to be financed
under this project, should provide a basis for designing more effective
protection works along main rivers within Bangladesh territory. Longer term
and lasting solutions to reduce damage from flooding can only be explored and
pursued in consultation with the upper-riparian countries.
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
6.04    To test the sensitivity of the ERR to possible adverse changes in key
variables, several tests were conducted. Although the analysis covers only
the six appraised fully planned subprojects, as noted above, they are repre-
sentative of the entire SSFCDI part of the project. Table 6.1 shows the
percentage change from the appraisal values required in each of these vari-
ables to reduce the ERR to 12% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital).
The tests show that very large adverse changes would be necessary to imperil
the project's economic viability.
Table 6.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value
Variable Test                        (percentage change)
Investment Costs Rise                        +198
Incremental Crop Revenue Fall                  -44
Incremental Farm Input Costs Rise             +130
Incremental Crop Net Revenue Fall              -66
Incremental Benefits Lag (in years)             10
6.05    Risks.  Delays in implementation of the SSFCDI part of the project
due to delays in pre-construction activities is a risk facing the project.
However, the project comprises a large number of small subprojects and even-
tual delays are likely to affect only a limited number of subprojects.
Arrangements have been incorporated in the project design to minimize the



-43-
risk of delays. Inadequate O&M of subproject facilities is another risk. In
order to reduce this risk, arrangements have been made to involve the
beneficiaries and representatives of local government authorities in all
stages of subproject planning and implementation. In addition, the cost of
O&M of completed small subprojects would be financed under the project for a
period of two years. Meanwhile, O&M problems in BWDB's operational projects
are specifically being addressed in the pilot O&M component of the BWDB Small
Schemes Project (Credit 1467-BD) and in the ongoing feasibility studies for
the proposed BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project.
6.06    The implementation of Flood Rehabilitation Works may also be delayed
to institutional constraints. However, the works to be undertaken are rela-
tively simple and are well within the capacity of BWDB. Because of the
urgent nature of the works, individual rehabilitation schemes could not be
appraised in accordance with the usual standards; however, only schemes which
meet agreed criteria (Annex 2) would be accepted for financing. Consultants
would be employed to assist BWDB in reviewing the proposed works, which are
scattered throughout the country, against the agreed criteria and in design-
ing and supervising the construction of the works.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    Conditions of Effectiveness.  Conditions of effectiveness for the
IDA Credit would include:
(a) appointment of consultants to assist BWDB with the implementation
of the SSFCDI part of the project (para 2.12);
(b) appointment of consultants to assist BWDB with the design and
monitoring of construction work for flood rehabilitation (para 2.18);
(c) signing of the co-financing agreement between GOB and CIDA (para
3.03); and
(d) approval of the Project Proforma by GOB (para 3.03).
7.02    Agreements Reached.  The following assurances were obtained from GOB
during negotiations:
(a) BWDB would select subprojects and rehabilitation works according to
agreed criteria (paras 2.09, 2.17 and Annex 2);
(b) consultants would be appointed by June 30, 1988 to undertake bench-
mark and evaluation studies (para 2.14);
(c) (i) consultants would be appointed by June 30, 1988 to assist BWDB
in modernizing its financial management and accounting systems, (ii)
the draft plan of action to be formulated by the consultants during
the first phase of their assignment would be submitted to IDA for
comments by December 31, 1988; and (iii) the plan of action as agreed
between GOB and IDA would be implemented thereafter (para 2.16);



-44-
(d) a consultant with expertise in cost estimating would be appointed by
June 30, 1988 to assist BWDB in establishing an O&M Cost Cell (para
2.16);
(e) consultants would be appointed by October 31, 1988 to undertake a
mathematical modelling study of river sections protected by the
existing Brahmaputra Right Embankment (para 2.18);
(f) (i) land acquisition applications would be processed and adequate
funding allocated at least nine months before construction of the
works, and (ii) possession of the land would be transferred to BWDB
at least one month before construction would start (para 2.24);
(g) a Subproject Committee would be established at the planning stage of
each subproject (para 4.04);
(h) a construction manual for the project would be submitted to IDA for
review before June 30, 1988 (para 4.10);
(i) forty sub-assistant engineers would be assigned to the subproject
sites from the FY89 construction season until completion of construc-
tion work (para 4.10);
(j) the finalized annual work program would be submitted to IDA for
review by July 31 of each year of project implementation (para 4.11);
(k) an operational plan would be prepared by BWDB during the engineering
phase and a detailed O&M manual would be finalized within two years
after completion of construction of each subproject (para 4.14); and
(1) (i) water rates in selected BWDB irrigation projects covering about
100,000 ha would be adjusted periodically to enable BWDB to recover
increasing portions of the cost of O&M as follows: 33% of cost by
June 30, 1991; 66% by June 30, 1993 and 100% by June 30, 1995; (ii)
collection procedures would be improved in accordance with a program
satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) proposals to improve irrigation serv-
ices in the other BWDB irrigation projects would be submitted to IDA
for comments by June 30, 1988.
7.03    With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 61.7 million (US$81.5 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. The Borrower would be the
Government of the Peoples's Republic of Bangladesh.



-45-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Food-For-Work Programme
1.      Background and Objectives. The National Food-For-Work Programme for
Water and Land Development (FFW) was started in 1975 in the wake of the
famine situation which had arisen a year earlier. The original purpose of FFW
was to provide relief by employing the unemployed and underemployed in
activities of economic value. An increasing number of landless people in
Bangladesh are dependent on casual wage employment for their livelihood.
These people experience particular hardship in the periods mid-September to
mid-November and January/February when agricultural employment opportunities
are fewest. FFW provides additional employment opportunities through the
construction and repair of earthwork structures. These include roads to
improve access, embankments to provide protection against floods, and canals
and channels to facilitate drainage and irrigation. Under the prevailing
heavy rainfall conditions regular rehabilitation and reconstruction of these
structures are required.
2.     Financing.  During the last decade the international donor community
has provided substantial support to FF1. The World Food Programme (WFP) has
made donations to FFW since its inception in 1975 and USAID has supported
the programme since 1976. Donations of wheat for use in FFW schemes have
also been made by Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Australia, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the EEC. The size of FFW has increased
from about 55,000 m ton of wheat in FY76 to about 460,000 m ton in 1986/87,
which had in the latter year a value of about US$70 million, cif Chittagong,
and created about 90 million man-days of employment during the dry season
months from December through April. WFP assists the Government in the
allocation of resources, programme administration, and monitoring of its own
donations (about 158,000 m ton wheat in FY87) and also those made by
Australia, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the EEC (about
120,000 m ton). CARE administers the USAID donations of about 120,000 m ton
annually. FFW started as a relief operation, but over the years its main
emphasis has shifted toward development. The programme is, however, designed
to be expandable in times of stress brought about by natural disasters such
as droughts, floods, or cyclones. For example, the FY85 programme was
expanded to about 570,000 m ton wheat following the unusually heavy floods of
1984.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.      Organizational Arrangements.  At the policy making level, the Minis-
try of Relief and Rehabilitation has overall responsibility for coordinating
a wide range of relief activities, including FFW. Within the Ministry, the
Directorate of Relief and Rehabilitation is responsible for operational
coordination and implementation. Each year national allocations of wheat are
made for all Upazilas on the basis of their population, relative level of
distress and previous year's performance. About 20% of the wheat supplied by
WFP and all contributions made by the other donors are used for the implemen-
tation of Local Initiative Schemes, mostly for road construction. At the
Upazila level, Project Implementation Officers are responsible for the
preparation and submission of the schemes and for ensuring their proper
execution. Selected schemes must be part of an apprrved Upazila Development
Plan. About 80% of the wheat supplied by WFP is used by BWDB for construc-
tion, rehabilitation, and repair of flood protection embankments and for
excavation or re-excavation of canals and channels. BWDB's Executive
Engineers are responsible for the selection and preparation of FFW schemes,
and for their proper execution. At BWDB headquarters the Chief Engineer,
FFW, directs the implementation of the programme, assisted by an advisor
financed under a UNDP technical assistance project. The selected schemes
must be part of approved BWDB projects, either completed or ongoing. Since
funding under BWDB's Revenue Budget is consistently falling short of require-
ments, BWDB has been using up to 90% of its allocation under FFW for
rehabilitation, repair, and maintenance of earthwork structures in completed
projects.
4.      Por each FFW scheme, whether Local Initiative or BWDB, a Project
Implementation Committee of five to seven members must be formed at Union
level. The Chairman and members of the Committee are individually and col-
lectively responsible for the execution of each scheme, including recruitment
and supervision of laborers; taking work measurements; keeping accounts and
records; transport, storage, and distribution of wheat to the laborers, etc.
The minimum FFW wage rate has been fixed at 2.8 kg wheat per 70 cu ft
earthwork. Depending on soil conditions and other work factors, actual wages
may exceed the minimum rate. A study conducted in FY82 showed that the
average output per worker was about 115 cu feet earth per day, for which 5.5
kg wheat was to be paid to the workers.
5.      BWDB's Performance.  Planned and actual work undertaken by BWDB under
FFW during recent years is reflected in Table 1.



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 1: FPW Programme Implemented by BWDB
Planned                        Actual
Wheat      Number of          Wheat       Number of
Year            (m ton)       schemes          (m ton)       schemes
1980/81           114,754         383           68,732          334
1981/82           127,144         496           82,207          451
1982/83           114,036         346           78,404          327
1983/84           104,771         373           83,60S          368
1984/85           100,052         427           92,460          419
1985/86           106,683         335           92,482(est)    333
1986/87           104,094         406           80,000(est)    389
6.      Expansion 6.  WFP's commitments for FFW are made through so-called
Expansions which usually cover a period of three years. The ongoing Expan-
sion 5 covers the period July 1985-June 1988. Proposals for the three year
period July 1988-June 1990 were appraised by a WFP mission in March 1987.
The commitment proposed for 1988-90 is about 620,000 m ton wheat, repre-
senting an average annual increase of about 5%. Of the proposed total com-
mitment, about 335,000 m ton (49%) would be allocated to BWDB and 90,000 m
ton (15%) to Local Initiative Schemes. The proposed allocations to BWDB are
increasing and those to Local Initiative Schemes decreasing because of
expected larger allocations by other donors to the latter type cf schemes.
Separate allocations in Expansion 6 are proposed for post-emergency
rehabilitation following natural disasters (6%); post-monsoon rehabilitation
(7%), pilot schemes, among others, for excavation of fish tanks (3%); and
cofinancing with other agencies, including the World Bank (3%). The latter
provision was made for earthwork structures in new BWDB-executed projects,
for example, IDA's BWDB Small Schemes Project (Credit 1467-BD) and the
present Second SSFCDI Project. Finally, about 10% of the proposed commm,it-
ment for Expansion 6 would be used to cover the cost of internal transport,
storage, and handling of wheat. The proposed commitment is expected to be
submitted for approval by WPP in two tranches, covering the first year and
the second and third years, respectively.
7.      Problems and Prospects.  On the whole, FFW has been successful
despite a number of weaknesses in the programme. Planning of schemes needs
to be strengthened, particularly at the Upazila level, to ensure that the
schemes have a worthwhile developmental impact. Although the size of FFW has
increased rapidly, there has been no commensurate rise in Government manpower
inputs supporting the programme. For BWDB's FFW schemes, more attention has
to be given to proper design of the earthworks. Underpayment of FFW laborers
was a serious problems until a few years ago. Recent increases in rural wage
rates and more rigorous monitoring have reduced the problem, but overreport-
ing of work achieved is still possible. Late start-up of works during the
dry season was another serious problem in the early years. The need for
early implementation has consistently been emphasized, with some measure of
success. Earthwork structures for roads need to be complemented by the
construction of bridges and culverts. USAID, WPP, and some of the other
donors have authorized the sale of relatively small quantities of wheat to



-48-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
generate cash funds for this purpose.  A similar purpose is served by IDA-
and CIDA-financed appurtenant structures schemes, including the First SSDFC
Project and the proposed Second SSFCDI Project.  There is also a need to
diversify FPW activities since there is little scope for expanding Local
Initiative Schemes for road construction without sacrificing minimum quality
standards. Possibilities are being explored for expanding FFW works into
other fields, including forestry, fisheries, ground raising for markets and
schools, etc. The main criteria for new fields of activity are: (i) equi-
table distribution of benefits; (ii) large-scale employment generation; and
(iii) reasonable prospects for accountability. WFP has established an F9W
planning unit in Dhaka which will, among other things, devise new work
programmes for FFW.



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANCLADESH
SECOND SKALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINACE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selection of Project Works
SSFCDI Works
To qualify for project finance, subprojects would have to meet the
criteria outlined below. These criteria would ensure the technical,
economic, and financial viability of the subprojects. Included in the
criteria would be requirements that subprojects would:
For all Subprojects
(a) be the subject of an up-to-date appraisal by BDB and its consult-
ants, including an evaluation of hydrology, soils, crops, fisheries,
and transport requirements of the subprojects, and an assessment of
the impact the subprojects are likely to have on adjacent areas; for
subprojects other than repairs and rehabilitation works, an economic
analysis would be made and their economic rate of return would be at
least 15Z on project investments (excluding sunk costs);
(b) be discussed during preparation with farmers, local authorities, and
representatives of the technical departments concerned, particularly
agriculture and fisheries; farmers should be willing to execute
on-farm developments below the eight-ha farm turnouts at their cost
and to contribute to the operation and maintenance of the subproject
upon its completion;
(c) be completed before June 30, 1993;
(d) be operated and maintained under arrangements satisfactory to IDA;
For Appurtenant Structures Subprojects Only
(e) cost not more than US$375 per ha (in 1987 prices);
(f) have been designed originally by BDB and, except for repair and
rehabilitation works, constructed under the Food-for-Work Programme;
(g) have a base cost not to exceed US$400,000;



-50-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(h) be completed within two construction seasons;
For Fully Planned Subprojects Only
(i) cost not more than US$500 per ha in (1987 prices) for flood control
and drainage works; US$2,000 per ha for irrigation works, including
on-farm distribution system to eight-ha farm turnouts; and US$2,500
per ha for subproject combining flood control, drainage, and irriga-
tion works;
(j) have a gross protected area not to exceed 7,500 ha (flood control and
drainage schemes) and a net irrigated area not to exceed 1,000 ha
(irrigation schemes);
(k) have a base cost not to exceed US$1.5 million; and
(1) be completed within three construction seasons.
Exceptions to the above criteria for specific subprojects would require prior
approval by MOI and IDA.
Flood Rehabilitation Works
To qualify for project finance, the works would be selected in
accordance with the criteria set out below:
(m) all rehabilitation works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 or more would require prior review and approval by IDA of
scope and expenditures of such works;
(n) rehabilitation works not covered under (m) would not require prior
approval by IDA; however damages to be repaired must have resulted
from the 1987 floods or could be other damages which, if not
repaired, would vitiate or seriously diminish the effectiveness of
other repair works executed under the project; and
(o) no other sources of finances are available.



BANGLADESh
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAtNAGE AND IRRIGATJON PROJECT
Appraised Subprolects Fully Planned
Benefittod Area. Ha
Total                          Primary Gravity    Senefi-          Estimated
Area.Ha                  FC.D   Gravity Irrig.         on,ies  NaeO.
Culti- FC           Sal-  Irrig.  Distri-  popu-    Farm               S
SubproJect                  Gross  vable  & D    D    nity   SuDDIY  bution  latSon  Families  Tk U    U           ProDosed Worka
1. Singimari Seel Drainage; 1800   1240    -   1600       -      250      -     9900      1600    20.0   0.6   Re-excavation drainage
Nilpamari Upazila in                                                                                         canat 9 ki; embank. re-
Nilphamari District                                                                                          seCtioning t3 keg major
drainage reg. I no; rehab.
of reg. 2 no.s. and 29
minor new structures
2. Laithi River Flood        2000   1210  2000    -        -     670      -     7300      1300    12.4   0.4   Re-excavation of river
Control and Drainage;                                                                                        12 km; major reg. I no.;
Pnaluka Up8aza In                                                                                            improvemnts to water
Mymensingh District                                                                                          retaining structures.
3. Harbang Chara Irrigation; 310    270                -          -      270    150O       225     6.6   0.3   Major diversion weir              F
Chakaria Upazile in                                                                                          1 no.; mian canal struc-
Cox's Bazaar District                                                                                        tures 40 nos.1 main canal
earthwork S.1 km; distrib.
system to 270 ha.
4. Srinagar-Mawa-Bhagyakul  3178   2295  2295    -         -     400       -   21500      3700    21.0   0.7   Embank. re--ctioning 30 ti;
Flood Control, Orainage                                                                                      drainage cnal -roexcavation
and Irrigation;                                                                                              20 kms mjor rag. S nos.s
Srinagar and Lauhgang                                                                                        minor structures 4 nos. and
Upaisla in Munshigang                                                                                        canal lining.
District
5. Polder 55t2a Flood Cont- 7166   5670                 7186      -        -   35200      5400    42.7   1.4   Now embank. 21 km; embank.
role and Drainage;                                                                                           resectioning 14 tm; drainage
Pathuakhal i  Bauphal.                                                                                       canal re-excavotion; closures
Dashununa and Goalchipa                                                                                      7 nos.; cross dam  2 nos.%
Upazilas in Patuakhali                                                                                       major re. 6 nos: sluices
District
I no.; bridgos 7 noa.
6. Chandpur Irrigation       2000    980    -      -      -              9 890   13200    2000     9.6   0.3   New embank. 11 km-. embank.
Ext.; Faridgang and Chand-                                                                                   resectioning 10 im; ovrflot wC
Pur Upazilas In Chandpur                                                                                     control structures 5 nos.;
District                                                                                                     turnouts 46- nos .  ovirflow
structures 9 nos.;            F ta
Total        16254  11865  4295s  1IW   7166   1320       1250  88660    14425   t14.3   3.7



BANGLADESII
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
tdontitiod Suborolecte - Fully Planned
Senefitted               CostO
Area (HA)       People/        Cost      "a       Proposad
Moem                                 Tim       GrosWlNot         Fgrms         Tk I     USS        Works
DinaJour Division
1.  Raheatpur Drainage 6                 O,FC,I      2100t 1660    12500124S0       12.5      171     lv 3 a4' Reg.
Flood Control Project                                                                             4v SIN6, Reg.
Upeazilas-Haripur S                                                                               WVS 6 Earthuorks
Thakurgeon
2.  Atral-lakra                          FC.D.I      5180/3640     16000/           19.50      173     Chech Structure 5
Upaila - Chirir Sander                                                                            3a3l Outlet
3v S'x6
lv 5'a6* 
lv 3x4'                           Lo
2-lv 3s3
6 Pipe Inlet/Outltt
6 Round Culverts
Eebankaent-5 km
Panchagar Division
3.  Shaheber Sundh                           1        607/526        1200/250        4.5       105    4-WRS cum-bridge
Irrigation Sche
Up-az a- Soda
Tangail Division
4.  Regulator and WRS over              DOFC,t       6500/4463     4S00019000       37.0      277      Sv-5'a6' Reg.
Goaltar Khal                                                                                      3 WRS cum-bridge
Upazila - Shakhlpur                                                                               Earthwork
5.  Srldge-cuu-Reguletor                     1        700/500       8000/1000        3.3      220     Bv Uridge-cum-
over Karnajhora River                                                                             Regulator
Upazita - Sr*ebordf
go
*0" 
* '



eeefittstedb
Area (HA)         epII         Cost               Prep._
Ohich Division
6.  Goalior Saldah                       O.FC.I      2025JS/00      750011500        e.s      180     2-0eoulators
Lebondah Project
Upezi la-Kalairkair
and Joydebpur
Moulvi  faar Division I-
7.  Sh-rtfpur flood                       0,FC       130011175          N.A.         4.5      128     Drairage Sluice
Protection Scheme
Upaasil - Kuloure
Syihet Division
S.  Danianuktapur ftor                    D,FC       7500/4050          N.A.        26.0      2t4     3-Drainage
and Karbar Haor Sche                                                                              Sluice 8 WRS
Upaa1ia - BalangonJ                                                                               5-Pipe Sluice&
9.  Naluac Haor                           D.FC       9840/60S0     26500/5300       25.0      137     3v 6a16' Open Reg.               V
Upoazio-Jagunathpur                                                                               2v 6'xI6' Open Reg. 
IV 8'"|6'
3' 0 Pipe Outlet
Closure - 6 No&.
Ahal Excav. 13 km
Chittagong DOivilon I
10. Dohaaa1r-Keranthat Sche^             D fC.I    485B/3240       2000/4000       13.0      134     3 Regulators
Upazila - Satkenl-
Lakohelaur Divitlon
It. Eat. of Polder 59/2                  D.FC.SC    485844S3      15000/2500      22.5       I"1     3 Surface Sluice
Upaszia-Rangat1                                                                                   4 Drainage Sluice
farIduur Division
12. Regulator over                       D.FC.I     51004050       250/SO000        15.0      125     2v Sx6  Reg.
Mohespur Khal                                                                                     3v Wall Reg.
Upeaila fiashiani                                                                                 3-Sv 6ao6 Reg.
E"ankuwnt - 0 km
Raibari Division
13. Horal River Subproject                FC.I      7000/4500      4d320/5760       38.0       74     4v 5iX6' Reg,
Upealla - Pangss *  Raibari                                                                       2 Gated Weir.
SOlE
.mE
*  'r



Benofitted                Cost/
Area (HA)       People/        Cost       Ha       Proposed
Name                                   Type     Gross/Not         Faros         Tk U      US$        Works
Sarguna Division
14. Polder 41/6B                          O,FC.SC    7500/53B0      52730/9560       32.5        20      12 Sluices
Upaz1ia - Oarguna                                                                                   B Culverts & Bridges
Bagerhat Division
15. Gabkhali Khal                           D.FC      4450/3560     9000/1800         12.0      112      1-7v 5'X6' Res.
Rangour Division                                                                                         Pod. Bridge 6 Hos.
16. Ahhira Drainage                        D0.1       13000/4050    26000/4000        11.5       95     2 Bridge-cum-
Irrig. SCheme                                                                                       Regulators
Upazi a-Mithapukur
Comilla Division
17. Kankri Rivec DraInage                   0.1       4800/2000      24000/3500       23.5      390     Regulator & WRS
and Irrigation Scheme
Upazil# - Chowddegrom
"I
*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oiAa%
OA 0
O I 



BANGLADESH
SECOND SKALL- SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Identified SubproJects - Appurtenant Structures
WFP no.                Area (ha)       Benefited    Cost   Cost/ha  ERR
Name                             and year       Type      Gross/net    people/farms  (Tk M)   (US$)   (Z)  Proposed works
DinaJpur Division
Bahagali-Gorla Beel Sch.        111383        D,I        345/350       5,684/980      2.0      187      -  Rehabilitation of 2 regulators
Upazila-Saidpur
Panchanala Koya 8eel Scb.        11285        D,}      2,400/2,080   39,440/6,850    6.6        88      -  5 rehabilltations and I new regulator
Upazila-Saidpur
Ratuatpur drainage flood        1978/79      D,FC,I   2,100/1,560   12,5000/2,450   6.0         89      -  New regulator
control project
Upasila-Earipur
Sarala-Chalunia Beel             N/15         D,I      1,250/1,000    9,396/1,740    2.3        60      -  Rehabilitation of 3 regulators
drainage scheme               1976/77
Upazila-Pirgacha
Rehab. of Fblban and            1984/85        I         540/450       4,200/600      1.5      108      -  3.5' span bridge 6-6' long 9" dia
Sunderban LLPI                                                                                             RCC pipe
Upazlla-Sadar
Rehab. of Chiribondar and  290,292/NIONJ       I         389/344       2,322/430      1.4      131      -  Rehabilitation of checks, turnouts and
SaItora LLPI                   1979                                                                        crossings
Upazila-Chirirbondar
Pancha8ar Division
Electrical low-lift              N/41          I        480/385        2,465/465      1.9      160      -  Turnouts, crossings
block 2                       1976/77
Upazila-Debiganj
Electrical low-lift              N/45          1        1,120/890     5,724/1,080    5.4       196      -  TLrnouts, crossings
block 3                       1978/79
Upazila-Debiganj
Shahebar Bundh Irrigation        N/45          I         607/526       1,2001250      3.2      196      -  4 WRS-cum-bridge
scheme                        1978/79
Upauila-Boda
Bhully Bund Irrigation           279/N        D,l        486/364       1,000/200      0.4       35      -  2 regulators (lv 2'x2') and 2 regula-
scheme In UP Deblpur                                                                                       tors (lv 5'x5')
Upazila-!hakurgaon
Rajshahi Division
Regulator over Bidirpur                     D,FC,1   4,000/2,640           NA         5.0       40      -  Regulator                                   @ gpz
Ihar
Upasila-Codagari                                                                                                                                     oE., 



WFP no.                 Area (ha)       Benefited    Cost   Cost/ha  ERR
Name                              and year      Type      Gross/net    people/farms  (Tk M)   (US$)   (Z)  Proposed works
Kurigram Division
Siramali regulator                           D,FC,I   2,73511,215    9,000/1,500    3.6          42      -  Regulator (4v 5'x6')
Upazila-RUjarhat
Panchim Dhaniram                             D,FC,I      580/476            NA         3.9      217      -  Regulator (3v 5'x6')
regulator
Upozila-Fulbari
Ihurunagari regulator                        O,FC,I    7,5001910       7,500/1,200     3.0       65      -  Regulator (3v 5'x6')
Upaaila-Bhurungmari
Tangail Division
Jamalpur District
Bridge-cua-regulator           NE/41       D,FC,I   2,510/1,200    3,800/2,000    3.0          39      -  Bridge-cum-regulator
over Nalchia Rhal           1981/82
Upazila-Nelandab
Tan8aIl DistrIct
Addltional regulator          1978/79      D,FC,I      850/653        4,700/940      3.0      114     32  Regulator (2v 5x6')
connection with             1979180
Balljana Khal project
Upazila-Ohatail
Sherpur District
Bridge-cum regulator           NE/21          I        700/500       8,000/1,000    3.0       138      -  8v bridge-cum-regulator
over Karnaihora river       1980/81
Upazila-Sreebordi
Kymensingh Division
Regulator over Suktajuri         NE/58       D,FC,I     1,200/750       4,800/750      5.6      151     19  Regulator (lv 5'xf'), regulator
Khal                          1979/80                                                                       (1v 3'x3') and  .aeets 6 (Iv)
Ups:lla-Uhaluka
Regulator over Rupir Khal        NE/58       D,FC,I    1,100/730        7,000/900      3.5      103     32  Pipe drainage, regulator
Upazila-Uhaluka               1979/80
Goalior Saldah Labondah          NE 209      D,FC,I   2,025/1,500    7,500/1,500    6.0         195      -  2 regulators
project                       1981/82
Upszila-Kalalrkair and        NE/163       D,FC,I
Joydebpur                   1982/83
Barnal-Lambedhar Dhaka           Dhaka        D,FC    3,240(2,430    12,000(3,000    3.5         35      -  Regulator
that,                           1/10
Upaxtl4-Dhamral               1982183
Nobigani Division
Bahra WRS                       4NE1-           1        220/162        1,420/215      1.2      239      -  Rehabilitation of gate and 8
Upaxila-tadhabpar             1982/83                                                                       inlets                                     I i 



mFF no.                 Area (ha)      Benefited    Cost   Cost/ha  ERR
Name                             and year       Type      Gross/net    people/farms  (Tk 1)   (US$)   (Z)  Proposed works
Chittagong Division I
WKS over Nalua Chara Khal    Programed        D,I        405/324       2,500/500      2.0      199      -  WRS
Upaaila-Iatickebari        for 1986187
VRS over Gssaria Khal             Yes         D,I        890/486      6,000/1,200    2.0       133      -  WRS
Upaulla-Fatickcbari
WRS over Guimara Chara            Yes         D,I        730/486       2,500/500      25       166      -  WRS
Khal
Upazila-Raugarh
WRS over Rupaichari Khal          Yes         D,I        607/405       4,000/800      2.0      159      -  URS
Upaxila-Fatickchari
CEP rehabilliation at             SE        D,FC,SC   3,000/2,430   30,000/5,000    8.0         86      -  6 sluices, rehabilitation of sluice
Patengs. Polder 62            1982-87
Upaalla-Double Mooring
Dobasari-teratihat scheme       SE|158       D,FC,l   4,00013,240   20,000/4,000    8.0         65      -  3 regulators
Upazila-Satkania              1981/82
Mondakint repairs to URS                       NA        430/360           NA         2.2      197      -  Repairs to WRS
Upazila-_. __
Chietagong Division IT
Regulator & closing over        SE/1S5    D,FC,SC,I  4,000/3,400    7,500/1,500   18.0         145      -  Regulator closure
Ichakhali Khal
Upasxla-Nirsarai
Surface sluice in Polder                      D,FC    2,780/2,230   11,000/2,750    3.0         35      -  -
61/1
Upazdla-Sitakunda
Baman Sunday URS                               NA     4,000/3,000          NA        18.0      145      -  WRS
Upasil.-
Cox's Basaar Dtvision
Reconstruction of sluice        1985-87     D,FC,SC      970/870       2,000/400      1.2       40      -  Sluice rehabilitation
In Polder 64/28
Upazila-Chakaria
Repair of sluices 8 & 18        1985-87     D,FC,SC    1,000/425       2,000/400      1.3       42      -  2 sluices rehabilitated
in Polder 65
Upazila-ChakarIa
Repair of sluice 7 in           724222      D,FC,SC    1,000/970       1,750/350      0.5       16      -  Sluice rehabilitation
Polder 70
Upa21la-Moiscal
Repair of sluice 21 in          724231      D,FC,SC      400/150       1,100/170      0.2       16      -  Sluice rehabilitation
Polder 66/2                                                                                                                                             ig
Upazila-Coz's Bazaar                                                                                                                                ' 
Repair of sluIces 12 6          724230      D,FC,SC   2,000/1,680   10,500/1,490    1.3         21      -  2 sluices rehabilitated
15A in Polder 66/1
Upazila-Cox's Bazaar



WVFP no.               Area (ha)      Benefited    Cost  Cost/ha  ERR
Nce*                            and year       Type     Gross/net    people/farms  (Tk N)   (US$)  (1)  Proposed works
Varldur zDivislon
egulator over Chespur          205/SW       D,FC,I   5,180/4,050   25,000/5,000    8.5       53      -  2 regulators
Cb l                         1984/85
Upainla-Kashiaui
Retslator over Teljurl         297/SW       D,FC,I    .,430/2,025    5,000/1,000    8.5     113      -  2 regulators
netl                         1985/86
Upaslle-Uoalmanr
Regulator over Ihandor         1982/83     D,FC.1    2,025/405      4,000/1,000    3.5       56      -  Regulator
Beel Bhal at Raneagar
Upaslla-Bolrnit
Regulator at Belubona                      D,FC,1      600/400      10,000/1,500    1.0      54      -  Regulator (lv 3'V4')
Upaulla-Alfadanga
Rehab. Shatia psra lock-       302/SW       FC,I      2,070/600    40,000/5,050    1.5       23      -  Rehabilitation of regulator-cuv-lock
cu&-regulator                1982/83
UpOXIla-Kashian
SatkhIri Division II
Polder Z, slulce OA             SW/66       D,FC    1,200/1,200    5,000/1,000    2.6        70      -  Regulator (5'x6')
Upazila-Satkhira and         1985/86
Assasuni
Sluice in Polder 13-14/2    SY/2197/8384    D,FC    4,250/4,050   17,700/4,000    8.0        61      -  3 sluices
Upazila-Koytra               1984/85
Sluice in Folder 14/1          SW/2197      D,FC    2,530/2,000    6,300/1,600    4.4        56      -  2 sluices
Upazila-*oyra                1984/85
Jessore Divlsion
Structures at -agdanga In      1986/87     D,FC.I   5,450/4,700   16,000/3,200    8.1        48      -  4 flushing sluices, I drainage-cum-
Chenchuri Beel drainage                                                                                 flushing sluice
scheme
Upasila-Kalia/Warail
Bar a Division
pR    F. or Poilaer 42                     D,FC,SC   2,794/2,291         NA         9.4     109      -  Repair and additional flushing/drainage
Upazila-Barguna                                                                                         sluices
Rehab. of Polder 45                        D,FC,SC   2,000/3,645         NA         2.0      32      -  Repair and additional flushing/drainage
Upazila-Aatali                                                                                          sluices
Rehab. of Polder 40/1                      D,FC,SC   2,105/1,742         NA        11.4     175      -  Repair and additional flushing/drainage
Upazila-Patharghata                                                                                     sluices
Rehab. of Polder 40/2                      D,FC,SC   2,100/1,700         NA        13.7     210      -  Repair and addltional flushing/drainage
Upazila-Patharghata                                                                                     slulces
Patuakhall Division
Rehab. os roJAsr7%7/2          432367        D,I       857/700       2.850/475      5.0     188      -  Flushing sluice, drianage sluice and
Upasila-Kalapara                                                                                         rehabilitation of drainage sluice
Structure in Polder 43/28                   D,FC    2,270/2,040          NA         4.2      60      -  3 drainage sluices, 3 surface sluices
Upe:ila-Patuakhall
Barisal Division
teguzakh -d -bridge over                   D,FC,I   2,430/1,620          NA         3.0      40      -  Ragulator-cum-bridge
Katahi*Ii
Upaxila-Nalcbity dis-                                                                                                                            wli',
triet-Jhalkati
Total                                       97,500/72.464                 240.0



SANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. ORAIMAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Suamary of Identified and Projected Structures for 200 Appurtenant Subprojects
Gross                                  TyPe of Structure. Nuaiber/Cost Tk N
Area        Esti-                Now Works
8ene-       meted        Regu-                Water      Repairs and Rehab.   minor Now
Facility                           fitted       Cost        lators    Sluices  Ret. Str.  Reoulators/Sluices   Structures
"a        1i(WRS)
Iaentified SuboroJects (66 Nos.)
Flood Control and Drainage                  38.000         39         13/31      3/2         -               7/6
Drainage                                    20.000          S          9/6                                    1/2
Flood Control, Drainage and
Primary Irrigation Supply                110,000        109        31/100      5J7         -               2/2
Drainage and Priaary
Irrigation Supply                         12.000         20         7/6         -        4/10             11/4
Primary Irrigation Supply                    9.500         21         2/9         _        6/7                4/6
Flood Control. Drainage and                                                                                                                     UV
Salinity Control                         40,000          39         1/12        -          -               18/27                             AD
Subtotal                          229.500         3         63-164      6/9       0/17,             43/46
Average Cost Per Structure (Tk M)                                    2.6       1.1       1.7                1.1
Unidentified Suborojects (134 Nos.)    370.000            352       104/270    13/1i    16/27                571/26
Total All Subprojects 2/                599.500 2/    GIs         167/434    21/24    26/44              100/74             420/42 3/
1/  9ased on experience gained on the ongoing BWDS Small Schems Project. Credit 1467-10, and the appraised
fully planned subprojects. it is estimated that 10% of tho banifitted area would be served by primary
gravity irrigation supply.
2/ Numbers of structures are indicative only and would be dependent on cost and available financing.
3/ Estimate for all 200 subprojects.
*                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I!



-60-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Benchmark and Evaluation Studies
Introduction
1.      A series of benchmark and evaluation studies would be undertaken over
a period of five years (FY89-FY93). The studies would cover the engineering,
agriculturs' and socio-economic aspects of selected subprojects with a view
to assessing the project's impact and drawing lessons for the selection and
design of future schemes. Each year benchmark surveys would be undertaken in
five representative, newly approved, subprojects to determine pre-project
conditions. The selected sample of schemes would include one or two fully
planned subprojects while the balance would consist of appurtenant structures
subprojects, including repair and rehabilitation schemes. Also, evaluation
studies would be undertaken each year in five completed subprojects that had
been operational for at least one full year to assess the benefits of the
schemes.
Benchmark Studies
2.      Benchmark studies would be conducted with the objective of providing
or verifying data on engineering, agricultural and socio-economic aspects
prevailing prior to implementation ot the subprojects. The engineering data
would include details on existing flood control, drainage and irrigation
infrastructure, flooding condition in the subprojects and adjacent areas,
impact of floods on road accessibility, buildings and homesteads, and extent
of past relief efforts, including Food-For-Work (FFW) programs, for
rehabilitation works following floods. Most of this information would be
available in the feasibility reports. The agronomic and socio-economic data
collection would cover all relerant aspects to determine the present condi-
tion in the subproiects and their potential for future development. Most of
the information would be collected through interviews with farmers, local
leaders and representatives of support agencies.



-61-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.      Engineering Aspects.  The survey would specifically cover:
(a) inventory of existing infrastructure such as embankments,
regulators, water control structures, irrigation inlets with
comments on their operative condition; the structures should be
located on plans;
(b) preparation of polder plans indicating the shallow, medium, and
deeply flooded areas for normal annual floods and above-normal
floods ex?erienced over the last 10 years;
(c) information on present flooding conditions of adjacent areas,
including overbank spill (average and maximum height above bank
level), discharge through inoperative or non-existent regulators
or khals, damage due to flooding, the level of existing embank-
ments (average), breaches or reaches of embankment not yet con-
structed, and structures to be completed;
(d) information on road networks in the subprojects, accessibility
during the wet and dry season (for cars, four-wheel drive
vehicles, rickshaws, bicycles, and pedestrians); condition of the
bridges, culverts, foot bridges; the plan prepared for item (i)
above should include the road network;
(e) assessment of damages to educational buildings, markets, and
homesteads caused by normal annual floods and above-normal
floods; the report should include years of abnormal floods,
height and duration; and
(f) assessment of cost of relief work needed for rehabilitation of
roads, resectioning of embankments, desilting of khals, etc.
40      Agricultural and Socio-economic Aspects.  The benchmark surveys would
generate relevant information for representative farms in different flood
zones on cropping patterns, yields, cultivation practices, production,
employment, cost of production, and income levels for various groups of
project beneficiaries. The surveys would also seek information on marketing
channels used by various categories of farmers, characteristics of the local
population (family size, family labor), land tenure system, land fragmenta-
tion, relative importance of crops, livestock and fisheries activities as a
source of income or subsistence, local institutions serving agriculture and
their effectiveness, the extent of development of rural infrastructure, and
the quality of soils. This information would serve as a basis for an assess-
ment of the present agricultural and socio-economic conditions and of
agricultural potentialities in the project area.



-62-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Evaluation Studies
5.      Evaluation studies of completed subprojects would be undertaken with
the following objectives:
(a) assess the effectiveness of project works and any adverse effects
these works may have had; and
(b) collect and analyze data on agricultural and socio-economic
aspects to compare to the data collected during the benchmark
studies and determine the impact of the project works.
6.      The studies would specifically:
(a) review all relevant previous engineering, agricultural and
economic studies, benchmark studies, drawings (construction and
as-built), and the operation and maintenance manuals for the
subprojects;
(b) identify the technical causes of any under-performance of the
subprojects related to inadequacies in planning, design, con-
struction, operation and maintenance and recommend rectifications
and/or additional works to improve efficiency;
(c) identify all water resources (surface and groundwater) and assess
the need for modification of the scope and purpose of the sub-
projects, including irrigation and water management, in order to
fully develop their potential; especially examine the reliability
and equity of water supply to farmers;
(d) define the inventory of minor irrigation equipment (LLP, DTW and
STW) operating in the subprojects; determine the effective area
covered by this equipment and compare it with the designed com-
mand area; identify the technical, social, and economic con-
straints associated with under-development, if any, and make
recommendations as appropriate;
(e) identify the organizational and budgetary constraints and manage-
ment problems on O&M and other causes of under-performance of the
subprojects, and suggest alternative arrangements, procedures,
and financial provisions for effective OM;
(f) examine the direct effects of the project works to date on crop
production, farm level employment, and farm incomes; identify
these effects by tenure categories (landowners, sharecroppers,
etc);
(g) examine the contributions of various support services, i.e.,
agricultural extension, credit institutions, input supply agen-
cies, and recommend measures to improve their effectiveness; and



-63-
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(h) examine the farmers' involvement and participation in the use and
maintenance of project facilities, and, if necessary, recommend
measures to increase their involvement.
Procedures
7.      The procedures for conducting the benchmark and evaluation studies
would be similar.  Most of the information required to assess the sub-
projects' engineering aspects would be on file at BWDB (feasibility reports,
engineering documentation, O0M manuals). The engineer of the study team
would complement the available information by his own observations and
through discussions with BWDB staff concerned. Most of the information on
agricultural and socio-economic aspects would have to be collected through
field surveys. If no benchmark study had been undertaken previously for the
selected completed subprojects, information on pre-project conditions would
be collected during the evaluation studies.
8.      It is envisaged that agricultural and socio-economic data collection
for the benchmark and evaluation studies of selected subprojects would be
undertaken in two phases. During the first phase the study team would collect
relevant and up-to-date information on population, employment, holding sizes,
land tenure, cropping patterns, crop production, use of farm inputs, rental
and sales of irrigation equipment, use of agricultural credit, etc., from
statistical sources and agricultural support services operating in the sub-
project areas. The study team would also conduct group interviews with
leaders and farmers in a geographically well distributed and representative
sample of at least 25 villages. In small subprojects with fewer than 25
villages, group interviews would be conducted in all villages. During the
benchmark studies village leaders and farmers would be asked to discuss their
expectations about the subproject, both positive and negative. During the
evaluation studies an assessment would be made of all qualitative changes
(and, to the extent possible, quantitative changes) due to the subproject.
9.      During the second phase detailed interviews would be held with about
150 farm households in about three representative villages in each sub-
project. In each survey village a stratified random sample of about 50 farm
households would be selected on the basis of farm size and land ownership
status. Factual information would be collected on all relevant aspects,
including family composition, education, employment, land tenancy, crop
production, cropping practices, input use, use of labor (family and hired),
credit, etc. The information collected should be sufficient to prepare
typical pre-project farm budgets (benchmark studies), compare pre-project and
post-project farm budgets and estimate the internal economic rate of return
on subproject investments (evaluation studies).
10.     The farmers' opinions would be sought on the following subjects:
Benchmark Studies
(a) planned changes in cropping patterns and cropping practices after
completion of the subproject;



-64-
ANNEX 3
Page 5
(b) any problems that may be created because of the subproject;
(c) assistance received from Government support agencies, such as
DAE, BRDB, BADC, etc; and
(d) willingness to participate in, or contribute to, the operation
and maintenance of the subproject (nature of contribution to be
specified).
Evaluation Studies
(a) actual changes in cropping patterns and cropping practices made
possible by the subproject, and any further changes contemplated,
but not yet realized (including the use of irrigation water);
(b) any problems that were created due to the subproject; measures
taken or proposed to solve these problems;
(c) same as (c) above; and
(d) actual participation in O&M of the subprojects and suggestions
for improving O&M arrangements.
Consultants
11.     The benchmark and evaluation studies would be conducted by a local
consultants' firm or university. The initial contract would cover the first
year's study program, i.e., benchmark studies of five new subprojects and
evaluation studies of five subprojects completed under the First SSDFC
Project. In order to ensure consistency in the execution of the studies and
provided that the selected firm or university performs satisfactorily during
the first year, the contract would be renewed with the same firm or univer-
sity for study programs in subsequent years.
12.     The composition and man-month requirements of professional staff for
one year of the study program are estimated as follows:
Man-Month
Chief Economist/Team Leader                                10
Agricultural Economist                                     10
Agronomist                                                 10
Engineer                                                    6
Soils Specialist                                            2
O&M Specialist                                              4
Institution and Credit Specialist                           4
Sociologist                                                 2
Fisheries Specialist                                        2
50



-65-
ANNEX 3
Page 6
The team would also require support staff, including surveyors, statistical
officers, enumerators, data processing officers, and field supervisors. The
consultants would provide their own transportation, office accommodation,
equipment, report printing, and reproduction.
12.     BWDB would provide the consultant with all relevant information
available for the subprojects: identification and feasibility reports, bench-
mark survey reports, construction and as constructed drawings for the project
civil works, operation and maintenance manuals, details of FFW done in the
project area, hydrological data, and engineering survey plans.
13.     The consultants would work under the advice and guidance of the MOI's
Planning and Evaluation Cell, which would be responsible for the conduct of
the study. Regular meetings would be held with the consultants to assess
progress and address problems that may cause delays in conducting the study.
The consultants would submit the following reports, which would be discussed
at meetings with the Planning and Evaluation Cell, BWDB, CIDA, and IDA:
(a) an inception report (20 copies) within two months following
start-up; the report would include comments on the terms of
reference, work plan indicating the sequence of operations, and
the method of execution, etc;
(b) brief monthly progress reports (10 copies) and detailed quarterly
progress reports (20 copies) within two weeks of the end of the
reporting period;
(c) one draft final report (20 copies) for the benchmark studies and
one draft final report (20 copies) for the evaluation studies
one month before the end of the studies; and
(d) lists of surveyed farms with location and addresses for possible
re-identification (only for benchmark studies); questionaires
and other relevant documents, together with the final reports
(50 copies).



-66-                               AwE  4
Page i
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Modernization of BWDB's Accounting Proceduires
and Financial Management System
Background
1.      The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) was established in
1972 as the successor organizario:. to the Government's Irrigation Depart-
ment, after the former East Pakistan Water and Power De7elopment Authority
(EPWAPDA) was divided into two parts. As such, BWDB inherited accounting
procedures and a financial management system prescribed in the Code of
Public Works Accounts of Pakistan of 1951 (CPWA) and other Covernunent
manuals for departments engaged in construction activities. Even though
BWDB was set up as a semi-autonomous agency, its accounting procedures and
financial reporting systems continued to be governed by COB's codal rules
and manuals. These codes and manuals were formulated during the British
rule and were primarily designed to meet the needs of public works offi-
cials who were responsible for construction and O&M of small structures
throughout the country. However, over time the role of BWDB has changed
and its volume of work has vastly expanded. Construction works now range
from small single-purpose structures to large multipurpose schemes. Most
of these schemes are financed with assistance from a variety of foreign
donors. In order to function adequately as one of the country's principal
development agencies, BWDB's accounting procedures and financial manage-
ment system must be reviewed and modernized. At the same time, the skill
levels of BWDB's accounts staff should be substantially upgraded. Assis-
tance by qualified consultants will be required to bring about the neces-
sary changes.
Objectives
2.      The objective of this project component is to assist BWDB in
upgrading its financial management program by: (i) designing a modern
integrated accounting and financial management system with adequate inter-
nal financial controls over program costs, resources and liabilities; (ii)
adequately training accounts personnel in the performance of their duties;
and (iii) supervising implementation of the new system.



-67-                       ANNEX 4
Page 2
Project Staging and Time Frame
3.      The project will be carried out in two phases of six and eighteen
months, respectively. During Phase I the present accounting procedures,
financial management system, and organization and staffing arrangements
will be reviewed and a plan of action for introducing needed changes and
for training of accounts staff will be formulated. During Phase II the
agreed plan will be implemented.
Scope of Consultants Services
4.      Phase I.  The consultants will review BIRDB's existing accounts
procedures and financial reporting system. The review will include:
(a) existing accounting system of BWDB, together with CPWA and other
Government codes and manuals as applied by BWDB;
(b) Government's budgetary format and accounting system to be followed
by BWDB;
(c) statutory requirements of the Controller and Auditor General
(CAG), including appropriation accounts and formats for submission
of monthly and annual accounts;
(d) special requirements for submission of accounts for development
projects, including PP/PC-II-wise expenditures, currency-wise
monthly accounts and requirements by the donors;
(e) system of accounting at the field offices by division and by
project and consolidation of accounts;
(f) system of reporting to the Board by the divisional and circle
offices and by project directors;
(g) internal accounting controls over assets, liabilities, program
costs and funds and quality of accounting information available at
different levels of management;
(h) management of funds available to BWDB, including advances from GOB
for the construction program and pension/GPF fund; and
(i) keeping of suspense accounts and practices followed to clear
suspenses.
5.      On the basis of the review, and after having identified deficien-
cies in the existing system, the consultants will suggest appropriate
measures and a plan of action for improving the accounting and reporting
system, The plan should include recommendations for short-term actions,



-68-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
if any, and for the introduction of machine accounting for suitable parts
of the accounting work load. Consultants will identify areas of incom-
patibility, if any, of GOB's and CAG's requirements with BWDB's
semi-autonomous character and suggest corrective measures. The consult-
ants will also review the organization, responsibilities, and staffing of
BWDB's offices of Controller, Finance, Accounts and Internal Audit; sug-
gest measures to improve their efficiency; and make recommendations for
training of all existing and any new staff, which may be required, for
these offices.
6.      Phase II.  The consultants will design a detailed modern account-
ing and financial management system and prepare a manual of procedures for
the total system including formats for accounts and financial reports.
While designing the system, consultants should give due attention to:
(a) GOB's existing budgetary control and reporting requirements, as
they relate to BWDB, and CAG's statutory functions and attendant
reporting procedures;
(b) requirements of multilateral and bilateral financing agencies;
(c) project-related needs;
(d) accounts information required by different levels of BWDB's
management; and
(e) necessary accounts control and management information procedures
concerning assets, liabilities, stores, program costs, and funds.
7.      The consultants will also assist BWDB with the implementation of
agreed changes in the revised financial organization and prepare
qualifications and job descriptions for all staff positions.
8.      Finally, the consultants will develop and help implement a com-
prehensive training program for staff of BWDB's Accounts, Finance and
Audit offices. Institutional arrangements will be made to provide
in-service training to different categories of staff at regular intervals
and pre-entry training to newly recruited staff. Basic training in finan-
cial management and accounting practices will also be provided to
engineers and other technical personnel. Selected senior and mid-level
officers in the Accounts, Finance and Audit offices will be given the
opportunity to acquaint themselves with advanced financial management and
accounting principles through special annual class room programs to be
conducted in Bangladesh and in other developing or developed countries.



-69-                        ANNEX 4
Page 4
Consultant Services
9.      A qualified firm will be selected internationally to manage the
project. The firm will have had practical experience in developing
countries in the design and introduction of effective modern accounting
and financial reporting systems, and related internal control sub-systems
(i.ee, cash, stores, equipment, receivables, payables, construction costs,
etc) and internal audit programs. The firm should be in a position to
assess the training needs and to provide the training required to BWDB
staff, or to arrange for it. The firm will provide the specialist skills
necessary for the project. Those will include:
(a) Financial Management Specialist. He should have graduate-level
education in financial management and considerable professional
background in the public and private sectors in planning and
supervising the successful design and implementation of large
integrated budget, accounting and reporting systems; analysis of
manpower and training requirements for such systems; and all other
responsibilities of the consultants under the TOR. He will be
required for the full project period (24 months).
(b) Accounting Systems Analyst. He should have a graduate degree in
accounting, and proven experience and ability in the areas of
analysis, design, and implementation of geographically dispersed
budgetary and accounting systems. He will be required for six
months during Phase I and six months during Phase II.
(c) Organization and Management Specialist. He should have a degree
in business administration and proven experience in analyzing the
organizational, staffing, and training requirements of public
organizations and in developing plans of action for these. He
will be required for four months of Phase I of the project.
(d) Local Accountants. The team will require assistance by two local
experts (currently working in the Ministry of Finance) to assist
with analytical work (Phase I) and the implementation of the
project (Phase II). They should have a graduate degree and
experience in detailed accounts analysis on systems in developing
countries, including the operation of the System for Autonomous
Bodies Reporting and Evaluation (SABRE). The two locaL experts
will be required for the full project period.
Training Program
10.     The staff training program will be formulated during Phase I and
implemented during Phase II of the project. An adequate financial provi-
sion will be made in the project to cover the cost of the program, includ-
ing subsistence allowances and travel costs for the trainees; salaries and



ANNEX 4
-70-                          Page  5
fees for the trainers and guest speakers; rental cost of existing training
facilities in Bangladesh; equipment and supplies.
Project Coordination and Counterpart Staff
11.     The project will be attached to BWDB, which will be fully respon-
sible for providing the team of consultants with the necessary support,
including office space and counterpart staff. The Director of Accounts of
BWDB, working under the close supervision of the Member, Finance, will be
the project coordinator and will assign two senior officers of his staff
to work full-time with the consultant team for the duration of the
project. Through the Director of Accounts the consultant team will liaise
with the Chairman and Board Members of BWDB; senior officers of the Minis-
tries of Finance and Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control; the
CAG; and the Director, Foreign Aided Projects Audits.
Reporting Procedures
12.     The consultants will prepare an inception report for BWDB and the
financing agency (25 copies) within two months of initiating field
activities. The inception report will detail their work program for the
entire period and propose any changes in the TOR deemed necessary. At the
end of Phase I, six months after the start of the project, the consultants
will prepare a report (25 copies) with draft recommendations and a plan of
action for implementation. During Phase II, the consultants will prepare
quarterly progress reports (25 copies) and a draft final report (50
copies) on the project for BWDB and the financing agency.
13.     Estimated Cost of the Component (1987 Prices)
Tk       US$
(M)     ('000)
Consultant Services
(i) foreign consultants, 40 mm x US$12,500/mm         15.5      500
(ii) local consultants, 48 mm x Tk 25,000/mm           1.2        39
Training, LS                                           9.0       290
Equipment and Vehicles                                 5.0       161
Contingencies                                          2.3        74
Total                                              33.0    1,064



-71-                         ANNEX S
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND SHALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROLs DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Cost CeLi
Background
1.      At present BWDB is responsible for O&M of over 400 completed projects
ranging in size from small single structure schemes to large multipurpose
projects. Together, these projects provide irrigation water to some 290,000
ha, and flood control and drainage facilities to about 2.6 million ha. The
main source of funding for O&M activities is GOB's Revenue Budget with an
allocation of Tk 450 million (about US$15 million) for FY87. A second source
of funding is the Food-For-Work Programme (FFW), with an FY87 allocation for
BWDB of 95,000 m ton wheat, worth about US$14 million, cif Chittagong. BWDB
uses up to 90Z of its FFW wheat for repair and maintenance work on earthwork
structures in completed projects and the balance for construction of
earthworks in new schemes. Additional smaller sources of funding for O&M
activities are BWDB's Development Budget for completed parts of projects
still under construction and BWDB's cash foreign exchange budget for the
purchase of imported supplies and materials.
2.      Funding requirements for O&M activities in operational projects are
estimated annually by BWDB's divisional field offices. The estimates are
prepared separately for each of the four budgets mentioned above and are
submitted by the field offices to successive higher levels of BWDB's manage-
ment structure for review and approval. However, at no point during the
review process are the separate requests combined into one document showing
total 06M costs for all BWDB projects separately and together. Instead, the
separate budget requests are used as a basis for separate consultations
between BWDB management and the Treasury and the World Food Programme (WFP).
Subsequently, the Treasury and WFP determine their allocations for BWDB as a
whole for the next financial year. Detailed allocation of BWDB's overall
budget from different sources for O& work among the various field offices
and projects is determined by BWDB management.
3.      The budgec process summarized above has several disadvantages includ-
ing:
(a)  lack of comprehensive O&M cost estimates for BWDB's operational
projects; availability of accurate comprehensive estimates would
facilitate decision making on funding of OLM costs and on the
recovery of 0&M costs from the beneficiaries in irrigation
projects;
(b) all O&M cost estimates, whether for the Revenue Budget, FFW or
other budgets, are routinely prepared for the next financial



-72-
-72-                 ~~~~~ANNME 5
Page 2
year only; sound financial planning would require the prepara-
tion of tentative O&M cost estimates for at least the next five
years;
(c) BWDB does not routinely update estimates on future O&M costs
of projects still under construction; however, in order to plan
funding requirements for O&M in future years the O&M cost
estimates included in the Project Proformas of new projects
should be reviewed and updated each year;
(d) insufficient guidance is being given to BWDB's field divisions
to ensure consistency in the preparation of O&M cost estimates.
O&M Cost Cell
4.      In the future, BWDB's field divisions would continue to be respon-
sible for preparing annual estimates on O&M costs for all operational
projects. In order to overcome the difficulties described above, an O&M Cost
Cell would be established within the organizational unit headed by BWDB's
Chief Engineer, Monitoring and Evaluation. The Cost Cell would create and
maintain a computerized register of up-to-date O&M cost estimates for all
completed and new projects. Specific responsibilities of the Cost Cell would
be to:
(a) review and aggregate annual O&M cost estimates submitted by the
field divisions;
(b) annually update O&M cost estimates of all approved new projects
in consultation with the responsible planning unit and/or con-
strurtion division;
(c)  prepare rolling long-term (i.e. five years) estimates for O&M
funding for all BWDB projects; and
(d) ensure consistency in the procedures followed by the field
divisions for estimating O&M costs.
5.      Under the Second SSFCDI Project the services of a consultant expert
in cost estimating wouid be provided for a period of twelve months to help
BWDB establish the O&M Cost Cell. The expert would have a degree in civil
engineering, would have experience in the preparation of O&M cost estimates
for civil works schemes and would be familiar with the use of computers for
this purpose. During the first two months of his assignment, the expert
would review BWDB's current procedures for estimating O&M costs and prepare
detailed recommendations for a modern system, including staff and equipment
requ;rements for the proposed O&M Cost Cell. During the following ten months
the expert would set up the new system, train the Cost Cell's staff, and
assist the Cell with the preparation of medium-term O&V cost estimates for



-73-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
all projects, whether operational or still under construction. BWDB would
designate one Executive Engineer level officer to work full time with the
expert for the duration of his assignment. BWDB would designate the neces-
sary staff for the Cost Cell upon completion of the first part of the
expert's assignment.
6.      The cost of this project component is estimated at US$200,000 (Tk 6.2
million), of which US$150,000 (Tk 4.6 million) for the services of the expert
and US$50,000 for the procurement of one vehicle and necessary equipment and
materials.



-   --   --- - --
t~i {t   -------- ---q-- --1---  
Eq.        - -                                      -
! t  s[I'    ------    I- o--   -"*-- 
t                            -     - -    L -
iI!!                                                       I.



-75-                        ANNEX 6
Schedule 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Flood Rehabilitacion Works
FISCAL YEAR         I FY88    I   FY89    I  PY90    I  FY91    I
I _________ _                   1121 31 41  11_21 31 41 11 21 31 41 11 21 31 41
.I                      I   - .I                I           I
ILAND ACQUISITION          I         .3          Cl
I                          1          1            1          1I
!FLOOD PROTECTION WORKS    I          I            I           I
I         I            I           I           I
EBAUKMENT               |        .31          .71         C I
I STRUCTURES               I        .21         .61         C I
I PROTECTION WORKS         I        .21         .21         C |           I
I~ ~           1.                              I           I1          I
ITOWN PROTECTION WORKS     |        .21         .61         C I           I
I            .     ------I     --1-----            1          *            I
IBRAHMAPUTRA RIVER MODELLINGI         I            I           I          I
I STUDY                    I          I          .31        .7 |        C I
I   . _  _   _  _    _  _    I        I   _    _    I   _ _ _   I  . _ _    I
ICONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR   I         I            I           I          I
| DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION &   I          I            I           I
I MONITORING               |        .31         .71         C I
I..                     I                      I              . I      I
Note:
Cumulative progress shown at end of each fiscal year, e.g. .2 = 20%
completed, and C   fully completed.



SiIs  Ma SWa  FLOOD  R' OUj  IAIUW  I L31911   PS1EET
Table 1. Fodil nlioss  kSse - tiomlai 3.l /a
Isuiled Cost Table
osmtits                                          %~~~~~~~~~9W costs                                 TOtW, IMIqingu CatiloiiUc,
tw.t   97/9  U/em  99/90 909191   92/93 939494         w T ota  t ost PlU  999    9/09/9    19  92/9  934 94/9  Totui   87/9   am/1   899     90/91 91/m 92/9  939  9/9  Totul
1. MIN Cam
As tad kwAsitim                     36       2.3  5.3-  7.5                                          200 450.0 1*050.0      -                                150.0 524.7 W135.3          -                                1,9.
t. Bove  sI Iwnvstlatlu.            9,.        -     -                                      -             98.0   20.0       -- 100.0  93.3   25.9                                        -                                  119.2
C. civil bib
tbb   a.but135s kg,00.3                  -   32   32   16    -    -    -    -   80              16         SI5M.   512.0  256.0    -    -    -    - U1200.0         -  659.4   719.5  39.4    -       -     -     -1,748.3
3n1ma   wana (9 Re)          two00       -.  20   20   10    -    -    -    -   so              13     -  260.0  260.0  130.0       -    -    -    -   650.9        -  334.9   365.4  197.7                 -     -   999.0
1*-Total bartbait                                                                                              M 7.0  7720  336.0    -    -    -        -    .900     -  994.3 1s.08?   MI.         -    -    -    - 2046.3
2. Rauwtuss
ihi bitb Cor Urn              36         -    -  1.4  0,6          -       - -   -    2        70      -       -  99.0  420.0    -    -    -    - 1,400.0           -      - 1,345.2  619.7      -          -     -i.9           ?
36w i imt SNidl cm FM          VA6           0.5  0.5                            -    1      3,20       - 1,600.0 1,00.0                 -              3, - -   200.0  - 2,03.7 2,19.2                -     -    - 43229.9
Guod stiiwtu                   VA        -    -    2    2       -     -    -    -    4       1,40       -      - 3,200.0 3M20.      -    -    -    - 4,460.0        -      - 4t39.5 4,72.6    -    -    -    - 9,124.1
Pi   JUsts IN,                 No           -      5.5  5.5     -    -    -    -   It         23D       -      - 1s375.0 1,373.0    -    -    -    - 2,750.0        -      - 1,997.4 2#.e2.      -    -    -    - 3t916.2
Pbo btltskth                   36        -    - 5.5 5.5    .-              .            . -11   30     -       -      14.0  145.0   -    -    -    -   330.         -      -   226.5  243.5    -    -    -    -   46-9.
coiwata Num..                  so                                                    -  - -00-0-500. -    -           -      -                     1,00 00.0  -  - -        36%,3  737.8    -    -    -    - 1#424.1
91-oa twtos-1400781.  ,6.                                                                                                                   -     -    -1.9,            2P.03. 10M.741 9,5.4t-                         2,1.2
So-Tota Civil Nbit                                                                                         -  2,372.0 0,592O 6,046.0    -    -    -    - 17.010.0        - 3.023. 11.819, 9,93.5      -     -    -       23tM135
9. EUiiuetiIi SAftins. ib           9t.--                      -                    - -    -9.6  297.0 1,03.0  725.5    -    -    -    - 2s053.2  10.2  337.6 1,WV.4 1#013.3                               -     -     - 2#00,4
Total JIWESTENT 5611                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~539  ,43729.0 9,623.0 6.7M.5    -    -    -    - 20.463.2  629.2 4749.7 13146.4 9,95.9    -    - -    3476#1
Total                                                                             539~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.6 3.729,0 9,623#0 4,77.5    -    -    -    - 20,4a.2  63,2 4.74,7 13,146.4 9#951.8    -    -    -    - MOM6.
/a Poitmio u.ovwut to a Sposs ame at 1600 ha of ddil, 250 he. an vpliad vith aviw, eavitw irtitionm
/b  inhoa,riw  and odbi1sttation cost a 12n of civil waits, suivo  VAd ioetistln eosts                                                                                                                                                     l
Nmbor t 5. 99 15114



SE        SU  S:ILE S lOl CIN      i NL N IIWE  1 IP IM:4TIO  PICT
Table 2. Full, Plnwd  Sdcs - LaitP': E:Vtr I
Detailed test Table
'Tk '000)
Ibgttih                                                            Oe Ccti                                            Totals Iclwodird Cmtirntses
Unit  98710699/9 MO  1   96/9t9/91   92/.03   94   eta       U nlt Cost te/9     99 O   9/0  90/9m  912  923      /4     5 Total    07/   go    99/90   90/91/92 92/93 91        ! o4t95  Total
_| S   s      =      - cus s5 1s     . ........ ,    .  -         -        *      -         _                               ncrcl   *_ _           _atn        =    :-   :=r _       Z 
t. DS111  COS
A. L    Atwititim                     0             -             -- 3                                  200  190-0  420.0                                          600-.0  209.9  543.3                                         753.2
I. S9 vges I I,wwtigatir  b          his        -                                                            136.0   34 .1700  156.6   44.0                                                   -                                 202.6
r, Civil 1104
1. E.        .
Excavation (12 k)      1O0 003      -   12   24   24    -    -                               i s 0  1 -  216.0    320 422-0        -    -    -    1,080.0         -  27B.2   607.1 "          -    -    -    -  1,542.4
Sub-Ttal EattI ts                                                                                             -  216.0  432.0 432.0      -    -    -    -  1000            -      O    607.1 657.1     -    -    -    - 15042.4
2. SttUs
iw. Exist i                    NO.        -  0.3  0.7       -          -    -    -    1         29200     -  660.0 1150.0    -    -200k                                    89  21113.9    -                             2952e
1km PA  (6 wntu)               fo.               0 ,7    -                               1      7,000      - 2b100.0 4,900.0                            - 7,000.0      - 2,669.2  6,726,0     -9,35.2 .
Test Amiai Volts               !I.        -    -    2    2    -    -    -    -    4                20     -            4000.0         -    -    -    -    90.0         _       _     5.959.0        - _       _      -   113.9
Sub-,  : strtutes                                                                                             - 2.760,0 64910.0 40.0    -    -    -          9,290.0      - 3,506.1  9A94.9 59.0    -    -    -    - 12t461.9
9*-Totu1 Civil Wks                                                                                               - 2^,976.0 6,912.0 472.0   -    -    -    - 10,360.0        - 3,7.3  7501.9 716.1       -    -    -    -         4-3
P. E1m"I eind I                      SD  -s. -c  9--                                                          21.6  407.5  929.4 56.6    -    -    -    -  1,315.2  22.9  479.2  1067.9 79.1                -    -            1,64.1
Tout DItIESIIES COSTS                                                                                           337.e 38t37.5 7,740,4 526.6    -    -    -       - :2,445.2 391.4 4f952.6 1069.8-7 75.2     -      -    -    - t6i09.1
33tal7D?6 3,937.5 7740,4 SZ9   -    -    -    - 12,445.2 391.4 4,022.8 10.5o.   79.2        -    -    -    - 16,609.1
Total                                                                                                            33a.6 3tu..  =:4n        = e e -          W             ==:, sX                      =3 3 _
-'  F1ood cant?ol uvi dtaa  to 200C ha o gitch 670 he san       ' lied with trim" gtavit, Y'attimn.
/b  Incl,s top* svws  for ivilian .
/c  Euinuins xd anfiniti tiosn coat * 122 of ctiil swott  su,r and inwstifti:-  osts
ybe 5t 19S? 17-28



wumA
S SILL           FL OODl   It   -RE I IIIII  O
table 3. Fully Pld k       -   N1    /t Ja
btdbld Cot Tabl
IR '000)
2.~~~~ont4b                                    has~~~~~~~~e   couts                             Totals Incloti*. Conti.eias
vAt575538 so    /5 P 0i" 1'1/9  929  939494    Totai amit C.st vA/s           et"9599   90/9  91/9  am/9  n39  94   Total  87/55 MM8  O9/9   9/91   1/?2939944J5Towj
. Stvaw a lnnwstiStiem  Sb               u         .        .     .     .           -        -i-  -         240.0  360.0                   -         - -    -  600.0 279.8  465.7                      -                  745.S
C. civil b*is
1. StI'tU1
3ivsiun Vit (is vet)               fb.       -  0.3  0.5  0-2    -    -    -    -    I          4,00o     - I1200.0 2M000.   80.!     -    -    -    - 4,60.0       - 1,525.2 2,745.3 1tlSO.4    -    -    -    - s551.0
Ndn Cnl Stntus  (40 I.?                      -        -     -     -     -     -     -   - --                      -  200.0  200.9    -    -    -    -  400.0        -      -  274-5  295.1    -    -    -    -    P 6
Se*Total Stnturts                                                                                            - 120*0 2,200.0 I,000.0    -    -    -    - 4.400-0      - 1253.2 3.W19.0 1,475.5    -    -    -    - 6,20.6
ftin COlW  M  km)                1OtO 13     -    - 12-5  2.5    -    -    -    -   25             16     -       -  200.0  200.0    -    -           -  400.0           -     21.1  34.2    -    -    -    -    51.3          .
Distributien $1tst"                Ka        -    -  135  15    -    -    -    -  270               5     -       -  A75.0  675.0    -    -    -    - 1.350.0       -      -  948.6 1,026.7    -    -    -    - 1 M5.3         1"
8*-Total Eartb                                                                                                       -   75.0  575.0    -0-              - 150.0                  t9.6 1,350.9    -    -    -    - 2560.6
S*-Total Civil links                                                                                            -1,200.0 e M75.0 1,575.0    -    -    -    - 6,150.0     - 1525.2 4,249.5 2.906.4    -    -    -    - 8,31.2
0. E      r i'u.tit a Atis-, :          S52t.   137.2  39.0  25.0    -    -    -    -  310.0  30.5  220.)  475.1  314.2    -    -    -    - 1so0.0
.ta IN1SNE rsT COSTS                                                                                              . 2,24.2 344.0 210oo-o    -    -    -    - e5a0.0 993.4 2,57.9 4t724. 3120.?    -    -    -    -11,596.5
e -=_                            _        _         _ - -_p_                    _e--= =.= ...m    -
Tatul                                                                                                           76e.0 2,247.2 3,444.0 2,100.0    -    -    -    - 8560.0 893.4 2ts57.9 4724.5 3.120.7    -    -    -    -1
/a e.ints iritatiu  dstritution to 2?0 be,
lb JlduW to  we, totr iriNjtion.
/a Enginering and siniatstrtitm --t * 122 of civil W*st sury awd inrUftsUtiwi costs
c -e-g   5, M17 17.29



6 0        *     *|t         ts 0  M"    1 
2.            |     @  >         ii      Ug    a
I. '          .      gsa,,       as      a       s 
|~~~~~~~~~~~a,LZ '                      11       f
1            .     e            as      .. I   i1XO
ii aw   a a i  a a a a  as   a    at       sg
I   1a1"0W aoi; aR *8, a    I,      as             6
il.i.i;I                l.l -i ..ii
I .1, a 1.s1., aa    agas 1;i         i
I  51.l  I .aa .,,, .,   . u,,    a a    2
I Io.L.l58  a       2 18818  aaaia
I.1i1. 1.18  aa a.l               I a   I .DS
1.1,81.1.~      a a.  a  alas a. a1.
I.. aI   al.ig,.1      ..,        a,
I                                    
ssiiiw~~~~~~~-S



-  UL M  FMe LIt MUNK I                              T W
tib S. 9awd flSted I&     - tolddn  "  0
Pall.d Lust to1.
5Th '000)
BllitttSuu. Louts                                                                                                      Totals I,t1uiv  Cmft1   'Is
Udt  S?A          89   90/9  91 /92 V293 34 U9S    TOt   thit Lut  VIn     NOW    O9     9          91M93 9Y4 94M   TOWs   gVIM   MM                   9BUSS "    nJ             934 94/   Toa
1.-    co
A. Lad koua                                  Nb     12.6 29.4    -     -     -    -    -    -      42       200 29f.0 5#8-.0           -      - -    -          -      S4.0 2..3 7,606.4             -                             - 10-- 4.7
. s s   b w ssu    lb                        S                               - -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -  12.0    32.0  -   -    -         -     -   -   160.0  149.2    41.4      -       - - -'- 90.6
C. Cvi bits
1. EbtloikS
tu  OM_ (7ftI.)                       100013      -    4    -          -     -     -     -     -    4  17        -    68.- -                  -               -     -    60.0  -    97.6            -              -               9-.6
nor"s  (26f.)                         10003       -    - 17.5 17.5    -    -    -    -   15            54                    945.0  94        -    -           - 10            -       - 1*s.0 *,437.4    -    -    -    - 2,65A.
EC I    I, 0O (2 Me)                   0 003      -  U1s  too  135    -    -    -    -  4s             17        - 2m5.4 3t.O 2,295.0    -    -    -    - ?t65O.0              - 2,955.9 4M.0,2 3,40.9        - -       -     -    -Of"A-
EbawmtR he 514 1.)                    10 Is       -  100  10      -    -    -    -    -  200           66       - 116W0.0 I,0.0         -    -          -     -     - 3,200.0  - 2,060.7 2*24.3         -             -       - 4-109.2
a,tau  Cud$                           1000lg      -    - 12.5 12.5    -    -    -    -   25            13        -       -   142.5  162.5    -    -    -    -   32.0           -       -   220.4   247.2    -    -    -    -   475.5
tablD Latt-ut                                                                                                         3*963.0 5767.53,402.5    -    -    -    - 1313.0            - 5,104.2 8*105.1 5,175.4    -    -    -    -1834.7
2. ft atr-
1asia Iuvt (,91 a x .91n        x                      I -   u                                1 -     -     -   6-5  -   6.0                                  -      0         -       .2                                             2
tovdo I mt2 (1429   1.130A             60.        -  0,3  0.7    -    -    -    -            -                              1 261 -  0. 0 UO.O  -    -     -     -     - 2o3.0  -   97r.0 2t210.0       .* .9..
tuislto 2       ust 1,52 I x18 ,1)      60.       -  0.6  0.8  0.6    -    -    -    -    2          3tO0        - 10600.  240.0 1060.0    -    -    -    - 6,200.0            - 24.1 3,404.2 2,744.5    -               -    - -,5t2.e
b9 ta, a  ant 1-52 W x 1.3 5)           No.       -  0.9  1.2  0.9    -    -    -    -    3          3,500       - 3415D.0 4.2e0.0 3,150.0    -    -    -    - 1050.0           - 4,003.  5,765.1 4,647.9    -    -    -    - 14,416-0
Pi 3d,I kabob                          lb.        -    1    4    -    -                       5       200        -   200.0       8O#     -         -     -     -     - I0O1 .0  -   254.2  I00.1-- -                          -12.3
Pod bt1 Stm1 M                         Roo        -    - -    I 1-1                                   25D        -       -   250.0       -                         21-.0       -        -   343.2                  -               343.2
Pod                                    6.         -    -    a-1                                       200        -       -   200.0                                 200.0        -       -   274,5-274-5
otaDW S tatum                                                                                                      - 6,500.0 9s540.0 5.o1.0    -    -    -    - 21tt*o.0          - 02B*313,05.  7.392,3    -    -    -    -29,812.7
0T.Wl  Civ  OM"  t,t                                                                                                  - 50*A30     .   0*412.5          -    -    -    3            - 13,429.5 21,22 12,567.0        -    -    -   47,187.4
0. frAftwird I hwmt. /C            b         so        -            -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -15.4 1,265.4 1b06.9 1,009.5    -    -    -    - 4,127.2    16.3 10.1 2,364.9 1*40.9    -    -    -    - 5,2792
Totl JIIES1 W  COSS                                                                                                2W63.4 0*690.4 17144.4 9427o    -    -    -    - 46,92.2  3M1030 nMYsM. 23,565-1 1S7?-6    -    -    -    - 3,211.9
tsui                                                                                                                2,t63.4 17,690.4 17,144.4 9,422e.  -    -    -    - 46,920.2  M3103  2.505.3 23*565.1 13,M.6    -    -    -    - 63,211.9
.~~~~~~-                                                                                                   - .-              -           -                          n      -      --                  
/a n1od antI and saliAt, cettol ad drnino to 7166 ha
lb l1luks EN. swm  tor plau FF9 _c-
ft ErLi n tdms    VA ad    stugt, ctot   12t d  lvil as vewm ard iwntisatle. cost
bvOe St 1q'  17128



SO1W  w     SA! FLOO C     IR, O3       I 303011  FlRDJT
Table 6. Falls Plamad S        c OwtAbw livi. Extansimanl
M h cust Table
baitltst                                                     DMs Costs                                            Totals Zocluiol Cootirwainct
Halt
Wdit   PAID MMU  ORM9  90/M  91/9  92/  93/94 94/  TOWa  Cost 9710J 9319    99/90  90M9  9tJ9  92/9  93/94 94/9  Toa    979  KM/8    9/90  90/91  9I'M  92M9  93/4 94/   Total
I, omffN CUost
A. La  kWAIstian                   Ma       3.9  3.9                             -           ,    0   770.0  77.0         -                                 ,500   9.8  996.1           -1,9391,
el &Wism  I umiowsttims            SUN        -     -     -4-0.0   19.9                                                                                       50.0   46.6   12.9        -
C. civil h*.s
1. favtlm.&s
EubrA*met Mms (11 la)      1000 Oa      -    -   45   45    -    -    -    -   90   16              -       -   720.0  720.0      -    -    -    - 1,440.0         -      - l.O11.S 1,095.2     -    -    -    - 24I07.0
Cmod lsAc. (10 ta)   1000 Oa   -  21  21  - ----  42  13   - M 273.0 -P--O                                                              -              506,0    - 351.6 M5.6    -                                     735.3
Su-Total EaVt2s.s                                                                                          273.0  9MA,  720.         -    -      -       19.0         -  351.6 1.395.S 1,095.2     -    -    -    - 2,9802.
ownw stlu tvocas               a                -'0.5   0.5     -    -    -    -       I  '40       -       -   170.0   M.00      -    -               340.0       -       -  233.   20.1       -    -    -    -   4B4#2
OffWa kgs.                   Ha.        -     -     2    2    -    -        -    -    4  500        -       - 1,40.0 1,000.0           -     - -     2,40.0        -       - 1.372.7 11475.5    -    -    -    - 2449.02
EAt. TwnoAt                  NO.        -     -2.5  2.5         -    -      -    -    5   100       -       -  250.0  250.0       -    -     -         500.0       -       -  343.2  360.9    -    -    -    -   7120
Idt.TwnfAas                  lb,        -           6    6    -    -    -    -  12  17              -       - 102.0 162.0         -    -    -    - 204.0           -      - 140.0    MJ,        -    -    -    -   290.5
Omwtfl  Btwostwws            ft.        -     - 4.5  4.5        -    -    -    -    9   110         -       -  495.0  495.0    -    -    -    -  990*0             -       -  679.   73.        -    -    -    -  1,40.9
Field TwmatAs                lb.        -     -  12.5  12.5    -    -    -    -   25    9           -       -   112.5  112*5      -    -    -    -  Z5.0           -       -  1A. 4   166.0     -    -    -    -   320A
RaII*Stfltutoa               Ha.        -           2     2    -    -    -    -    4  25            -       -50.0    50.0         -    -    -    - 100.0           -       -   68.6  73.B    -    -    -    -    142.4
Itt-Tota  St*wtqzva                                                                                    -        -#17P.5  .1-79,5     -    -    -    - 4,-359.0        -    -- 2.991.7 392-15.9           - -    -       6t2076
9*-T.ta   Civil #01"-PL   3,172.5 2,39.5                                                                                                -                   6350         -351.6 4.37.2 4#311.!    -    -    -           -9,00498
3, EnaiauuW1s  S AMa!s. /b         so.4.6   36.0  300.7  '$7/.9    -                                                                              -         767.4     5.    39.9  490.1   45.9       -    -    -          1,42.13
Total IIIUIT  02511                                                            9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14.9 1,6.0355.2 3.2*7.4    -    - -  ,72.4   "p. 1.00.6 4,177.3 4,79.#    -                     2rOW4
TtOW                                                                                                      914.0 1,41.0 345.2 3.2*7A4       -                    B724 99.A.0. 4.677.3 4,797.0              -    -    -    - 12,20.4
to ofatvi tni*tiut distribmstion to 93 ba.
Ab  Etangtlsuv Wu and amstvatim  cost * 1In at civil watts, soveM aNW *nwsttiiu. costs
biruev St 1997 1723



Trbli 7. _M',ind Fflo PIaid                            n s
&kUied Cost TtOW
(Tk '000)
butit                                                        3g  catms                                              Totals It.ludlii CtAiMmlu
ubit
UnSt VAIS MN M  "I" 9     912 9        93/4 W     Tota t 97/6  SO             RM "9   1   "        3  924/95 Toa              IM      9 SW   0   90 /M9   91192      931   9M  Toa
1. T tIl5
it Lald nAt-       a  -- -                                                 - 30 m  -  hO-  -    -   -    -                                      2-O.O -   6t2 .3 1tO116-5 -    -    -                           6 - - *4
S It                 s        -        -- -                                  -0 -     4-.                           -0 20.9  03.3                                            -       -        -     -     - 1.2
C. civllam1
1. Eth*                                                                        -           -      - 1O.  . .0   130.0    9o 260.0    -    -    - 3lb .0    -      - 149W.6 2e69.9 16U4.3    -    -    - 51t17
2. fItiuture                                                                   -                    19,100. 26M0.6 19.510.0-   -    -    - 65..            -      - 2P999.2 38G2.3 30..         -    -    - 9e7.
90 T    a    Ibnb V                                                                                    MM0-  - 29e.@ 3r.0 2f97t0o.  -    -    - 99eto.o       -      - 41,44.! Wd.3.2 4703.2    -    -    - 147.1M2
3. b    W     I IbiAs. /b             -        -     -     - - -                           21.6   30.4 34S4.0 4.2.0 354.0    -    -    - 1.992.t  22.9   19.3 4.40.4 i.a66 5349.9    -    -    - I.ewo
rOW   _31S  CTo M1 %1. 278#.4 4bM4.0 4.2.  33t264.0    -    -    - 12.52.0  22.8 6h.11. 5993.7 57as.3 U                                                                                               -    -    -1     7.2
=M  a==   ~    xmi na      mm  ago  Sm  =a                                                           Sm                            6 mmu-    002~=
Ml                                                                                            201*.6  270.4 4.0464.0 -.M. 3.264.0    -    -    -    552.0 2232.6 6P311* .9    3.7 a.7257s ss2.30    -    -    - IW47.2
Bom  -0=8    m     = m vSmU     M   =M Sm = u                    -m  -90               in                         -      -ow=
to F1sd aiu gd *sla  to 16.6he ot WA                 It=   st M Uad with ..u, Arm% lntiem  A Its" h ith im_tw its Oiatie iosttikim.
A  Ebn* dmwi   *  a    stestil  eM t  In of eivil i*t eA -  and 1awUtatim emit
MI-De, Sp MW  M7N3
_  > S7 ns2a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ e



tf~~Wl  cut Tab
m m
blAbtit                                                         bw lnts                                                     Totls IlidIM  
etAt
Ait IW        P MM    901 91W 1 9 /2M        52m     TUtbl t st WM   i/P Wm    /    9UStI 9M         92/9M  S 9 95 Ttal    8A/   MM   P90   90M                   9M       23 9M     4 94YS bbtl
ton IOiS IsO
-  r
6. Lod  -m IUlt                                              -  -   30   a    -    5  210       -6iM.0  4.00                                           MM           - 7.761.6 1OO745.       -        -        -    -    - 20507.3
3. an, , S tIlNStiS-    - en                                                        -           -  37.0   315.0         -       -        -    -    -    n3.0        -  45.1   51.1-                           -    -    -  1,0162
C. Clvii bto
1. ta,tm,b,               S-                                                     -           -      - h40.0 16,30.0 14t0.0            -    -    - 42b0W00        -      - S1.39   25SM.7  MO7.1            -    -    - 6M22.9
2. itimis                  9o                             -        --                               -          240.0400e t 16.400.0    -    - S2-0               -      -        - 36,272.3 64r40,  74Mh        -    - 12.b96.5
9*t-o  ttal  -                                                                                         - b846000 4t14.0   600.0 M16A4A0    -    -12k00O0            -      - U49.1 61t9m.1 92M.27.M       9A4    -    - 193,2.4
3. ae            1*   h    9a          - a    on  -                _                                45.0 lAs#  4.96.0  6.9h0  1W966.0    _    - 149e.0              -   52.9 1W5.7 6#9X.3  10411.4  3,140.9    -    - 2n9i.2
tou  131iut lShI                                                                                   - 6.420M0 3,63.  4.3130 6%75.0 13,36.00    -    - t5Pom.0          - 8219.6 26st4.5 607.3 1024.3 304J    -    - 237.tn.1 
_ nM  Xmm   m, 922=m                               ..aa=               am$   ,mxm                                 _   _omao  oxxn  , _
TotW                                                                                                - 6420.0  3.4.0   643.0 67N3.0 1I3,36.0    -    -06572A.0          - 09296 26t4 5 6177.3 t12,W4.3 3.04,3                - 237172.1
/h Fnd cutsd .o dr*iso to 100t0 of h cb 2.0 ha a  sitidid dith prismis  irtliUm  an 2.00 be vit1  itv  in4ntih dsttit.
l  Eotmtw  asod  alstmtim  Mt  12a Inof civil guts s . we d iati*tion costs
bowur St 13 17125



OM MU RMIe __Mt nM I .
Uotd  rlo          tfjL
ntim 'r TN&
b|*ss~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~. _Cost                                                                                      Toal,IalO X t1ii ai
t asswntmnsrAFsv                                                                     b   n*Sll7                                                    tow s twil er*a #> rA   Si it Q nnsr
bit OM4  MO3 00190 90/9 91/9 9219 93/9 94/9 1..  Mrt Out  P/Ae    Sli           ORM9    90/9    f1/9   914   939494     Tota        VA/U     WV/   09/9    99/9t    91/9    92M9  9319 949   Total
- _-- --- - - -- - - _ - - -____ -___ --- _ -
1. _NR         CM
.ltd kAstl                                   -                                       no 3    t -  -  -    -  2W  2W  -  0O.4 1W.0 u,ooe.0  ,          *      - 4o.0           - 10343.8 22.3.  24.30.!           -       -        -    -  57.37
C.   um       ,  /9 fo23.g Iu.o                                                                                                                                    se. .0  JD.0  -    -    -  se.0    4   13S.3  147.0  17.4   5m.9  -    -      o
C. il Ub    %0 M  ht)                                                                  -                -0    1W.0 10,403.  13,00.0 6     .  9,WO            - 90-4.  tOl..O  23434.3  25.41.3 26.6 o9721.2 15,900.0    -    -  13b7,54.0
1. M M
_h      M.2   I                       tn t. 6 vs  3.,  145  29  2D  2V    2  14.S    -    -  145    2e  V7.0e ?JW.O  754W.0 75,43,0 75P403,0 37*.,0    -    - 377O,W4 43,505.3 95 06.0024 0 111.25.?7 18,373.    ,W9    -    -  S96
ft1*A    am.                    3..   I.e  3.6  3.6  3.   3.6  1.0    -    -             VW 1.e   lf3.0  bo-o   3 .0  .4,0  3v,  103.0                  - 10M.0  206.o0  4S.7?  4941-S  54311.3  s>-1  3a.1    -    -   221.4
Id" 3-. Ibutoms MD             l..   2.2  4.4  4.4  4.4  4.4  2.2    -    -   22    1.76   3243.  7?4P           7?*M.0  ? 4W0  7.40.   370.0      -    -  W,400  4,91.9  9,507.3 10,27.4 1I,26.3  II       1  6,30.1    -    -     .2.6
Ml 3 I"                        3.    3*5   17  t7  17   17  0.    -    -   60             2e  6375.0 12..  62.s2,0 12.3   t123.0 .35.0    -    -  2,75e4  7,5.0 126? 1731  1,012.02h 174 1 4.73.7    -    -   0h74.5
Uw. MnM.                       ft.    26   72  72   72   n    s        -                 100  S4W.0  7.2000  7.0  7.0.0  72.0  3,00.0e    -    - 3.@    4,1O.1  9151.5  9..t   10t                4  t1.13  60042    -    -   s5,24.0e
WMo1 s3tm                                                                                            5 .06eOSPO.0 0106 M.0  1OS    00.0   9.35.0    -    - s   .M.0 HA0.MS ,M276.2 140014 t 1 r1426.9 39,641t.1    -    - WA,
90t-ul Mil mb                                                                                      9.215o WA1 .A 0106,00.01 04  3      re0.0 51*21L     -    - 5t*.0  61,4N.  M5.2 1469091.4t t03e.t U71,9  364.1    -    -  77SO4.6
E.  mtr       I 6  mM. it            so      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -      64V0 12#97,86  2,7.6 ws6 120.  6.3.                 -    - 642M.0  63.   15,167.6 1t49 17.1 1,224.1 102o .5    -    -   0                .7
tdd    C_         $ t;u                                                                                                                                                      4232e ,46 377. *377. t5b6 65.1.17,5 3. d   _  -723.93.0 7.   t7  212   4.30.e217,e6. 1574    -    -4,a5
--d                                                                                                   6b3.32.14693.7.6154.377.619.9.6 ISM.613t,59     O&6.43 W    72b9a.-   79,239.7 t.7  212,93.5 22I,.o 217.0.11 2l       .     -    -1 3 4w9.5
/. Flm6 CM6a1 ad          toM 1.0,0W4 to of 13s 6.09  to... oupUad silt "Wm., irata  1,vlatls.,
A b   ltis be. hew  tap. pamMA  RU0 u
IcU_                                                                                                                                            _      _        _       __1_                           _       _       _      _
M.~~~, 5. 1907 67123~~~~~~~~~~



SE    SW   SCRIE FLOOD 03h13.t WAMIIE  S 18811t8     PIDET
Tale tO. Dee,sUtg ad Nai_wntc
Deled Cust Table
(tk '000)
oustits                                                        as Cots                                              Toals IncludiM  Contigmaies
Q.t 87o89 89  90/1 99M2 92r3 93n/494 nTol   Cost 87/888O   89/90  m/91  92  92M                       3/ n   9 9    TOal   87.A 88O/89/9  90,  nm    92m    9394   94/              Total
1.                           -      -    -         -     -          -           --                      a    nI                    n               --                -      n Cama .  
4, Fulls PlMid S*ProJts
1. LBrtlmik
fz6Er.hinoA                   9..      -    -   20   50  100  t50  225  225        70   1       -    - 209.0  560.01 100.0 1,500.0 2.250.0 2,250.0 7,780.0     -    - 257.5  698.3 101.l 2,40s.2 3,T5P   S 4,137.5 12,870.3
Drniea cnws                   he       -    -   20   70  130  180  250  250    900    8        -    - SO.0  560.0 1,040.0 1,440.0 2,000.0 2,000.0 7,230.0      -    - 206.0  7M2.1 1,56t.1 2.312.9 3.437.2 3,677.8  1t.977.0
9*-Tol Ewthomis                                                                                   -    - 360-0 1,060.0 24040.0 2t940.0 4,250.0 4,250.0 14.900.0   -    - 463.5 1A480.4 3,062.2 4722.1 7,3040  71S.2 24t847.3
2. Stiwirtv
Dti    R.                       .             -        -   10   20   42   42        4   D0      -    -    -       -  300-0  600.0 1260.0  I.260.0 3*420.0      -    -    -       -  450.3   963.7 2.165,4 24317.0 5,96.4
fluM Slic                       .      -    -    -    -    3   10   24   24        61   20      -    -    -       -   60.0  200.0   480.0   480.0 1.2200.      -    -    -       -   90.1   321.2   824.9  80.7 24118.
s                             l.       -    -    -    -    -    3    6    6        15   20      -    -    -       -      -   60-0   12O.0   120.0   300.0      -    -    -       -      -    96.4   206.2   220.7   M3.,
Otlwv St,uctwe               No.       -    -    -   50  180  150  215  215    730    3        -    -    -  150.0  300.0  450.0    4s.0   645.0 2911.0         -    -    -  209.5  450.3  m7s 1,180.5 19t8.1 3t677.l
Ttl Stim_tut                                                                                                 -  150.0  66O.0 1*310.0 2,535.0 2*505.0 7,130.0           -    -  209.5  990.? 2.104.1 4W3PM.0 4,6.4 W2I21S.7
SL el Pllst timud  S9me                                                                              -    - 60.0 1,210.0 2,7to.0 4,250.0 6,7is. 60 75.0 7            -    - 463.5 1,t8.9 4.es2.9  S 826.1 tt.609-0 1242A.6 37,063.0
1. Stt4tM
eSS  5.                        ID      -    -    -   30   80  100  146  146    502   30        -    -    -  980.0 2t40.0 3t0OOO,  4.30.0 40.0 15060.0          -    -    - 1,256.9 3602.6 4,e18.4 7,57.4 804N.3 252,59.6
fl          t Sui             ND            -    -    5   10   14   t8   le   6t5   10          -    -         50.0  100-0  14.0   180.0   180.0   a5.0        -    -    -   69.8  15.1   224.9   309.3   331.0   ,5M.1
ns                            l        -    -    -    s   10   15   22   22        74   20     -    -    -  100.0 20.0 300,0   440.0   400 I.40t.0                   -    -  13.7  300.2   48.8   75ht .2    091 2.47.0
oau  St"wtus                   o       -    -    -         00   50  360  360  1t120    3       -    -    -  150.0  300.0  750,0 1,080.0 19000.0 3,36O.0        -    -    -  289.5  450.3 1,284.6 ld6l 1,st6.0 5786.5
9Ttal Stwtues                                                                                     -    -    - 1t280.0 3e480.0 4 19.0 6,4.0 6t0.0 28.50.0          -    -    -   15.?- 4,503.2 617H.8 U0.48.? 1114 34.98,2
C,Tod Slrn -b                                                                                        - _        - 1t280.03.080.0 43etel   o 4S. 0 6 O 6,48o020.50.0     205.o-    -    - 1 9 4,503.2 6*729.B tO0.46.9 1,ltl4 u3pe.2
C. sell  Sim                                     _    _    _    _    _    *    *                     -    - 43.2  289.2  64,0 1.012.8 1,50.2 1*540.2 5109.6         -    - 55.6  403.9 19026.7 126.7 2#4.0 2.82.2 85092.1
Total    D min   1 M                                                                                         - 4e3.2 2.2 6.34.09,452.9 14i35.2 14,'31.2 47,689.6        -    -95t.1 3.769.0 t 9,2. 15t.t82.6 24,704.9 26434.2 80o193,3
Totl                                                                                                     *    - 4032 299.2 6b34.0 9#452,B 14.375.2 14#35.2 47,49.6       -    - 519.t 3.769.? 9,s82.e 1512.6 240704.9 26434.2 80*193.3
bvew St 197 17*28



-       3. M L ME    33. 1 I 60933~
Obtaa19tedCst T*t*
t am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
t.   cldPsaonek
ute A20s                       low1000 in 3.400  0.10  5,140   -        -    - - -    17.40   14  47.63.0-110400.0  M2400.0                 ---      -1,0.                                           -7833244103.  - -03.
2. 3at1.u  Ialed8 cmara II0tina and Uial89    2                                                       -             - 3.30,0 31,0.0                            -    0.03.0        -4.4#382 41W.04*-423
3. P,otgctle Vaks flel.adl  Tow P.twitm      23                                                                     - 311.03.0 31143.0                            J30410.0        -400.10.443.1 301.
L. P.a. 66d. S 36. - FV
361I1Wkt                                    **         i      7                                    89  310        140.0  2.W4.0   -- 330.04   1.10.1  24.094                                    --4S.
two Can 13 cc                                3B.       0.9   2.1            -       -         -    -  I  35      234S    MS4        -                          -      16    243.1   40.6          -                                0.
14 ft. hail bd  with WV hat.                 It.       1.2   2.8      --                              4  320    32.0   a".          -                               i260.0    379.2   96444       -                          -    .43
hAmV Cede. Oka                                           3     7      -89-t   so    I3.0   39.0                                     -                                  0.0    Im.9   30.9                                           S" 3.
M.T.4at PM,. EmIt. I0VA. - FV                                                                                   1T.93  4.434.1        -                               6.233L   t1.7.4  4.4                                          6  47423
if. 00411189 of bikw41e ie.                                                                      -                    -1-100 -8.01-. -   -   - MO  2Th447300.4                      - 1761   4.43.9 3&1.390      - -       -        10
F.ft  rdntoFMOOmiiltUa ft m                           ---                            -M   - -0  -MC    -                      --  -   -            - 30    AI  WA sw   -  -                  -     -  -
TOW                                                                                   LO&M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~08403197.244 10.30.02141.#   -   -   -   - 1,23.33.  117,944.4 100.333691.3.2 *199.  -   -   -   - 1.194933 
Om ~ ~ ~   ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       mt               lafa                                          .            .fna                    a  .  e   e.



SE  91J S9YIE 0Fl  1tUL, IMh  I MMY             t t IAST
Tabe 12. othre C   _wSts
Daiiled cost dl
(U '0811
USNmtit,                                                               ., tooU                      Ibtals tfigiM Coti, aftl,s
Mtsit VA* We s90/91M 91/92 92/93 93/9 94/95 Total Ihit Cost    /             9MM   9t19    MM    91M    92M     93/9  49  Totl            0/3    M/       89/9    91    1.1    929M        3     M     Toal
I. QMINER CE75
p, Tech. ""sit.
1. Emt
S.dm Car lO3cm.                    No.    M.9  2.1  -         -                         3       265   23L.5   S.5                           ' -  -       -    -    795.0    28.        60.2       -        -       -       -          - -     3
Fib", 01. Ewtip.                   S        -     -          -          -               -            3,300.0 7.79,00                      _ _                _ - 11,07.0 7      ,5 *                               -             -       U-'84.4
walit, Cmi Eedl .                  SU80.01,-0. -                                                     -      -      -       - - - 0      -   -0.0    ID.-  21114.0                                                 .-       -     -     -      6.6
smv. I ot?. E0,,                   sm       -                                           -            3,150.0  735.0        -   -       -           -    *    - 10,50.0   317.3   t9 27.4           -       -       -       -          -    t,t4.7
en                                 s             -                     -                             2.1-0.0 5,110.0       -       -       -       -    -    -  7,390.0   .m.   5411.4             -       -       -       -              IM- 774.3
S&*-Total EWA. wnt                                                                                      9,719.5 22a676.5      -       -               -    -    - 32-3M.    tAB4.3  24.0V                                     -    -    - 34,63.2
2. CormIta.ts
Camultants A..(268 W1)             Sll      -        -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -           - 1O.60 1itt00.O 10,680.0 14CO.0 1,600.0    -    - 83,0.00            - 17,4.1  8t.311t 8.84A 11. 0  2P766.0              - 95,4
Consultants-Loc  (1697 s/a)        sUP      -        -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -           - 11,M.0 11u0o.00 1180.0 11.o00 11,680.0    -    -!5$6.0               - 13.6416 16934  1205  V2.C4 1           .3          -  .
9-Tota1 Cwioltmts                                                                                            - 28,200.0 28,280.8 20,280.0 3,200.0 35e280.0    -    - 342,000        -    z56.   ,1- 2.4 30.42,  37.071.4 Pe w .3   -    - 1h794834 72
3, T,ainia                                    -         -     -     -     -                                  - 6.2800 6.290.0 6,280.0 6,280.0 6,280.0    -    - 318050.0            -  7,110.0  MR.2   015.0 3717.4 9,*27.5    -    - 4933
4. Fibr Glass   .                                                             -      -                                  3-      4        -    -    -                1 0-  -  -  3t.0 4.0.o    -  -  - 4--.,4 5.1  4 2              *    - 144S07
Sb-TotW Tbcb. AssIt.                                                                                      9,710.1 5707.5 1789,0 338  0o.o0 37,8%O 5   0.0 4         -21,895.0   9 8   6313.4,354   e82.0 50.4 604.7                      -   2e,9.9
8. PF7. tim. * gob.
cmcr,t. trt    tkbinm TIt.                    -    I    I    -  -        -     -     -    2        sco       -   8008   980.8         -       -       -    -    -  1.3.0            -       30.5   8944       -       -       -    -    - tt.9
Caocrte Moulds                       li.      -  280  200    -           -     -     -     -  400  0o.       -   180.0 o   00.0       -       -       -    -    -    200.0          -    10.0   11.8         -        -       -    -    -    228.6
Soil bring lio VWd Aees.             NO.      -    I           -         -     -     -     -    2  3,100     - 3.10,0  3e10e.0        -       -       -    -    -  6.200.0          -  st3n3.2 3.467          -       -             *    -  639.
48 9hbwlss                           NO.       -  7.5  7.5    -          -     -     -     -   15  30        - 2     o  2,0.0         -       -       -    -    -  S.M.0            -  3,101.2 3.t1.2        -        -       -          -  6274
N1to.c*s te cc                       MD.      -   15   is    -    -                  -   M          SP       -   7        75.0        -                                 0.0         ^    8.       8.5s       -        -       -    -    -   t5.6
14 ft S0md Boat .0th 40 If En        91.           tO 18 -             -     -     -     -   20   310       - 380.0 3h1t0.0          -       -       -    -    -  6.20.0           -  3h3732  3.46.7        -        -       -    -    -  6*d3.9
son 40 M EA                           0.       -    5    5    -          -     -     -     -   10  155       -   m.0   m.0            -       -       -    -    -  I.,".0           -     04L3   06.4        -        -       -    -    -  179.7
EoWunt for halit Covttol              SW       -    -    -         -     _-     _.0                                                   -       -       -    -    -  1,0000                                                                    M 54.1   59.0  -  -    -    -   ,103.0
&*-TO    Frx. Eri. I Wk.                                                                                       - 1t,75.0 It775.0       -        -       -    -    - 23950.0          -     m.05 M3.37 s                                   - 2st410.o
C.   t    |hoaik I Ee1wbon              Su       -         -     -     -     -     -     -     -     --- 200.0 280.0  2,0.0 2,800.0 2,000.0    -    - 10000.0                          -  23s.0 2D574.o 27.2   L            3.22      -    -  t3#93.5
0.  dohmizatm IY5 Pttowvts              Su- -              -     -                                                130 .0 _- o 580.0      -       -            -    - 3J.00.0           - 27.9578 10.451.3           -       -         -    - 36.480.3
E. sm8 cot Call                         5m- 6,80.                                                                               -        -       -       -    -    -  6t0000           -   529.8            -       -            -    -    -  6429,0
TtO IEal  NT 9,71.O5 93si.S 951,5 6 5.0 41,080.0 39,3M.0 36*40.0    -    - 809.0   988. 193.0 79n309 1t52 S22 s11to.0    -    - 3034
-   --  t--- ~                                                -   -umo -   ----  fl  -                                                            ol
Tbws                                                                                                           WM  s3#511.3 Btm.o 416,- w18  1 :2      St4.0                *        9       2 0   983.0 MUM t       SAW L     i..0    -             34t.o     942
Noeber 16t IW    t4:24



ANMI 8
E5msH                                                                    Table 1
SECDND SJW.L SCLE FLOOD CWTROL. RASINOE I IRRIGATION PROJCT
FananCind Plan bY SUwan koUnts
(118  000)
CADIAN
INTERNATIOA    INTERNATICW
DEVELC$ENt    DEVELOPINT   ONNT OF
ASSOCIATTON     ASMCt        DAN ESH          20tat
...... ------- ......                  Local (Exel. Dluies I
AaOmnt   I   AUnt2t   2    Amt   I    Amount    2   For. Exch.    Taxes)            TaXO
1. INVESTMlENT COSTS
A. Land ACOuisition - SSD 1                                                       -    -  39511.4 100.0   34511.4  3.2           -       3,511.4
D. Land Arkuisition - Flood Rehabilitaion Wotks                     -    -             -  3.145.5 100.0   3,145.5  2.9           -       34145.5
C. 8turo  t lr.eti.                                             252.7 100.0            -         - -         252.7  0.2          -         252.?        -
P, Aeppeied Full PlannOd  Wbroicts
1. C:Vil MOrks
E. thwork;                                              10118,2 90.0        -          124.2 10.0  1242.5  1.1          53.4      i#126.9     62.1
Structure                                               2.331.3 90.0        -    -    259.0 10.0   2,590.3  2.3         458.1      2.002.7    129.5
Sub-Total Civil Vorks                                      3,49,5 90.0         -    -    383.3 10.0   3,832.8  3.5         511.5      39129,6    191.6
SWTotal Apraised Fullv Planted Subicts                        3.449.5 90.0        -    -    383.3 10.0   3.832,8  3.5         511.5      3,129.6    191.6
E. lk.acnised FullY Planned SubproJectS   d GroeU
1. Earthyork                                               14396.4 90.0                   155.2  10.0  1551,5  1.4         63.9      1487.6
2. Structure                                               2,595.4 90.0        -    -    288.4  10.0   282.8  2.6          489.0      2,394.9
Su-ToQl Ihlavid FUllY Planed 8t.bojects-secon  Glro           3.991 .  90.0                  443.5 10.0   4t435,3  4,0        552.9      3.982,4
F. Ihwrais d Fullv Plaed SubproJects-Thira Growp
1. EarUttorks                                              10743.6 90.0        -    -    193.7 10.0   1,937.3  1.7          79.2      1rB5B.0        -
2. Structures                                              3.417.7 90.0             -    379.7  10.0   379.4  3.4          628.6      31168.9        -
SuTb-Ttl Ibtanreld Ful1Y nlaed Smroaects-Third 8mr            5.161.2 90.0        -    -    573.5 10.0   5,S34.7  5.2         707.8      5,0U69         -
8. A.,unt. Str. itwl. R.ir I Rheb
1. Earthworks (Food ter Mork)                                    -    -        -    -  4.004,1100.0   44004.1  3.6                    4,004.1
2. Structmres                                             20r602.2 90.0          G- 2.2891  10.0  22r891.4 20.6    3,"9.1            17,756.7  19144.6
8thTotl Appurt. Str. inl. Repair I RekWb                     20.602.2 76.6        -    -  6293.3  23.4  26,895.5 24.2    3,990.1        21i760.9  1,144,6
N. End. I Ad. -81                                             3h764.7  90.0       -    -    418.3 10.0   4.183,0  3.8            -       4,183.0        -
1. Flood Rdabilitation Varks
1. Flood Ebl. tivil  oS
Eartborks                                               8,648.4 90.0        -    -    960.9  10.0   9,609.4  8.7        436.7      8t692.2    4S0.5
Structure                                               2r565.9 90.0        -    -    205.1  10.0   2rB51.0  2.6        516.8      2.191.6    142.5
Proction Varks                                         23.093,0  90.0       -    -  2r563.9  10.0  254659.9 23.1    49651.3       19,724.7  1282M.9
d-Toetl Flood Eib. Civil Vorks                            34P307.3 90.0        -    -  3.811,9 10.0  30r119.2  34.3    Sr604.8       30,600.5  1,906.0
2.  dIelling ISramutra River-lood Rehabilitation Marks     2,804,9 100.0       -                   -    M204.9  25    2W168.8          6361         -
3. Can. SGrv. flood Rehoilitation Marks                    1.306.6 100.0       -    -         -    -   1,306#6  1.2        241.7      1,064.9        -
SuWTOtal Flood Reabilitation Works                           3MM418  1.0          -    -  3r811.9  9.0  42230.7  3S.0   8S015.3         32,309.5  1,906.0
J. End. I Ads. Flood Rhabilitation garks                      3347.9 90.0         -          372.0 10.0   3r719.9  3.4           -       3r719.9
K, Oter Comonmnts
1. Taledell Asist.                                               -    - 8.009,0 100.0         -    -   8.009.0  7.2    4,448.3        356O.7
2, E[a.Ph, -SFi1                                            *N96.6 61.0        -    -    317.5 39.0       814.1  0.7       442.1         54.5    317.5
3. E. I *7hb. Flood ReIulitatiun                             129.3 61.0        -    -      82.6 39.0      211.9  0.2       115.7         13.6     B2.6
4. Senet   I Evsluatin                                           -    -   416.6 100.0         -    -      416.6  0.4          -         416.6        -
S. NdeniuUm  MII  Accurt                                         -    - 1.12169 100.0         -    -   1.121.9  1.0        996.7        1252         -
6, 8ID 08W7 CELL                                                -    -   202.2 100.0         -    -      202,2  0.2      1I0.3          21.8        -
6 jal Oethr COenets                                             625.8  5.8 9.749.6 90.5    400.1  3.7  10.775.6  9.7    6,183.0          4sM19.4    400.1
Totl IESTIT   OS                                                79.614.7  73.2 90749.6  9.0 19.352.3  17.8 108,717#1 97.9   19.960.6      85.114.2  3.642.3
I. E0RW    ca8m1
A. IRAmTIoN a NAINUtE                                        1,822.9 80.0        -    -    455.7 20.0   2*278.6  2.1            -       2W.76
Ttal CW     CmS                                                  1.22,9 80.0         -    -    455.7 20.0   2.278,6  2.1            -      2.278.6         -
Totsl Disbursnt                                                  81437.6 73.4 97049.6  8.8  19,808.6 17.8  110.995.8 100.0   19.960.6      879.9  3.642.3
Nlbwr 17. 197 09132



-89-                         ANNEX 8
Table 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount     Percentage of Expenditures
Allocated          to be Financed
US$ million
Category
1. SSFCDI Works
(a) Civil Works                     30.2      90%
(b) Equipment and Vehicles           0.4      100% of Foreign expenditures,
or lO0  of Local expenditures
if manufactured locally, or
70% of local expenditures if
procured locally.
(c) Investigations and Surveys       0.2      100%
(d) Engineering and Administration 3.4        100%
(e) Operation and Maintenance        1.6      100% through FY93, 75% in FY94
and 50% in FY95
2. Flood Rehabilitation Works
(a) Civil Works                     30.5      90%
(b) Equipment and Vehicles           0.1      100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures if
manufactured locally, or
70% of local expenditures if
procured locally
(c) Engineering and Administration 3.0        100%
(d) Technical Assistance             3.6      100%
3. Unallocated
(a) SSFCDI Works                    4.2
(b) Flood Rehabilitation Works    4.3
Total                             81.5



-90-                         ANNEX 8
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CON.ROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year        Semester        Disbursements        Disbursements
US$ million-----------
1988                  II               10.1 1/               10.0
1989                   I                3.1                  13.1
II               12.7                  25.8
1990                   I               12.7                  38.5
II                9.3                  47.8
1991                   I                9.3                  57.1
II                4.8                  61.9
1992                   I                4.8                  66.7
II                4.7                  71.4
1993                   I                4.6                  76.0
II                1.9                  77.9
1994                   I                1.9                  79.8
II                0.3                  80.1
1995                   I                0.5                  80.6
I.I              0.6                   81.2
1996                   I                0.3                  81.5
l/  Authorized allocations of US$4 million for Special Account for SSFCDI
Works and US$6 million for Special Account for Flood Rehabilitation Works.
November 17, 1987



0
tAe
SROM  S5ALL SCALE nWO  COL.  DUM= AND  SMtITO   "M?
Socond SStD a I works                                                          400110"Oklai scl s Om ChOL
SIMGIMAU REEL2 3                                                                                  1M                     mS!                                                      a_    
Sebab. 2   oovw Stidge""
2~~~~~~~~~~ Ct oc L CI  14_5S_5_S_.   jtttf il fi e i-1  111i i   ig il tl IWO    il l il 0      I
b s _u    _     _I___ 1111415                                                              a                            rsI1 11rrrn Om  i  I I I Is  fIL    T  IT____TT
taouma eglaeso   t         LCS    1.43nv
2 Contracts
6S Vet.Reulator             C     14
(b.ck Structures (4 we]
uttte         t      WULCI  6.4 i_t
ftp. Outlets (11 no.)
)e__Lb. Pipe Outlets (1 Ps)       3.1  eevm
Calverts LS B
1 Contract              LCB    1.0
U2lCta-ev .                LC_    1.1 SO_-II
2 Cat_ 2t tATtUL
lmprovienmt MRS                                                                                       g        
Issulater 6 Vents
I Contract              LCD    7.0    m-
_       n_M,0Ston                                           SUEUTACt_Wns*                                             _     u~    
ee0mtmi.Iin                                           I Ia_UgegAfOU4OemOctet*O.                           *. c o _n.me   ate             senwweve
C   n sii R I                                           4= UUSWAISt                       _i ~tfite                                        *- _
.____F_tll_se   * wesUm                                                         *
0t.
C ~ ~  ~       ~        ~



ti -.
Scl  S"ALL SCAL  FLOOD c em. nl&1SGE AXI)D INRIGCAI                   PRIJC?
P    rO wT        J 8        . NW 8 FCA%  .. gAORKS
0[1O 1' I^a co1g,                                                                                  i1                                 2S2t $t
At 041   AaCt                        .
SIIWU   CIA-A                               _= I   = 4                                _    1         _               I I I                   I2  I I  r:1 1   1 ev1t         tlIIt  
Dive   Ron                    -      4.                                                                                                                                        I _i I   t I
1 Contract
canal Structuroes (40 awo
.4 Contracts                L.CS   0.4
CArtfon   _ canal                                      _1                                                           A                                            I 1 1_1
(5.1I 04)                    LCS   0.4
1 Contract
LQ__3553 1 t1    ffi-f                                                                                             1A
bbanbnnt raac6t.lo1:21,^,ggWT                                                                                         l                          4i
2 Contract,               La                                                                                                                        _r5
Cmaskat R-escavt.o
(20 km)                     IS 49
5 Contracts                             A"
ii.? OutleI_IChec      2tr.
(4 nluon.)5os
4 Contracts                C
*. nl an,*1mSO _  PnODctM anw roOOJ                              5,* _nTrOn,Tog,*OW,Cc       0'0O0Ztg,S                  * Con ccranW*t 'S               Co .wfcnTSSAt
0. 1*?5  Mu?.    pnS  TO*"                                    ) OA C"SA"og 0 WCPtWCSTm .u?M 0.0 00CURVE"I'S00SOCT.Ma 10.*Uows                      ~     C:&Oqw
C.  ACSA4UJ0  0inM?SWU*A CTO                                   0  ~*WW VOA?m?O                                                      14"C OW6g OWLM'         0.00.0
0                                                                            M&IA*N.0I o MW  tAO0 C                                                                                                                         2
01 



ton no tm                                                                                    UGLD
SECOND SWI. SCZ FLSOD COWMr. DRAIVZ  AND IURICUTtON PRW
PNOCUIESIT SEDCtLE FM     L c RnS
a
Canal .lnlagmoo    Ca
Polder 5512A                 _
I Couttact             1CR    0.07  1
closurt (2)
2 Contracts             C      .
WEB. Yw. (21 km)
io Contracts L,J    7.65                                                                                                                                                               MM
am   Rooam. (14 ko)                                                                            AT
7 contracts             C     32  em
Drataaa   anal
I Contract             LB     03
sluice (1 *O.)
I Contract             LC     0.6S T 1 ILA
3eldators (6 nos.)
6 Contracto            LC.   19.0  CTUAL
PU,. ,R. * tT-lb. O no*'
S contracts.c                  .
.me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CNVUTUMOPI                                          pe.
.Ug1A?tE- fa.W a ie_ufeI.c*?I0.IaCn                     I Vm,Ias    a_tm   eOsA. 7AmD00    WIn              I   T0C*IIOC URa PIJ"
OetVA&MA M1.vA IN TCIgm.tw,ce 4n o                                          *OTI  _ D  _AD MCO_        0   T10*tOC1WvCU
son" aaw  _                                                                                                               4. PaTO_*GWwwr
O mcit?wmmmca.0u.Lac*T G?.                  _                 W *AUA?10Voma -v*mCOI10.t #0E
*~2 ~IV*AWMIn.  mm    .T10"TODA                  I OA CLIAPWA O F0MI 0cowamm
o  Cx.mb   .sodoovT10                              C WWCMT.
Rs



SZOND SPALL Sca FU1D 0TRNL. DZAIRAMI AM) DURIGAO IPEDi
_nlu  _______________
~~~  STinItO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Poumm"e
k ,tS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oA
1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    go                                            gaSiSttl
.   ma.    _rD, (2    7oe)
ICoetracte  LCU   0.43 
OIUD IJR  . RET.
I.ca  1.44
Canal 3*,ec. (1.0 km)                     IIII
4 conktracts  LCE    0.53  -
Overf low Str (I no) 
1 Contract  WEB    .44  amVdno
Oft. TReout (1 no)
:x    Tai  to(_no
I Contract  LCB  .10  inwo
at. Turnout (2 nos)
OverzIl"  struct. (1 n
COWR-Cmm          0~~~~ G.A.m      ~0CA~O~O~
* mmmo&wg4noin?fm               m?at-m                                   p.
GP 4inT0inl NcWU4e*ln.ASl?VWtMm    enSiI~~ 



.-  NO. 11
SM  SIUIL SCAI f0 CU!WL UAM= A  Mam n                  Me
POGe*MtINT V6Q14,a11 PMv   oe..L
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-9
*__a___ _n_s ew1_De_ln _e_< -                                                     jL !sW=ItI
_a w_nts    ewam      Iht
Secod??(4 W...)
Karthv.?k        ~LCS   12.0  i.           -
_____ _ _                l_j                                              41ao*1no 7-u
60 contracts         L      150                                                                                                                                                                   i
Structures
340 Cotracts         U      16.                                            4 
AWIJRWAEI UOS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         III  
90 Contracts         LC3   90.0 u
Structures
350 Coumts           LS c30.
rn3ucein.1in0,sa..sa3e~~e,,                                                                               inue.wL
o aC  cmaet                                      * a@Cfl3*M0



*                               *SICC    SXAW  SCALE FO0D CCEfl. MUh                                              NDn           
nood Rebhblitatio  Works
- -   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~CtIIMIWVlllf *DOlW  Oleft CL SOUSI
_     ,_ _ __ _                 -11 t                                                                                                    ui_  _           ii8,___-  i     _Il iilL L !tt lStt_-----1|1*iZ
S ttuetuteAI                          5 0    1     e _eai                                                                                             _   i _ __E 1     
Protection Work.p orm"n                                                             8
Stectui Ws                   LCB   43.0  m0r_
ACUA _. . . . .    . .X .;                                                                      . . . . . . . . . . . .      ; ==4 = Im W 1 m       
ftrotctia or"                LC8    430.0   e      e   _  g _o i _ _    i                                                                         wnVA_einI1 1 |
.~7uamisTaaa7M~.?SU   TOV                        I tAttAAc _    I APA'f _A _o _OiiI~ _~ IOS _TAlmI I          III111                       -11 IsIA e; CAIII      ItI      III   11        1
C-nVL   ._.A.A.I _. . . . . . . I                                                                                            . . ._. .     . I.  I. I.. I IaI I1
Protectim~~~~~ Wo   _ __Irks  1 C   11  110  1110   1 L    -                         
Protoet:  ;:;;;   ; ;  &birlS l lllULs s s CB   4 }11011.0;1441
_~~~~~APQ    _I      _T T                                                                      I I I I I                      I   l  I I I I I I _          I  I  I  I  I  I  I   I It   I  I  CP%:'llT
0-A  =OTi~        * . fsu*.Os                                                                            *A-l=l T. .  . . . . . . r 
Acn," ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Avw_seT=t         l  In|I1l         -I_T"  IIILLILl*AIII    III   
_                       -Q   _  _ - is _  e E  EEI  1tEiILl llii  .
_                  e      9i   __  _i                                     !5        i__  Lt+ti  IHlIrW
A-t~~~~~~~~~~PRO LtO LSa OXl si                                 rwc <sV               o                              reno
F F v     T                                      s  t  w    P   0                                        ls  s     a     ;  n              osom
c-ereu"l_ns"DaaT                            n~"MIA
OQwA~v,m            C* D^ *co                                   ------DbtT                        ID
_-UT"_TtoTSFTMOP 000AOCTOC*MY                                 mamysm"lOn.o- w qn                                        eI4"TMNICVOMWs-roo
"MVLAT011CITM                                 ^,,^*o VCWTA9- ON O%N"1  ACPISCIM,cut"CMEII*91



SuOM    WJ SCALE n=LOOD CON            DRADW *   TnRxMa= ng          zvz
Second SSPD &   W Works
paocunumy Sodom "a eemwU SW MO ATa*gAL8
COmuctee TestinT
Mabn,(2 moe)
Concrete NMolds.1 
(400 MoS)                  LB 07    OO
Quality Control Equip.         ~     ~      wn
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 
0i12 During Rigs andopAlA
Acceseortee                ICR   6.2    *To                                                                                                                                                 i 
(2 Sets).. . . ...                                                                                                                                                                        . . .
4 MD Vbjceles
Motot cycles so cc
.14 ft Seed Boat. & 40
Jr Bogines                  PS    .62 
(2 moe)
14 ft $Peed Bsot & 40
BP magims                  WER  5.58
fla M.,M)                             ee       __       1_       _J C     J_ k     1 _7<l 1                                                                          I I_ I,,        I    I    I    I -I    I1 1    1 I
40~~~~~~ BP _U        ___l3___ S,___*4 o-L .  IPNM                                                                                I I I I I I I !I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II11111      
(2 m~~ ~       ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~e)  PS    e . eI___31__  arvata                                                                   f  1   I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I. I1 I I IIIIIIs,.     
Spare 4031 hginss~~~ILIL314-
Spare 40 UP Engines
A.~~~?IWinaM5*T~__ _ee   =W          =            AirnT _mA~K.  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ e* _T  _uW _T C         IIwx|SSSxx          s-_asz-w
Ws)                   I                                 I   ATmCC*CCO  O O1UT.24S                            SWTUOUVWOATPi
lb M        tor5l 0  c C                                           E1_<t _Su_    t  t  01 POt                                                       f  l-= . StU
(2    tlOzI)   =   a   =   =   H   1  _  3Eti  5  _  5  _ 1 c _ 1 m r I T T I fr I I I I T I ri =11 1-4=
ACI.Oft ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4 f Spet outt 4 =  _  . 1 1T I_ __ I_ __ Ls1  |  T  T  s  I  ltw X| |X || Xl san 
8p     AMMCMSO r                                             C0iPEL   ___    1    __I OF _PCX1.1 LMO _                    I.         11i1 II               u ] s |*|                *|I|ZI    
0-4Ot)UN  PS3  _1A_IMI._    __TIMI1A          1"W-1 r- ]O
.~~~~~~~~~P    a"              IllllT lilillllltHtdF  
Se ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM 4.L-0 II  EMPO_ _    r    -_    I I                1    _e    11-    13            I I  rT]I    11    11    1111        11    11  .1   11. 1DA:
(8nsul)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  ICIW  1.4m   _= _   sz .      ii  __  ==Toomlll-lI+;t1WlMla+JiUlll
04        *               I       s       _       t      _      "MtfCF lOO"LCI                                                                                                                                  0 Jr^82_



VL          a w               .  -a S L  O  U  @  U 
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UWMOIM *3                                                                      *Uu0.S~U.uLW S*W Soao__
" * " * _ "  1  - s " " "  ll  1 * - _ - _ " 22 " " S 2 = = e =  ll  =   _  1     |     1q3l* S3O&  l94  ;1                                                            t
.                                                                     ___ ____L11l     l     l    ]         II1:    I I I I11  I I I I I                 I.  I I* I I    I I   
*          s1:2_X|: -X_ass5==se==|**Lr^I I *I I *I I I tI I I I I I *I I I IT-l1LIWuw111
-     -    -     -     -     -    -     -     -    -    -    -    -     -     -    - S -     -     -    -     -     -     -     -    -     -    - "  s-    -    - . -    -     -     -     - ] -   g-    -    -    -     -     -    -     -     -  _      i1<il_  
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Tr r e _    eses5       ss 25 I                 H||m r       l+ r+         I|31j |_ 
-   -   -    -    -    - 1     -   -  -   -    -    - L -    -    -    -   - 1 - -    -    -    -    -    -  -    -    -  -   I 1 -    -    -  -    -    -   -    -    -  .   .    .   1.                    I I II L l        
"~~~~~             I I = en                   LL"n_"1-__                                                                                                           f  t   1  ll.TIl   !l|tl.T  wttilI   
_~~   ~~~ .                                           1___ ______T   I a 9     I I                      111:                  I I I I I I I I I                                                           _       _
=:==c   le=eLels_sI  I I I I I! I                                _I          1                                L  I I I a I    I I I  I I I I  I  I a I         1 I3 I I' I             &l I IDs I I
I  I  I  .   I  I  I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I   I  __ I  i  I   I  __   I III I
_       I I I a I I I    I I ; a                                         I I I   I I I            gl|[il   !    I I I I( I    IC I I I I I                  |i I I I    I I I
CIO                   0"~~~(sm 0g)
eA~~~P~. GA te
3~~UWd   UYSIWI   V  m   ~~~~~ GOou hPDS ?WI  030028V                                                           de o
za3a     8 6 P4 *1 #/: '  S*
-     - - -       - - -       . . .       . . .    



_%99_                        NE  I 10
Table I
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRICATION PROJECT
AREA BY FLOOD DEPTH IN PRE- AND POST-PROJECT CONDITIONS 1/
(ha)
Srinagar-aw4a-
Singimari Beet    Laithi River   Bhagyakul           Polder 55/2A
Flood Depth        Pre       Post    Pre    Post    Pre        Post      Pre    Post
Less tha  0.3 a       484      735       25    55         0    400           0 3,t40
0.3 - 1.0 a           166      140       60   410        50    500       5,340 1,930
1.0 - 1.6 m           220     185       575   460       378  1,050         330     0
More than 1.6 m       370      180      550   285    1,867    345            0     0
Total      1,240   1,240    1,210 1,210    2,295  2,29S         5,670 5,670
I/  for four appraised schemes with flood control components only.  Estimation
of flood depths was based on area elevation curves developed from irrigation
planning maps. Area is net cultivable acreage.
June 25 1987



-100-
ANNEX 10
Table 2
BANCLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRICATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Subproject: Singimari Beet
Area, he        Yield, m.t/ha       Production, o.t
Crow           _P            w     P    V      W      P      W       W
S. Aus         366   366   226   1.2  1.2   1.2    439    439    271
T. Aman (L)    903   903   677   1.8  1.8   2.0  1,662  1,662  1,354
T. Amn (HYV)   55    55   282   3.7  3.7   4.0    202    202  1,128
Boro(HW)       311   311   424   4.2  4.2   4.6  1,291  1,291  1,950
Wheat           85    85   282   1.8  1.8   2.0    150    150    564
Jute           311   311   311   1.4  1.4   1.4    429    429    429
Total      2,031 2031 1220             Cereals: 39750  3  TO   3,267
Note: P  -  Present
T  -  Without Project
W  -  With Project
June 25, 1987



ANNEX 10
-101-                   Table 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRICATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Subproject: Laithi River
Area, ha           Yield, m.t/ha          Production, m.t
Crop          P     t      1          P      W      V        P     _       V
8. Aman      160   160    240        1.2    1.2    1.4      192    192    336
T. AmAn (L)  405   405    445        1.6    1.6    1.8      632    632    819
Boro (HYV)   645   645    810        3.2    3.2    4.6   2,077  2,077  3,734
Total  tzTo 1,210 11049                               2,900 4,889
June 25, 1987



ANE  10
-102-                       Table 4
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRICATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Subproject:  Srinagar-Kawa-Bhagyakul (S-M-8)
Area, ha            Yield, m.t/ha          Production, met
Crop          P                W      P              w       P           w
B. Aus         -        -     200     -      -      0.9      -          184
S. Aman     1,047   1,047    570    1.4    1.4    1.7   1,445 1,445   946
Mlixed Aus-
Aman        678     678    440    1.6    1.6    1.8   1,058 1,058   810
T. Aun(L)      -       -      260     -      -      2.0      -     -    528
T. Amn(HY')   -        -      200     -      -      3.6            -    722
Boro(CY)      570     570  1,150    4.2    4.2    4.6   2,366 2,366 5,323
Wheat         100      100    120    1.8    1.8    2.0      184   154   244
Potato         60      60      80   13.8   13.8   13.8      829   8 .9 1,106
Pulses         58       58     70    0.7    0.7    0.7       43    43    52
Oilseeds      150      IS0     90    0.6    0.6    0.6       96    96    58
)ices         60      60     80    2.8    2.8    2.8       166   166   221
total      2,723   2,723  3,265                Cereals: 5,052 5,052 8,758
Others:  1,134 1,134 1,436
June 25, 1987



ANNEX 10
-103-                     Table 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Subproject: Polder 55/2A
Area, ha             Yieldt,  .t/ha         Production, m.t
Cro            P      W       V         P      V      w       P      W
W. Aus       1,195  1i,S  1,880       0. 7    0.7    0.9      8     884  1,730
T. Aus(L)      495    495   545       0.7    0.7    0.9    366    366    501
T. Amen(L)   5,115  5,115 5,400        1.4    1.4    2.0  7t059  7,059 10,800
Pulses         125    125   700       0.5    0.5    0.5       58     58    322
Spices          40      40    40       1.8    1.8    1.8      74     74      74
Watermelon      20      20    20      14.8   14.8   14.8    295    295    295
Total      6,990  6,990 8,585                 Cerals:  8,309  8,309 13,031
June 25, 1987



ANNEA 10
-104-                    Table 6
BANGLADESH
SECOND SNALL SCAL FLOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Subprojectt Gravity Irrigation, Chandpur Irrigation Project
Area, ha            Yield,, *.t/ha        Production, met
Crop            P    __       V w    P              V      P       U      w
B. Aman        260   260    260    1.4    1.4    1.4    364    364    364
T. Man (WYV)  720   720    720    3.7    3.7    3.7  2,642  2,642  2,642
aOrO (MWY)     650   650    980    5.5    5.5    5.5  3,582  3,582  S,400
Wheat (MW)    100   100        -    2.0    2.0       -    200    200       -
Potato          40    40       -   13.8   13.8       -    551    551       -
Oilseeds        60    60       -    0.7    0.7       -     42      42      -
Spices          SO    SO       -    1.8    1.8       -     92      92      -
Pulses          80    80            0.9    0.9       -     72      72      -
Total       1,960 1,960  1,960                CerelsS 6,788  6,788  8,406
June 25, 1987



105-                             Table I
LANGLADE$
SEON   HALS         O    O.       DRAINAGE AND MIIATIONPRJEC
CROP AREAS YILD  ANDP PRODUCTION
9ubpjU: I&bau hr
A    I ,A             Yield .MaLJA           Production.
aEu.           ..L.   JL        w    -L       -L      Ex      P      ..-L.     w
T. Au           67     67      -     3.0     3.0       -     201     201       -
T. Aan(L)       27      27     -     1.5     1.5       -      41      41       -
T. Amno  (ET)  243    243    270    4.5      4.5      4.5  1,094   1,094   1,215
Boro(RYY)      JM3    0JR    270    5.0      5.0      5. 40 M    St40   1.3S0
Total       445    445    540                           1,875   1,875   2,565
June 25, 1987



SMOpD SOMLL SCALE       D COUTOL.  ADIM     MMI I ICATION PIct
FARM nw     .r sinaiari Xe*I. 1 hectare
B. Am.     T. Anon, L    T. ALas,      more     Ubeat       Jute       Total  Noe-Caah   Coas  1/
Ana. ha                P (Preoent)           0.30        0.73          0.04        0.25      0.07       0.25       1.04
V (With Project)    0.18          0.55          0.23       0.34      0.23        0.25      1.70
Production Cos, T k
Labor                P                     8"         1.986           129         990       120        865      4.978    3.485    1,493
v                     533        1.496           741       1,346      396          6S     5,377    3,764    1.613
Bullock              P                      353         694            49         336        62        294      2.010    1.401       603
v                     212          074           202        459       270         294     2,191    1.534        657
Seed                 P                      166          123            t          42        47         37        422        -       422
V                      9            92            39          Si      IS3          37       477        -        477
Pesticide            P                       -           -             16         103        -51                  170        -       170
V                      -                          94         139       -           51        24        -        24
Fert i  iser
Urea                P                       38           8            20         185        39         46        426        -       426
w                      23           74           114         252      139          46       6U         -        648
?SP                 p                       18          73            11         113        19         IS        249        -       249
t                      1i1          5S            63         1S3       69          IS        36*       -        366 
Hp                  P                       -           -              2          25         7         12         46        -        46
w                      -            -             11          34       23          12         s0       -         s0
Irrigation           P                      -            -             -           -        -                      -        -         -
Total                P                    1.463       3.174           234      1I796        314      1.320      .301    4.692    3.409
V                     859        2.391         1.344      2.440    1,050        1,320     9.423    5,29      4,125
Production Value 31
Production           P                     360        1.314           148       1.050       126        350
(K)             V                      216        1.100           920      1.S64       440         350
Value main Products P                     1.944       7,096           799       S.670      680       1.505   .17.694
(Tk)            v                    1.166        S.940        4.968       6,446    2.484        1,505    24.5@9
Cross Value          P                   2.138        ?.806           $79       6.237       748      1.656    19.464
(Tt)             v                   1.ZB3        6.34          5,6S5      9.291    2.732        1,656    26,961
fam Jnscoe             P                                                                                         16.055
(1Tk             Y                                                                                        22.836
Notes:
11  Hired labor 302 and hired bullock 201                                                                                                                   !fl
V   Labor Tk 20Iuanday; butlock Tk 25Jdy; paddy and wheat seeds Tk 61g4; Jute seeds Tk 16.S14g; pesticides Tk 2051Jg;
Urea Tk 5/tg8 TSP Tk 5/S1 and KP Tk 41K.
Yt Yields are shown in AMUEX 10. Table 2; paddy and wbeat prices Tk 5.4/4K; Jute Tk 4.419g. Croe value equals valge
saia product. plus value by-products t102 of value main products); and farm incowe equals gre.. value sinus ceah
production cost.
June 25, 1987



-107-        ,                    iab-T;-7
Table 9
BANCLADISM
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD COCNTOL, DRAINAGE AND IRIRCATION PROJECT
FAI8  WUDGET:  Laithi River, 1 hectare
Non-Cash   Cash 1/
S. Amen   T. Amen. L    Bearo       Total      Cost      Cost
Area, ha      P (Present)        0.6          0.41        0.64        1.21
v (Vith Project)  0.24          0.45        0.81        1.50
Production Cost, Tk 2
Labor;-------F P                 320        1,025       2,368      3,713   2,599       1,114
V                   480        1,170       3,159       4,809   3,366      1,443
Bullock     P                    160          460         800       1,420   1,136        284
v                   240          506       1,012       1,t58   1,406        352
Seed        P                     96           74         115         285                285
w                   144           81         146         371                371
Pesticide   P                    -            -          262         262                 262
V                   -            -          332         332                 332
FPrtiliser
Urea       P                    -            51        400         451                  451
-                   -            79         688         767                 767
TSP        P                    -            20         160        180                  180
V                   -            56         405         461                 461
HP         P                    -            -           26         26                   26'
V                     -          18          81          99                  99
Irrigation  P                    -            -       3,748       31,748                3,748
V                   -            -        4,743      4,743                 4,743
TP--kl      p                   576        1,630       7,879     10,085      3,735      6,350
V                  864        1,910      10O,566    13,340      4,772      8,568
Production Value 3/
Production  P                   192          656      2,048       2,896
(Kg)     W                  336          810       3,726       4,872
Value Main
Products. P                 1,037       3,542      11,059      15,638
(Tk)     V                1,814        4,374      20,120      26,308
Cross Value P                 1,141        3,896     12,165      17,202
(Tk)     w                1,995        4,811      22,132      28,938
Farm Income  P                                                    10,8S52
MTz      V                                                    20,370
Notes:
1/  Hired labor 302 and hired bullock 20X.
2/ Labor Tk 20/manday, bullock Tk 25/day; paddy and wheat seeds Tk 6/Kg; pesticides Tk 205/Kg;
Urea Tk 5/Kg; TSP Tk 5/Kg and MP Tk 4/Kg.
3/ Yields are shown in ANNEX 10, Table 3; paddy and wheat prices Tk 5.4/Kg. Cross-value equals
total value main products plus value by-products (10% of value main products); and farm
farm income equals gross value minus cash production cost.
June 25, 1987



USNGLADE SH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM 5UOGET: Srlnoaar-Nawa-Shaovakul. I hectar.
B. Aus   Mi*ed   8. Aman  T. Aan  T. Aman  8Oro   Wheat  Oilseeds  Other 1/    Total   Non-Cash  Cash 2/
Aus*A"nl____          L        HVV    ___             ____    abi Icrops              Cost
Area. ha    P                     30    0.40    6                   0.25   0.04      0.07 9 .0oc1
w         0.09    0.19    0.25    0.11        0.09      O.SO   0.0S      0.04      0.10       1.42
Production Cost. Tk 3/
Labor      P             -    1.106   1.594       -         -      1.514    120       152        123     4.669    3.209       1.400
U           428     738    86       471       507    3.203   1S          87        175     6.639    4.647       1.992
Bullock    P             -      630      9"6      -         -        613     94       122         60     2.485    1.98B         497
W           189     399      S25     242       I9s    1.225    113         70         aS     3.051    2.441         610
Seed       P            -       1t0      276      -         -         45     28         6         18      53                   553
U            54     114      ISO       20       16        90     34         3         26       507                  507
Pesticides P             -       -        -       -         -        102     -         -          -         102                 102
w            -       -        -       -         37       205     -         -          -        242                  242
fertilizer
Urea       P            -       -        -       -         -        t55      17        9         -         181                1S1
v            -       -        -        28       54       370     25         5         -        452                  482
TSP       P            -        -        -       -         -         63      5        22         -         90                   90
U            -       -        -        22       23       ISO      1o       31         -         236                 236
up        p             -       -        -       -         -         12      6         4         -          22                  22
U            -       -        -         6        4        24       2        2         -          37                  37
Irrigation P            -        -        -       -         -      1.464     -         -          -      t.464                1.464
U            -       -        -        -        -      2.926     -         -          -      2.928                2.928
Total      P            -    1.976   2.836        -         -     3.968    270        315        201     9.566    5.257       4.309
U           671   1.251   1,541      794       839    8.195    347        198        288    14.122    7.088       7.034
Product"a  Vlue Al/
Productton V             -      480      644      -         -      1.050     72        42         49
(KoJ    u            81      342     425      220       324    2.300    100         24        70
Value main
Products  P             -    2.592   3.478       -         -     5.670    389        328        348    12.805
(Tk)     w           437   1.847   2.295   1.188    1.750   12.420    540           187       497    21.161
Gross
Value     P             -    2.851   3.826       -         -     6,237    428        361        383    14.086
(Tk)     w           480   2.032   2.525   1.307    1,925   13.662    594           206       547    23.277
Pci. Income P                                                                                             9.777
(Tk)     w                                                                                            16.243
"Ots.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note:                                                                                                   
1/  Represented by pulses.                                                                                                                               =e
2/  Hired labor 30% and hired bullock 20%.                                                                                                            II!
5i  Labor Tk 35/manday; bullock Tk 50/day; paddy and wheat seeds Tk 6/Xg; oilseed needs Tb 9.4/Mg; pulses seeds Tk 6.6/Kg;                            t
pesticides TK 2O5Skg: urea Tb S/K9; TSP Tk 5/Kg; IP Tk 4/Kg; and Irrigation expenses Tk 5.856/ha.
4/  Yields are snown in ANNEX 10. Table 4; paddy and wheat Tb 5.4/Kg; ollseeds Tk 7.8/Kg; pulses Tk 7.1/K9.  Gross value
equals total value main products plus value by-products (10% of value main products); and form Income equals groas value
minus cash production cost.
Jule 25. 1987



BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM 8UDGETt Polder 55/2A. 1 hectaro
"on-Cash
S. Au   T. Asl0..  T. Aman L  Pulses 1/  Total  Cost         Cash Cost 2/
Au*ha          P       0.21    60900       0.90       0.03        1.23
W       0.33    0.10        0.95       0.13        1.51
Ptuuctioo Cost. Tk 3/
Labor             P         708     304      2.035         34       3.881   2.717        1.164
N      1.114      338      2,993        146      4.S91   3.2i4        1.377
Oullock           P         277      135     1.350         18       1.780   1.424          356
U        436      tso      1.426         78       2,089   1.671         410
Seads             P         126       10       162          a         312       -         312
W         1S"      to        171         34         421      -          421
Pebticides        P                             -          -           - 
Fertilizers         .                                                                                                  I
Ure              P          -       -          -          -           -        --
W         -        -         119                   - 119                I s
TSP              P          -       -          -          -                    -                                       .
N          -       -          71                     71                  71
UP               p          _-                                        - _
W          -       -          38         -           38       -          38
Irrigation        P          -       -          -          -           _        _
N          -       -          -          -           -       -            _
Total             P       1.111     455      4.347         60       5.973   4.141       1.832
W      1.748      506      4.,17        258       7.329   4.885       2.444
Pioduction Value  4/
Production        P         147      63      1.260         15
(Kg)        w         297       90      1.900         65
Value Mdin
Products         P         794     340      6.a04        107       8.045
4Tk)        w       1.604      486    10.260        462      12.812
6ruos  Value      P         874     374      1.404        lie       8.850
ilk)                11,764     535    '11.26        508      14,093
fdrm Income       P                                                 7,018
In)         W                                                11.649
Note;
1/  Also representing other crops such as spices and watermelon.
2/  lired labor 30% and hired bullock 20%.
j/  Labor Tk 25/ianday; bullock Tk 30/day; paddy seeds Tk 6/K9; pulses seeds Tk 0.6/Kg;
urea Tk 5/Kg; TSP Tk S/Kg and LP Tk 41K9.
4/  Vie)ds are snown in ANNEX 10. Table 5s paddy ir  5.4/Kg; pulses Tk 7.1/Kg.
Gross value equals value main products plus value by-products (10% of main product
value); and farm Income equals gross value minus cash cost.
Ju esZ5. 19U1



*ANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. ORA1NAGE AND   .IGATIO4 PROJECT
FARM BUOGETS  Gravity Irrigatton. CIP. I hectars
T. Amen.                                                             Mon-Cash
8. Amen    HYV      aora  Wheat  Poteto  Olseeds  Spice*   Pulses  Total  Cost           Cash Cost
Ares. ha          P          0.27     0.73      0.66  *. 1   0.04        0.06       OsF - T l 
w         0.27      0.73      1.00      -      -         -          -       -      2.00
Production Cost. Tk 21
Labor             P           892    1.890    5.082    335    280         158        263      129   9.129   6.390        2.739
w          992    1.890    7.700        -      -         -          -       -   10.582   7.407         3.175
Bullock           P           510    1.478    1.485    198       90        95         68      108   4.032   3,226           80s
w          510    1.478    2.250        -      -         -          -       -    4.236   3.390           848
Seeds             P           162       131       119     66    120         6          2       21     627       -           627
W           162      131       SO                                          -       473       -          473
Pesticides        P            -        300      270                -       -             -           570       -           570
w            -       300       410      -      -         -          -       -       710       -          710
Fertilizers
urea             P            -       584       726      55      1S       12          6       -    1.398       -         I.398
W            -       584    1.100       -      -         -          -       -    1.654        -        1.684
TSP              P            -       274       412      28      10       26         10       -      760       -           760
W            -       274       62S      -      -         -          -       -       899       -          89                      1
ap               P            -         73       132     11       6        6          2       -      230       -           230
w            -        73       200      -      -         -          -       -       273       -          273
Irrigation        P            -         -     2,077                -       -                  -    2,077       -         2.077
w            -        -        370      -      -         -          -               370       -          370
lotal             P         1.664    4.730   10.303    693    521         303        351      258  10,823   9.616        9.207
W         1.664    4.730   12.835       -      -         -          -       -   19%229  10.797         8.432
Production Value 3/
Production        P           378    2,700    3.630    220    552          42         90       72
(Kg)         U           376    2.700    5.500       -       -         -          -       -
Value Main
Products        P         2.041   14.580   19.602  1,186    828         328        441     S11  39.519
(Tk)         W         2,041   14.580   29.700        -      -         -          -       -   46.321
Gross Value       p         2.246   16.039   21.562  1,307    911         361        485      S62  43.471
(Tk)         w         2.245   16.038   32.670        -      -         -          -       -   50.953
Far, Income       P                                                                                34.264
(Tk)         W                                                                                 42,621
Note:
1/  htred labor 30% and hired Dullock 20%.
2/  Labor Tk 35/manoay; bullocK Tk 45/day; paddy and wheat seeds Tk 6/K9; potato seeds Tb 3/Kg;
oilseeds seed TK 9.4/Kg; sptces seeds Tk 5.9/Kg; pulses seeds Tk 8.6/Kg; pesticides Tk 205/K9;
urea TK S/Kg; TSP Tk 5/Kg; UP TK 4/Kg; and Irrigation expenses Tb 3147/ha for present and
Tk 370/ha for 'future with project' conditions.
3/  VielOs are Shown In AN"EX 10, Table 6; paddy and wheat Tk 5.4/Kg; potato Tk 1,5/Kg; oalseeds
Tv   7.8/Kg; spices T(  4 9/Km; pulses Tk 7 1/Kn   aross m alue equals total v mlui uin pcoducts plust
value by-proaucts (10% at main products); and farm Income equals gross valu minus cash cost.
i,,ne ZS. 19b t



Table 13
flJ:      .    3atan  = ars.    hacai
T. AUN,  T. Ama,    T. han,                         Io-Cagh
inr     __;,_         -n    19A    Igeal    Coms  .             Ag 9gib.5
kaam ha            P      0.25      0.10         0.90       0.40    1.65
v        -         -          1.00       1.00    2.00
Prsductiyi Cast. ThZ
Labor              P     1,275       390        4,320      2,400    8,385    5,870         2,515
V        -         -         4,800      6,000   10,600    7,560         3,240
Bulloch            P       500       168        1,584        800    3,052    2,442           610
V        -         -         1,760      2,000    3,760    3,008           752
seedo              P        45        18          162         72      297                    297
v        -         ^           160        180      360                    360
Pesticides         P        102       -           369        164      635                    635
V        -         ^           410        410      820                    820
Fertilizer
Urea              P       18         15          675        340    1,21$                  1,218
V        -         -           750        850    1,600                  1,600
TSP               P         75       10          270        200       555                   555
U        -         -           300        500      800                    800
MP                P         15        4           54         40       113                   113
V        -         -            60        100      160                    160
Irritation         P             -                 -          -        -                      -
a             -            -                      
Total              P     2,200       605        7,434      4,016   14,255    8,312         5,943
v        -         -         8,260    10,040   18,300   10,568          7,732
Pdutign Va la 1/
Production         P       750       150        4,050      2,000    6,950
(48)          W         -         -        4,500      5,000    9,500
Value Maiu
Products         P     4,050       810       21,870    10,800   37,530
(Tk)          V         -         -       24,300    27,000   51,300
Gross Value        P     4,455       890       24,057    11,880   41,282
(Tk)          V         -         -       26,730    29,700   56,430
Farm Iucme         P                                               35,339
CM)           w                                                48,698
Note:
1/ Hired labor 30S and hired bullock 201.
2/ Labor Tk 30/manday; bullock Tk 40/day1 paddy seeds Th 6/Kg; pesticides Tk 205/K(;
ures Tk 5/K; TSP Tk 5/kg and MP Tk 4/Kg.
I/ Yields are shown in ANh 10, Table 7; paddy Tk 5.4/Kg. Gross value is the total
of value main products plus value by-products (102 of the main products); and
farm income equals gross value sinus Csh cost.
June 25, 1987



.412-
ANNEX 11
Table 1
BGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL. DkAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUi:AlRY OF FINACIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES /a
Unit             Financial             Economic
Outputs
Paddy              Ks                 5.4                    4.8
Wheat              Ks                 5.4                    6.1
Jute               Kg                 4.4                    6.8
Pulses             Kg                 1.1                    5.7 /b
Oilseeds          Ks                  7.8                    5.9 /b
Spices             Kg                 4.9                    3.7 /b
Potatoes           Kg                 1.5                    1.1 Jb
Inputs
Labor              Day                 20                     15 /c
Bullock            Pair Day            25                     20 /6
Irrigation         Ha/Yr        370-5,856              278-4,392 /t
Vrea               Kg                   5                    8.3
TSP                Kg                   5                    8.4
MP                 Kg                   4                    5.4
Pesticide          Kg                 205                  164.0 lb
Paddy Seed         Kg                   6                    5.2
When,t Seed        Kg                   6                    7.5
Jute Seed          Kg                16.5                   13.2 /b
Pulses Seed        Kg                 8.6                    6.9 /b
Oilseeds Seed      Kg                 9.4                    7.5 /b
Spice Seed         Kg                 5.9                    4.7 /b
la  In constant 1987 prices.  Currency Unit - Tk,
/b Adjusted by the SCF of 0.8.
Ie  Market wage adjusted by CF for labor of 0.75.
/d Ajusted by CF of 0.85.
Source: tPO
July 6, 1987



-113-                                     A11UA 11
Table 2
&AWGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE AND IRRICATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF INCRENNAL ECOQNIC  COSTS AND BESNEFITS
(TAKA 000)
198      198       10        1991    192       t93 1994-2012
SINSIRI IIEL
cOStS                           295.98   2914.54    3547.5   86.77    0.35       0.71     1.06
BNFITS                               -        -         -         - 4383,12  4507.61   6515.12
NET IEITS                      -295o.8  -2814.54 -7.54  -56.77  43276  450.91   6514,07
:8322322 333233322 322        X3333383  guffZXZX ~..33n 32828
LAITNI RINR
COSTS                           28658  n316.01   6730.30    444.86    0.44    0.88        1.32
=NEFITS                             -         -         -         - 5857.13  6808.72  7649.84
NET BENEFITS                   -286,58 -3316.01  -6730,30  -444W86  956.69 6807.84   768.52
.zz3 t333tn23383833=zuguig    mmg=m  nu
~~~s-  - - eA 
1A cmw
COSTS                           696.24  1984.56  2969.1   1797.998    0.07    0.14        0.21
OMNEFITS                            -         -         -         -  415,56  1342.83   2308.66
NET lKFITS                   -696.24  -1984.56 -2969,18  -1797.98   415.49  1342.70  2308.45
mz382  32zzz3 = mam,  , .zza           = _3323283323283=
BRINAR Nu  IBYL
E3STS                           672.24  5702.09  8042.58   3533,46    0.70       1.40     2.10
BENEFITS                                      -         -         - 7615.77 12154.41   7930.93
NET BEKITS                   -672.24  -5702.09  -8042.58  -3533,46  7615.07 12153,01   7928.83
3832Z522 33338 3338833  8232838  33:: 3= 333 = 3=  2azX a
POLR 55/2A
COSTS                          1233.73  12734.07  14729.03  8086.07     1.58    3.16      4.75
BENEFITS                            -         -         -         - 14854.45 15747.52  16715.38
NET BENEFITS                  -1233.73 -12734,07 -14729.03  -8086#07 14852.87 15744.36  16710.63
3323232 33=88  3833228 3222_  888228  :8823  3328SSS--
CHa   i IRRI6AIION EXtENSIO
COSTS                          1123,20  1350.38  3060.02  2803,56    0.44    0.88         1.32
BENEFiTS                             -        -         -         - 1606.72  3210.83   4960.78
NET BENEWITS                  -1123.20 -1350.38  -3060.02  -2803.56  1606.27  3209.95   4959.46
223-3-28 3388, 33322SS    3 3z22=82    838__ _______. 2S3SSSS2_
TOTAL OF SIX SEES
COSTS                          4307.86 27901.65  43898.64  22552,69    3,59    7.18    10,76
BENEFITS                             -        -         -         - 34732.74 43771.94  46080.71
NET BENEFITS                  -4307.86 -27901.65 -43888.64 -22552.69 34729.16 43764,76 46069,95
Julv 23. 1987  14:1S



* ~~~~-114- l
SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD- CONTRL. DL&flAGH AND IRRIGATION PROECT
RELTED DOCUmENT  IN PROJECT FILE
le Evaluation Studies of BU4DS Small Scale Drainage and flood Control Sub-
projects usader IDA Credit 955-BD; Draft FPinal Report; 9 Volumes;
Uaagladesh National Consultants; April-May 1987.
2. feasibility Reports for Six Subprojects; 6 Volumes; SUDS and NMCL; April
1987.
3. 'Transfer of Knowledge; Draft Proposal; MMCL; May 1987.
4. Discussion Paper for the Proposed Second SSFCD Project; 114DB and MMCL;
October 1986.
S. Teuminal Report for Small Scale Water Control Structures Program; CIDA
Project go. 170/00903-9; Draft Report; MMCL; Undated (1986).
6. Procedures and Guidelines foe Preparation of Operation and Maintenance
Manuals$ CIDA/IDA Small Scale Water Control Structures Project; MMCL;
Jana"ry 1987.
7. Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project; IDA Credit 955-SD;
Quarterly Progress teport. go. 20; January - March 1987; MHCL; April 1987.
8. Preliminary Brief Report on Damages caused by Flood during July-August,
1987; BWDB; September, 1987.



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage & Irrigation Project
Organization Structure
eaM_ ScOW Flod Control Drainag a Ifigation Wrks
Chairman SWOB
m Bpis mtatlon              MembeOCM
;  s                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
DIgut          ~~~Planning Monitoring                                                           Constructlbn
L!tj                 -~~~~~I                                                                          I 
ChlfEngnr _ _ -        Chbf Enginw _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _  Chi-f EnineCrs
FFW                                                                           Zonal
Design--froject BImlementa                                        Canadbn TechnicalC
Director ------ Projoct ODrector                              Canadian T'n Lad-- -                 - _   S  odig
Dep. Directors                        Administration                       I                                   -|  |
& Assist. Design                        and Finance         Training   Planning and    Construction
Enginors                                                    I                            IDen
115 "at,                                             Advisor (CAN)  Pa                civi           FiDE  &M
anErak    E-ng (CAN)         Engw                 DlvlSons
Ex-cutv Enginewr                  (BAN)g   Agrono and         Enginee
2                          (A)I                           I
|                        ~~~~~~~~Agronomist and  Egw
I ontAst                          Other SpoclaUsts     (SAN)
Agronomist                                 (SAN)                               Executivo
I                            ~~~ ~~~~~~~~I E-bw
Econodmst                              DE eign                                    I
Enginee (CAN)
I                      ~~~~~~~~Enginees
Assist. Engineer                             Design                                  |
4 Nos.                               Engior (SAN)                         Section Officors
TehIl Offcer                              Assist. Dsign 
2 Nos.                               Enginer (BAM)                       Work Assistants
eab/w* 123



BANGLADESH
Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage & Irrigation Project
Organization Chart
Flood Rehabiltation Works              Chairman BWD8
Mciinbw                            _                                        Member O&M
implementation 
Monitoring Co   -------                     Construction
Chief Engineer   _  _ _            Chlef Engineer         - _-- -_ _- -   Chief Engineers
Design                      Monitoring & Evaluation                            Zonal
I                                  I                                          I
Director     - - -  --- -  Project Director - -  - -_       -_- -          Superintending
Engineer
H   Administration                     |
and Finance
Section
Consultants
Design & Monitoring
Divisions
Executive Enginees                             Executiv
Dep. Directors                                                                  Engineers
& Assist. Design
Engineers                       Asst. Enineers                              Sub Divisional
Engineers
I
Section Officers
I
Work Assistants
c*0w3 1251-2



MAP SECTION



ov~~~~~5                                        90SU                             9i                               9r 
IN D I A                                  B A N G LA D EBS H
INDIA  A. ?SECOND SMALL SCALE FLOOD CONTROL,
DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
2    T Tv                  r                                                                            Locatiton of Appraised Sutbproiects          26
Primary Roads
-110  ~~~~~~~~~~~*..--Railroads
Ur ^ \ s a   p~t   , &                                         Q    N ational   C apitol
- ;   / 0 i- international Boundaries
4'Kalycnpurm
RAJSHAHI                    <; X g\Lai*ti River
GAIVG/ S   X  }       _NGAIL                         I                           )okho
Mltdtho 
I                     MOdh ,I N                    I A
2~~~~ 2prj                                a4g>4 /Jg                                            _t                                   &



PO,uh4Hudr                                           FARIDPUR                                              )*\,                                       J
pKJm ur~ jLJ Q  -4 m i dongo              S r       -   t                           E x te rns on   o f
Mow   -                                      CBngyukul
Us          } Dotdcan4i/ COM )L 1LA1 w   \ Project
Jibon#;4{0___tidb44n                        a gan                                                  CO'MILL g                          .                   S
7r -2 \5 % _8 \S47 \\'                                                                                                                                                                            23
I N    D    I A    > ;  " 
*t  |      804tb                                                                                 SItai$4~~~~~~BARSA  RANGWAT
\                                      J ~~~~~~~~~~~PATUAMALI                                       *         t  
8,. \ ~~~~~~~~~~~55 '2A  HTAO0i
0r- b*pPW_ b 
-22r et _                                   ;                                                                                                                             J     !                  22-
r ~ ~    ~     ~    ~       \\                                                    4~ -T W L  I/
of b^.4"dw                                                                                                                                                         Harbarg Chara
_ed>>_ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Pie   U
...I
. ~ * -  - Th~ W4INDIA
9-- . Bay     of          Bengal  F \/                                              r GrO
WrV                          9 - v; 
BANGLADESH
DIiKA  -
INDIA                                                                                 0   20  20 30  40  so                                                                         BURMA
C- *)                                                                                             K .  ttotw u
0
BU RMA                                                                                   9r



