 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14786

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                         Date Posted: 08/05/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P113341                                                     Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Health Professional           Project Costs (US$M):                       86.72                 71.79
                         Education Quality
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       77.82                 67.18
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Population
           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                     09/24/2009
                                                               Closing Date:      12/31/2014                    12/31/2014
         Sector(s):        Tertiary education (50%); Health (50%)
         Theme(s):         Other human development (67%); Health system performance (33%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Judyth L. Twigg            Pia Schneider           Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 4) and the Loan Agreement (p. 5), the project
    development objective was "to strengthen quality assurance policies governing the education of health
    professionals in Indonesia, through: (1) rationalizing and assuring competency-focused accreditation of public
    and private health professional training institutions; (2) developing national competency-based standards and
    testing procedures for certification and licensing of health professionals; and (3) building institutional capacity to
    employ results-based grants for encouraging the use of accreditation and certification standards in the
    development of medical school quality.

    Since the main objective is broadly formulated, this Review will assess the numbered elements of the objective
    statement, or the specific objectives that are aligned with the specific outcomes intended by the project, while
    acknowledging the contributions of the specific objectives to the broad aim of strengthening quality assurance
    policies governing the education of health professionals.

    While the project's objective was not revised, some key outcome targets were formally revised at a February
    2013 restructuring. For this reason, a split rating is performed in this Review. Per new information provided by
    the Bank team after the ICR was reviewed, at the time of restructuring, US$ 33.23 million, or 49.5% of the actual
    Bank contribution, had been disbursed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    The project initially contained four components:
   1. Strengthening policies and procedures for school accreditation (appraisal, US$ 7.18 million; actual, US$ 7.02
   million). This component was to focus on improving the accreditation system of medical, dental, nursing, and
   midwifery schools to make it comparable to internationally recognized systems. An independent body (National
   Accreditation Agency, NAA) was to be established. The project was to assist in building consensus and
   developing accreditation policies, standards, processes, and outcomes, and in piloting the new system prior to
   legalizing it for nation-wide implementation. This was to include development of an accreditation strategic
   framework, accreditation instruments, assessor system recruitment and training, and a policy mandating
   publication of accreditation results for easy access by the general public. The project was also to support the
   Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) in synchronizing data collection and analysis for accreditation
   and for EPSBED, a self-evaluated study program designed by the DGHE to monitor the statistics of higher
   education institutions.

   2. Certification of graduates using national competency-based examinations (appraisal, US$ 12.90 million;
   actual, US$ 14.61 million). This component was to support the establishment of an independent national
   evaluation center (National Agency for Competency Examination of Health Professionals, NACEHealthPro) to
   assure standards of education quality. The project was also to assist NACEHealthPro in establishing
   computer-based testing (CBT) and objective structured clinical evaluation (OSCE) facilities in about twelve
   medical schools that would function as regional centers.

   3. Results-based financial assistance packages (FAPs) for medical schools (appraisal, US$ 61.4 million; actual,
   US$ 44.68 million). This component was to allocate FAPs for selected medical schools to meet accreditation
   standards. The FAPs were to be allocated competitively according to three schemes: one for ten leading medical
   schools to build their international reputations and strengthen Indonesia's global competitiveness; one to support
   13 weak-capacity and seven new medical schools to achieve medical education standards through partnerships
   with leading medical schools; and one to support ten moderate-capacity medical schools in achieving medical
   education standards. A Board of Higher Education (BHE) was to be responsible for establishing guidelines for
   FAP recipient selection and overseeing implementation. FAP resources could be used for improving
   implementation of the competency-based curriculum, strengthening teaching/training/learning facilities, medical
   faculty development, or enhancing data management capacity.

   4. Project management (appraisal, US$ 5.24 million; actual, US$ 5.48 million). A Central Project Coordination
   Unit (CPCU) was to be established, with the project financing incremental operating costs, a project management
   consultant, office equipment and furniture, and project monitoring and evaluation.

   In February 2013, a Level II restructuring expanded Components 1 and 2 to include three additional professions:
   pharmacy, nutrition, and public health. It also expanded Component 3 to include two additional universities that
   had not been successful in the original FAP competition, but that played strategic roles in meeting basic health
   services needs in Eastern Indonesia (these were known as "affirmative FAPs"). Funds were moderately
   reallocated across components in light of these changes.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Cost: Planned total project costs were US$ 86.72 million. Actual costs were US$ 71.79 million.

   Financing: The project was financed by a Specific Investment Loan, originally planned at US$ 77.822 million.
   US$ 67.183 million was actually disbursed (86.3% of planned), with US$ 10.69 million undisbursed. The final
   disbursement level was impacted by depreciation of the rupiah and efficiency gains in the procurement of goods
   (ICR, p. 16).

   Borrower Contribution: The government's planned contribution was US$ 2.5 million, and higher education
   institutions were expected to contribute US$ 6.4 million. The actual total contribution of the government and
   higher education institutions was US$ 4.67 million.

   Dates:

        February 2013: Components were revised and funds reallocated as described above. Indicators and targets
         were revised.

        September 2014: Following a government request, funds were reallocated from Component 3 to
         Components 1 and 4, in order to support school accreditation and various evaluation and learning activities
         prior to project closing.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of Objectives is rated High under both the original and restructured project.

   The project's objectives were highly relevant to country conditions at the time of appraisal. Total availability of
   health personnel was adequate, but there were issues surrounding their quality, skill mix, and distribution. Over
   half of the country's 7,000 physicians had graduated from private schools, whose rapid expansion had not been
   accompanied by improvements in quality standards. The rate of accreditation of medical schools was relatively
   low, and only half of medical school graduates were passing national examinations. The Medical Practice Act
   (2004) had established accreditation for medical and dental schools, but there was not a comparable regulatory
   framework for nursing and midwifery education.

   The objectives are also highly relevant to Government and Bank strategy, both at appraisal and at closing.
   Strengthening the quality assurance system of health professional education was one of the priorities of the
   country's 2010-2014 health sector medium-term development plan and its 2003-2010 Higher Education
   Long-Term Strategy. The development of a workforce capable of serving Indonesia's remote areas effectively is
   also critical to the country's Health Long-Term Development Plan (2005-2025). The Bank's 2009-2012 Country
   Partnership Strategy (CPS) contained health sector objectives aiming to improve quality and coverage of health
   services, both of which are served by increasing the quality of training for health professionals, as well as a
   sectoral core engagement component with a focus on strengthening human resource capabilities through
   medical and health education. The most recent CPS (2013-2015, p. 35) contains an explicit focus on
   strengthening policies governing the education of health professionals.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design is rated Substantial under both the original and restructured project.

   The project's planned activities to assist with development of a regulatory framework for institutional
   accreditation, capacity building for accreditation processes, the development of a competency-based
   examination system, and provision of financial assistance to education institutions were logically and plausibly
   related to expected outcomes. The tiering of Financial Assistance Packages (FAP) for medical schools was
   appropriately intended to provide effective assistance to institutions at all stages of development, and the FAPs
   were also appropriately intended to garner political support from medical schools for the overall reform program.
   The ICR states that it was a "major limitation in terms of design" that the FAP grants to improve capacity to meet
   accreditation standards were to be allocated only to medical schools, even though the project was intended
   originally to target also dentistry, nursing, and midwifery, and additionally pharmacy, nutrition, and public health
   after restructuring (ICR, pp. 8, 17). The ICR (p. 8) explains this choice by noting that medical schools already
   had an incipient system of accreditation prior to the project, so that it was more cost-effective to focus only on
   them; that strengthening medical schools would incentivize other health professions to follow; that the
   investments made by medical schools on equipment and testing would also benefit other professions (for
   example, by sharing mannequins and computer stations); and that the challenges of conducting a competitive
   grant program for such a large number of schools (around 700 each for nursing and midwifery) were too large.
   These explanations do not address the fact that the project's broad objective was clearly intended to cover
   education of a wider array of health professionals. However, the project team later added that, at the time of
   project preparation, the other professional schools did not have the capacity to absorb FAP grants, and a
   follow-on project was envisaged that would have covered the other health professions with a block grant scheme;
   ultimately, this follow-on project was not possible due to changes in the country's borrowing policy that could not
   have been anticipated by the preparation team.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Rationalize and assure competency -focused accreditation of public and private health professional training
   institutions is rated Modest under the original targets and Substantial under the revised targets .

   Outputs:

        132 trained assessors are in place for medical schools, surpassing the target of 60.
        34 trained assessors are in place for dental schools, surpassing the target of 30.
        123 trained assessors are in place for nursing schools, surpassing the target of 105.
        70 trained assessors are in place for midwifery schools, not meeting the target of 105.
    17 trained assessors are in place for public health schools, not meeting the added target of 40.
    16 trained assessors are in place for nutrition schools, not meeting the added target of 40.
    41 trained assessors are in place for pharmacy schools, surpassing the added target of 40.
    The PAD and ICR provide contradictory information on the target for assessors for medical and dental
     schools. The project team later clarified the correct targets, which are listed here.

Outcomes:

    The National Accreditation Agency (NAA) was established and ratified in October 2014, with an adequate
     budget to conduct accreditation. Accreditation instruments were established and made ready for use for
     medicine, dentistry, nursing, and midwifery. There had been delays in establishing the necessary legal
     framework for the NAA, but the government implemented a task force to perform its function until it was
     officially approved.
    21 medical schools went through the accreditation process, not meeting the original target (69) or the
     revised target (29). At the time of the ICR mission (February 2015), an additional four medical schools were
     undergoing accreditation.
    9 dental schools went through the accreditation process, not meeting the original (24) or revised (10) target.
     The ICR provides contradictory information on this indicator, but the project team later clarified the correct
     information.
    81 nursing schools went through the accreditation process, not meeting the original target (250), but
     surpassing the revised target (52). The ICR provides contradictory information on this indicator, but the
     project team later clarified the correct information.
    62 midwifery schools went through the accreditation process, surpassing the original (59) and revised (33)
     target. The ICR provides contradictory information on this indicator, but the project team later clarified the
     correct information.
    Overall, 173 schools went through the accreditation process, not meeting the original target (402), but
     surpassing the revised target (124). The ICR frequently refers to these indicators as schools receiving
     accreditation, but the project team later clarified that the indicator refers to schools going through the
     accreditation process. The project team later added that, during calendar year 2015, an additional 788
     health professional schools are expected to be accredited, indicating substantial progress toward
     achievement of this objective.
    The ICR does not address why accreditation results were less successful for medical schools than for the
     other health professions, given that the bulk of the project's resources were dedicated to strengthening only
     medical schools' capacity to meet accreditation standards. The project team later clarified that this was due
     to the passing of the Medical Education Act in August 2013 that required medical schools to have one
     license covering both pre-clinical and clinical training (previously, licensing for pre-clinical and clinical
     training had been separate). License renewal under this new law was more complex and prolonged,
     resulting in delays for medical schools to start the accreditation process.

Develop national competency -based standards and testing procedures for certification and licensing of health
professionals is rated Substantial under both the original and revised targets .

Outputs:

Standards of Competencies and Education were in place for medicine and dentistry prior to the project; these
standards were added under the project for nursing, midwifery, pharmacy, and public health, with those for
nutrition expected to be completed and trials conducted in 2015.

National objective structured clinical evaluation (OSCE) trainers were put in place for medicine (4,950, far
exceeding the target of 72) and dentistry (84, exceeding the target of 72). The ICR provides no information for
pharmacy, where the target was 72, other than that the target was not met; the project team later stated that 36
trainers were put in place for pharmacy. 221 OSCE item writers were put in place for medicine, exceeding the
target of 72; 650 for dentistry, exceeding the target of 72; 48 for nursing, exceeding the target of 36; and 39 for
pharmacy, exceeding the target of 36. Targets for OSCE item writers and reviewers were not reached for
medicine and dentistry, but were surpassed for pharmacy.

254 national multiple-choice question (MCQ) writers for computer-based testing (CBT) were put in place for
medicine, 650 for dentistry, 828 for nursing, and 675 for midwifery, not meeting the target of 1,044 for each of
these professions. However, 219 national MCQ writers were put in place for pharmacy, 141 for public health, and
144 for nutrition, far exceeding the target of 36 for each of these professions. Targets for MCQ writers and
reviewers were similarly not reached for medicine, dentistry, nursing, or midwifery, but were surpassed for
pharmacy, public health, and nutrition.
Outcomes:

The independent National Agency for Competency Examination of Health Professionals (NACEHealthPro) was
legally established in December 2013, though its function as a task force under the CPCU began early in the
project period. Objective structured clinical evaluation is now used for medicine and dentistry, and is under
preparation for pharmacy, meeting the target. Computer-based testing was established for medicine, dentistry,
and nursing, meeting the target, but midwifery still uses paper-based testing.

The ICR reports the following achievement on competency tests:
  The percentage of medical school graduates passing national competency testing at the first attempt
    increased from 71.7% in 2009 to 76% in 2014, not reaching the target of 84%.
  The percentage of dental school graduates passing national competency testing at the first attempt
    increased from 81.7% in 2009 to 88% in 2014, exceeding the revised target of 83% but not the original target
    of 90%. The ICR provides contradictory information on medical and dental school graduates' testing results,
    but the project team later clarified the correct information.
  The percentage of bachelor's degree nursing school graduates passing national competency testing at the
    first attempt was 57.8% in 2014, not reaching the target of 65%. For diploma nurses (a three-year nursing
    diploma), 47.8% passed at the first attempt, not meeting the target of 65%. For midwifery school graduates,
    the percentage passing in 2014 was 64.7%, essentially meeting the target of 65%. There was no baseline
    for nursing or midwifery school graduates, as national competency testing was newly established by the
    project.

Build institutional capacity to employ results -based grants for encouraging the use of accreditation and
certification standards in the development of medical school quality is rated Substantial under both the original
and revised targets .

Outputs:

43 medical schools received financial support to strengthen their programs, exceeding the target of 42.
According to the ICR (p. 13), the two "affirmative" schools had low rates of disbursement and made "no signficant
progress" in building capacity to improve education quality. The ICR contains no further information on the
specific use of FAP resources and their relationship to resulting outcomes. The project team initially stated only
that the FAP-recipient schools used the resources as outlined in the PAD (see Section 2c). Later, the project
team also added that the FAPs supported scholarships for medical and biomedical sciences faculty to obtain 176
domestic master's degrees, 5 master's degrees abroad, 45 domestic PhD degrees, and 5 PhD degrees abroad;
23 staff exchanges and 55 student exchanges; nine visiting professorships; 87 participations in international
seminars; 337 research grants; 283 teaching grants; and 152 bachelor's degree scholarships for students.

The ICR also contains no information about the results-based nature of the grants. The project team later
confirmed that FAP resources were released in tranches, based on performance under the previous tranche with
technical results assessed by experts mobilized by the Board of Higher Education and Association of Medical
Education Institutions.

Outcomes:

The mean national competency test scores of graduates from FAP-recipient schools increased from 60.61 in
2010 to 67.07 in 2014, a 10.7% increase. Graduates from non-FAP-recipient schools achieved a 11.7% increase
(from 57.13 to 63.83) over this same time period. While the scores for FAP-recipient scores remained higher,
non-FAP-recipient schools achieved a larger percentage increase, and the levels of improvement were roughly
the same in absolute terms. (The ICR, p. 15, provides different information on these test scores, but the project
team later clarified the correct data.) The project team later provided additional information on improvements in
quality of medical education. The passing grade required for all medical school graduates (from project and
non-project schools) taking the national competency test at first attempt was increased from 51 in 2010 to 66 in
2014, indicating a significant raising of the bar for quality standards. The gap in mean test scores between
graduates of public and private medical schools supported by the project narrowed by 22% between 2010 and
2014, attributable in part to the project's deliberate support for weaker private schools. Among schools supported
by the project, the mean test scores for graduates of leading medical schools improved by 11% between 2010
and 2014, of moderate-capacity schools by 10%, and of weak-capacity schools by 13%, again in part attributable
to the project's design feature that partnered weaker with stronger schools. Overall, because the length of
medical training (5.5 years) is longer than the project period, the full impact of the FAP grants will take additional
years beyond the project's lifetime to be realized.

According to the ICR (p. 18), some students reported that their schools focused more on providing short-term
    training for students to take these competency tests than on implementing meaningful curriculum changes. Also,
    some schools were reported to be selecting students to take the competency exams based on their likely pass
    rates. However, the project team stressed that these statements are based on limited anecdotal information, not
    on a systematic assessment, and are intended only to mark these issues for further monitoring.

5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Substantial.

    The PAD (pp. 13-14, 60-68) used Monte Carlo simulation methods to generate a distribution of anticipated total
    benefits, at the national level, to compare with costs. This approach employed reasonable, conservative
    assumptions. It yielded an estimated net present value of US$ 68.9 million over five years, and a gross
    benefit-cost ratio of 5.53.

    The ICR (pp. 29-32) employs a similarly conservative approach in terms of impacts and timeline for results,
    linking improved quality of training to improved quality of care over a practitioner's career and therefore improved
    health outcomes. It appropriately suggests only modest gains in quality of care, considers only dimensions of
    health improvement that are relatively easily monetized, and assumes only a five-year time horizon. The
    discounted total benefits are estimated at US$ 838.3 million, resulting in a benefit-cost ratio of 10.77.

    Although there were early implementation delays associated with changes in the structure of government
    ministries, delays in the approval of government budgets, and challenges surrounding the consensus-building
    and approval processes for the legal frameworks governing accreditation and competency exams, stakeholders
    remained engaged and the majority of planned project activities were implemented by project closing. The ICR
    (p. 16) reports that there were also gains from efficient procurement of goods, including computers for CBT and
    mannequins for OSCE, though it does not provide specific evidence of these gains. It is not clear how these
    gains occurred simultaneously with the project's overall procurement challenges (see Section 11b).

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                          No
    ICR estimate                       No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Under the original targets: Relevance of Objectives is rated High, with the objectives highly relevant to country
    conditions, Bank strategy, and Government strategy. Relevance of Design is rated Substantial, with planned
    activities logically and plausibly linked to intended outcomes. The objective to rationalize and assure
    competency-focused accreditation of public and private health professional training institutions is rated
    Modest, as targets for schools undergoing accreditation processes were not met. The objective to develop
    national competency-based standards and testing procedures for certification and licensing of health
    professionals is rated Substantial, as OSCE and CBT were put in place for medicine, dentistry, nursing, and
    midwifery. The objective to build institutional capacity to employ results-based grants for encouraging the use of
    accreditation and certification standards in the development of medical school quality is rated Substantial, with
    student test scores indicative of improvements in the quality of medical education and plausible linkages between
    FAP-financed activities and these outcomes. Efficiency was Substantial, with a benefit-to-cost ratio at closing
    over twice that at appraisal, and significant gains through cost-effective procurement of computers and other
    equipment. These ratings are indicative of minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation,
    and therefore an Outcome rating of Satisfactory.

    Under the revised targets: Relevance of Objectives, Relevance of Design, and Efficiency are the same as under
    the original targets. However, the downward revision of targets for institutional accreditation processes renders
    the achievement of the first objective Substantial, while the ratings for the other two objectives remain also
    Substantial. These ratings also indicate minor shortcomings, and therefore an Outcome rating of Satisfactory.

    The final Outcome rating is therefore Satisfactory.
a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The legal framework, processes, instruments, manuals, training materials, and modules required to implement
   accreditation and competency-based examination are firmly in place, and are slated by the Ministry of Health to
   be applied to additional health professions (ICR, p. 12). The project's information management system will
   continue to serve the accreditation and examination agencies. The project increased the level and depth of
   collaboration between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education.
   However, the project provided direct benefits for only a subset of schools even within the seven professions it
   covered. Scaling up the accreditation and examination effort to cover all health professional schools will require
   the development of additional accreditation instruments, expansion of training of assessors and validators,
   measures to ensure the financial and operational sustainability of the accrediting and examining agencies, and
   monitoring of the impact of the new systems on the labor market for health professionals.

   Financial risk to the examination process is relatively small, as professional associations and students cover
   most costs. But funding for the accreditation body is not stable, and according to the ICR (p. 19), government
   support will be needed beyond 2015. Changes in government may impact political and consequently financial
   support. Both agencies face challenges in recruiting staff with appropriate qualifications in health education.
   Finally, there is institutional risk that schools will continue to pursue opportunistic behavior by focusing on training
   students specifically for competency exams rather than strengthening their overall curricula.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   Project preparation took into account lessons learned from previous higher education projects in the country,
   including the difficulties in linking financial assistance investments to outcomes, limited utility of financial
   assistance to support improvements in teaching and learning quality, challenges in maintaining transparency
   and avoiding conflicts of interest, and the risk of slow disbursements due to weaknesses in management
   arrangements for financial assistance (PAD, p. 6). Risk assessment was careful and mitigation measures
   sufficient, with the only high or substantial risk being FAP recipients' lack of familiarity with Bank procurement
   guidelines (PAD, pp. 11-12). Analytical work included a stakeholder analysis to map key actors, their
   interests, and potential courses of action (ICR, p. 8); this was particularly important in the Indonesian context,
   where the private-for-profit sector had been dominant and the process of reforming the accreditation and
   certification systems highly politically charged. Experts from both the health and education sector were
   engaged. M&E design was strong (see Section 10a).

   A Quality Enhancement Review in May 2009 raised issues regarding variance among recipient schools'
   institutional capacity and incentives to use the FAP grants; these issues were to be addressed through
   partnering stronger with weaker schools. Also, according to the Borrower's ICR (p. 37), project preparation
   did not anticipate the need to implement two legislative acts (Higher Education Act No. 12/2012 and Medical
   Education Act No. 20/2013), which significantly impacted project timing and execution; the project team later
   stressed that project design could not have anticipated the length and depth of the debates within the
   Parliament and related cases brought to the Supreme Court.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   There were only two Task Team Leaders across the entire project, and they were based full-time in Jakarta
   for the project's entire duration. Appropriate specialists were consulted throughout. Challenges were
   addressed as they surfaced, including the delays in channeling of government resources to the DGHE, the
   lengthy process for establishing the legal basis for accreditation and examination agencies, and the
   complexities of managing disparate government and non-governmental entities. The discussion of
   modification of targets at the mid-term review appropriately recognized the impact of those challenges.
  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The government demonstrated strong commitment and ownership throughout the project, engaging multiple
    ministries in the process of developing the accreditation and testing systems even across successive
    administrations. Implementation challenges resulted from the change of the ministry structure from the
    Ministry of National Education to the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2011; delays in the transfer of
    resources from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Education and Culture due to delays in approval of
    the budget; and a lengthy process for building consensus around and finalizing the legal framework for the
    functioning of the NAA and NACEHealthPro. The government compensated for these difficulties by
    implementing two task forces to exercise the functions of the two agencies until the necessary legal
    frameworks were in place, highlighting the level of importance the government assigned to project activities.


  Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Directorate General of Higher Education was the project's main implementing agency. A project steering
    committee with cross-agency representation was functional throughout implementation. Project
    Implementation Units (PIUs) were established at each university prior to the signing of a FAP contract to
    support implementation and administration. Although limited by scarce human resources, the DGHE was
    able to implement and monitor the project in a satisfactory manner, with particular skill in building consensus
    and sustaining engagement among disparate entities with often conflicting views. However, the performance
    of the PIUs varied considerably from school to school, particularly concerning the mandated partnerships
    between stronger and weaker schools. There were challenges with financial management and procurement;
    these were effectively addressed by the CPCU (see Section 11b).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The PAD (pp. 22-28) contained a detailed results framework, with PDO-level and intermediate outcome
   indicators clearly linked to the project's objectives. An implementation timeline with complete baselines and
   targets was established. Arrangements for results monitoring were appropriately detailed, with a different agency
   responsible for collecting and reporting data for each component, and the CPCU in charge of overall M&E.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The CPCU provided consistent and updated information on implementation progress. A Database for Health
   Higher Education monitored the number of schools going through the accreditation process and the number of
   students taking and passing CBT. FAP-funded schools recorded progress on their individual websites, and the
   CPCU regularly sent teams of experts to monitor the schools' technical and managerial progress.

c. M&E Utilization:
    According to the ICR (p. 10), the M&E framework allowed monitoring of identified risks and enabled action to
    respond to those risks. No specific examples are provided.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was rated Category C. No safeguard policies were triggered (PAD, p. 16).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management was strong during the early period of the project. After it was determined that FAP
    recipients varied widely in their capacities for financial and procurement management, the CPCU mapped
    implementation capacity of the grantees and provided support based on each specific need (ICR, p. 11). Later in
    the project, moderate financial management challenges were encountered in several areas: challenges in
    recruiting qualified financial management consultants; delays in submission of financial management reports;
    delayed audit follow-up; and uncorrected disbursement discrepancies between Bank and project records.

    Procurement challenges resulted primarily from FAP recipient schools' varying capacities to implement
    procurement packages, resulting in delays. As a result, the project management consultant was replaced with a
    procurement consultant, the CPCU mapped grantee capacity, and procurement monitoring was enhanced,
    improving disbursement rates.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    According to the ICR (p. 18), quality assurance systems developed for higher education are now being
    considered for use as models for other fields, including engineering.

    The project helped to establish a network of associations of health professionals, professional schools,
    government entities, students, and broader civil society in the health field.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        The performance of Project
                                                            Satisfactory      Implementation Units varied
                                                                              considerably among medical schools
                                                                              receiving FAP grants.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (pp. 23-24) provides several lessons, adapted here:

    Strong collaboration between government and non-government entities is essential for higher education reform
     processes. In this case, involvement and commitment of professional associations and associations of
     professional schools was key to the development and ratification of accreditation and examination standards
     and processes.

    When providing incentive grants, variation in interest and capacity must be taken into account. In this case,
     there were significant differences in participation, disbursement, and results among FAP-recipient medical
     schools because these factors were not adequately considered.

    A country's legislative environment will strongly govern efforts to introduce new accreditation and examination
     standards, and legislative approval can be a lengthy and challenging process. Adequate political economy
     analysis is essential for understanding these processes, and a project's timeline should taken them into
     account.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No

Why? To verify data, and to learn lessons from the project's consolidation of stakeholder support for a politically
challenging reform and from the transfer of skills from the supported medical schools to other health professional
schools.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR is concise and clear, and for the most part it follows OPCS guidelines. However, it contains numerous
     data discrepancies and omissions. In many instances, different values are reported in different places for the
     same indicator. The ICR is also unclear about the timing and nature of revision of key outcome targets, including
     the level of disbursements at the time of restructuring. The ICR does not address key analytical issues, most
     importantly the reasons for the failure of medical schools to meet targets for undergoing accreditation processes,
     and very little information is provided on the specific use of FAP resources. Lessons are framed as summaries of
     the project's experience, rather than as lessons potentially applicable to future projects. Most importantly, the
     project team later added important information that was essential to a fair and accurate assessment of the
     project; this information was available at the time the ICR was written and should have been included.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
