THE WORLD BANK I BANK DUNIA                                   O                   /JI     7  3 7
Sharing Development Solutions                                 O   FCA
for an Emerging Indonesia                                  WOCUMENTS
Letter No. CD-08 I /HPEQ/III/2013                                     March 27, 2013
Mr. Robert Pakpahan
Expert Staff of Minister of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as Director General of Debt Management
Ministry of Finance
Gedung Frans Seda
Jalan Dr. Wahidin No. 1
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Dear Mr. Pakpahan:
Re: Health Professional Education Quality Project
Loan No. 7737-ID; Amendment No. I
I refer to the loan agreement ("Loan Agreement"), dated October 1, 2009, between the Republic
of Indonesia (the "Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
"Bank") for the Health Professional Education Quality Project (the "Project").
I refer also to your letter dated December 20, 2012, requesting: (a) amendments of the Loan
Agreement to: (i) expand the activities to include three additional professions; (ii) reallocate the proceeds
of the Loan; (iii) update the reference to the national regulation on procurement for the clarifications
relating to National Competitive Bidding Procedures; and (iv) update the definitions to reflect changes
related to the expansion of activities; and (b) revision to the performance indicators. After due
consideration, the Bank concurs with this request, and accordingly the Loan Agreement is hereby
amended as set out below and the performance indicators are revised as set out in the revised
Supplemental Letter.
1.     Paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3 of Part 1, and paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2 of Part 2, of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement are amended to include three additional professions as set out below (amended language is
italicized for ease of reference):
"Part 1. Strengthening Policies and Procedures for School Accreditation.
1.2    Development of Standards of Health Education programs and Standards of
Competency by: (a) supporting DGHE in: (i) developing competence and education
standards for nursing, midwifery. pharmacy, nutrition and public health: (ii) harmonizing
standards of competence for doctors, dentists, nurses, midwives, pharmacists,
nutritionists, and public health specialists; (iii) establishing a certification system for
clinical instructors; (iv) developing guidelines for clinical instructor training; (v)
establishing standards for teaching hospitals and other clinical training sites; and (vi)
supporting a national medical education research and development function among
Associations of Health Higher Education Institutions; and (b) (i) supporting Associations
of Health Higher Education Institutions in applying the established standards of
competency among members; and (ii) supporting AIPKI (one of the Associations of
Health Higher Education Institutions) in managing Research Programs for individuals
and/or groups on health education and standards of competency.
ISEB Tower 2, 121 Floor, JI. Jend. Sudirman Kay. 52-53, Jakarta 12190  S+6221 5299 3000  0 +6221 5299 3111  O www.worldbank.org/id


﻿Mr. Robert Pakpahan                       2 -                                March 27, 2013
1.3    Development of Accreditation Instruments by supporting BAN-PT and NAA
(following its establishment) to develop, pilot and disseminate accreditation instruments
for medical, dental, nursing, midwifery, pharmacy. nutrition, and public health education
through a stakeholder participatory process.
1.4    ...
Part 2. Certification of Graduates Using National Competency-based Examination.
2.1    Establishing an Independent National Agency for Competence Examination of
Health Professionals through supporting DGHE in: (a) developing the concept for,
establishing and supporting the operation and management of an independent
examination body (NACE HealthPro) to cover medical, dental, nursing, midwifery,
pharmacy, nutrition, and public health graduate examinations; and (b) supporting NACE
HealthPro in managing Research Programs for Health Higher Education Institutions
and/or individuals therein to conduct policy studies on evaluation.
2.2    Improving Methodology and Management of the National Competence Examination
through supporting NACE HealthPro (following its establishment in developing a
computer-based examination system and an objective structured clinical examination
system for medical, dental, nursing, midwifery, pharmacy, nutrition, and public health
examinations, and introducing and operating such systems in approximately twelve (12)
pilot centers at selected Health Higher Education Institutions.
2.3
2.     The Bank has reallocated the proceeds of the Loan allocated in the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement as set out below:
Category*                 Amount of the Loan         Percentage of
Allocated          Expenditures to be
(expressed in USD)          financed
(Inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Training and workshops, incremental     8,335,304                 100%
operating costs, research expenditures
consultants services and goods under
Part 1 of the Project
(2) Training and workshops, incremental    14,046,934                 100%
operating costs, research
expenditures, consultants services and
goods under Part 2 of the Project
(3) FAPs for Sub-projects under Part 3 of  51,300,762                 100%
the Project
(4) Training and workshops, incremental     4,139,000       1         100%
operating costs, consultants services
and goods under Part 4 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT                               77,822,000
ISEB Tower 2, 12th Floor, JI. Jend. Sudirman Kay. 52-53, Jakarta 12190 gt+6221 5299 3000 a8+6221 5299 3111 o www.worldbank.org/id


﻿Mr. Robert Pakpahan                    - 3 -                                March 27, 2013
3.     Attachment 3 to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is hereby replaced with the revised
Attachment 3 as set out in the Annex to this letter to update the reference to national regulation on
procurement.
4.     Additionally, paragraphs 3, 17, 24, and 30 of Section I of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement is
hereby amended to reflect changes related to the expansion of activities as set out below (amended
language is italicized for ease of reference):
"3.    "Associations of Health Higher Education Institutions" means any one of the following
associations of health-related professional institutions in Indonesia: the Association of Indonesian
Medical Schools (AIPKI); the Association of Indonesian Dental Schools (AFDOKGI), the
Association of Indonesian Midwifery Schools (AIPKIND); the Association of Indonesian
Nursing Schools (AIPNI); the Association of Indonesian Vocational Nursing Schools (AIPDIKI);
the Association of Indonesian Pharmacy Schools (APTFI); the Association of Indonesian
Nutrition Schools (AIPGI); the Association of Indonesian Public Health Schools (AIPTKMI); and
the Association of Teaching Hospitals of Indonesia (ARSPI); and any successor to each thereof;
and "Associations of Health Higher Education Institutions" means more than one Association of
Health Higher Education Institutions.
17.    "Health Higher Education Institution" means an institution providing medical, nursing,
dentistry, midwifery, pharmacy, nutrition and public health higher education under the regulation
of MONE; and "Health Higher Education Institutions" means more than one Health Higher
Education Institution.
24.    "NACE HealthPro" means the National Agency for Competency Examination of Health
Professionals, or as it may otherwise be named upon its establishment, to be established as an
independent examination body to cover medical, dental, nursing, midwifery, pharmacy, nutrition,
and public health graduate examinations under Part 2.1 of the Project.
30.    "Professional Association" means any one of the Indonesia Midwives Association (BI),
the Indonesia Medical Association (IDI), the Indonesia Nurses Association (PPNI), the Indonesia
Dentists Association (PDGI), the Indonesia Pharmacisty Association (JAI), the Indonesia
Nutritionists Association (PERSAGl), the Indonesia Public Health Expert Association (IAKMI)
and any successor to each thereof; and "Professional Associations" means more than one
Professional Association."
Except as specifically set out in this letter, all terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement remain
unchanged.
ISEB Tower 2, 12th Floor, JI. Jend. Sudirman Kay. 52-53, Jakarta 12190  gi+6221 5299 3000  6+6221 5299 3111  O www.worldbank.org/id


﻿Mr. Robert Pakpahan                     -4-                                  March 27, 2013
The Bank will disclose this letter agreement and related information on this Loan in accordance
with the World Bank Policy on Access to Information. By entering into this agreement, the Borrower
consents to disclosure of this agreement and related information on this Loan.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating both enclosed copies of
this letter in the space provided and returning one signed copy to us. The above amendment will become
effective as of the date of the later date of countersignature of this letter by the Borrower.
Sincerely yours,
Josephin       s inette
Acting Countr Director, Indonesia
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By:                                             Date:          Ae        2013
Name: Robert Pakpahan              A
Title: Expert Staff of Minister
of Finance on State Revenue
With Full Mandate as
Director General of Debt Management
ISEB Tower 2, 12th Floor, JI. Jend. Sudirman Kay. 52-53, Jakarta 12190 8 +6221 5299 3000 * +6221 5299 3111 O www.worldbank.org/id


﻿Mr. Robert Pakpahan                      - 5 -                                March 27, 2013
ANNEX
Attachment 3 to Schedule 2
National Competitive Bidding: Modifications to Procedures
The procedures applicable to the procurement of goods. works, and non-consulting services under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding shall be those of the Pelelangan Umum
(Public Tendering) and Pemilihan Langsung / Pelelangan Sederhana (Simplified Tendering) methods as
set forth in the Borrower's Presidential Regulation No. 54/2010, with the modifications set out below in
order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines, pursuant to paragraph 3.3 of said Guidelines. The Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method shall apply to such procurement up to the financial thresholds specified in
said Regulation. In the event of a conflict between the Borrower's procedures and these modifications,
the latter shall govern.
1.  Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank. The provisions of Section 1.14 (Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement Guidelines
shall apply, and each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
include provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in paragraph 1.14(a) of
said Guidelines and the contract provisions set out in paragraph 1. 14(e) of said Guidelines.
2.  Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign
firm determined to be the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable time for
registration. Foreign bidders shall not be required to form a joint venture or sub-contract part of the
supply of goods, non-consulting services, and works as a condition for submitting bids or the award
of the contract. Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all international
bidders who are willing to pay the required fee.
3.  No preference of any kind shall be given to any bidders.
4.  Under the Pelelangan 1hnum method, bidders shall be allowed at least twenty-one (21) days from
the date of the invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later, to
prepare and submit bids; this period shall be ten (10) days under the Pemilihan Langsung /
Pelelangan Sederhana method.
5.  Bids invited under the Pelelangan Umum method shall be submitted in one (1) envelope and
evaluated using post-qualification.
6.  No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate and
budget ceiling without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
7.  Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or guarantee from a
reputable bank or other reputable financial institution and shall without exception follow the form
provided for this purpose in the bidding documents.
8.  All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior written concurrence.
9.  Government-owned enterprises in Indonesia shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they
can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and
are not dependent agencies of the Borrower or sub-borrower.
ISEB Tower 2,12th Floor, JI. Jend. Sudirman Kay. 52-53, Jakarta 12190  2+6221 5299 3000  * +6221 5299 3111  O www.worldbank.org/id


