Report No. PIC4383
Project Name                   Algeria-Rural Employment Project (@)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Rural Development
Project ID                     DZPA43724
Borrower                       Government of Algeria
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MOAF)
Contact: Mr. Abdallah Ghebalou, Director
General
General Directorate of Forestry
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
12, Boulevard Amirouche
Algiers, Algeria
Tel: (213-2) 61 48 51
Fax: (213-2) 74 80 14 or 74 80 19
Date initial PID prepared      September 1996
Date this update prepared      December 1996
Proposed Appraisal Date        December 1996
Projected Board Date           March 1997
1.   Background. Algeria has been implementing a macroeconomic reform
and structural adjustment program since 1994. Agricultural reform
measures had actually started in 1987 with the transformation of the
socialist state farms into smaller collective and individual farms.
Agricultural price and trade liberalization have figured prominently in
economic reforms.
2.   Financed by its oil wealth, Algeria had chosen a public enterprise-
led, capital intensive industrialization strategy. However, the expected
benefits of this policy did not materialize due, amongst other things,
to lack of competitiveness. As a result, the State, through the
administration and the public enterprises, employed more than half of
the active population in the early 1990s. Even under these
circumstances, the limits to labor absorption resulted in official
unemployment rates of over 20 percent. Rural unemployment rates were
considerably higher at around 26 percent and this situation was
aggravated by underemployment in agriculture. The situation has now been
further accentuated by two factors: (i) economic reforms have led to
increased unemployment as the economy has had to adjust to a market
environment; and (ii) the increased problems of security in urban
agglomerations have led to a reverse migration towards rural areas. As
a consequence, the Government now gives high priority to addressing the
problems of unemployment and underemployment in rural areas and
agriculture.
3.   Project Objectives. The project objective is to promote rural
employment through asset creation, natural resource management and



protection of the environment, with the purpose of increasing labor
productivity in a sustainable manner. This project would also be the
first phase of a broader set of activities with similar objectives in
the long run. It would provide a model and laboratory for developing
experience in community involvement in rural development.
4.   Project Description. Project operations would include labor-
intensive civil works activities in rural areas, focusing on
agricultural infrastructure, especially maintenance of existing
infrastructure, and environmental protection activities and structures
on public land and on farmers' fields. The project would target areas of
high rural unemployment in four wilaya in NW Algeria, namely, Tlemcen,
Ain Temouchent, Sidi bel Abbes and Mascara. The project zones include
communes in the perimeters of Mont de Tlemcen, Monts de Traras, Sbaa
Chioukh, Tessala, Cheurfa II and Monts de Beni-Chougrane. The Project
would use nondiscriminatory hiring practices, especially involving
women. Specific activities include:
erosion control measures including afforestation, reforestation,
and flood control structures; these activities were chosen because of
two principal reasons: (i) they are amenable to labor-intensive
techniques and hence conducive to significant employment creation; and
(ii) they involve significant environmental externalities, thus
justifying public investments as public goods;
agricultural development interventions comprising on-farm land
improvement through destoning, windbreaks, and fruit trees and
grapevines on sloped land to replace cereal monoculture, and maintenance
and opening of rural roads to integrate populations into a larger
economic area (desenclavement); the on-farm activities are also labor-
intensive with direct benefits to the populations in the project area
and they also create externalities in reducing erosion;
small-scale water resource mobilization through hill reservoirs
(retenues collinaires), wells and springs; water availability was
expressed by the populations in the project area to be of high priority
and these activities have been maintained due to the potential indirect
effects they can have on health, welfare and production;
activities targeting disadvantaged women with limited income
sources, such as widows, divorcees, landless women, etc., through
handicraft workshops, family gardens, apiculture, etc.;
institutional development which will emphasize capacity development
in the decentralized rural organization of the implementation agency,
the General Directorate of Forestry (DGF); this component includes
vehicles (4WD vehicles, mobylettes and spare parts) and office equipment
(computers, printers, etc.), and significant training activities; and
(f) resources: (i) to ensure independent audits for accelerated
disbursements through the 90-day advance option for the Special
Account; and (ii) for independent consultants to monitor project
performance.
5.   Project Implementation. The project would be implemented by the
- 2-



General Directorate of Forestry (DGF) in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MOAF). Project activities would be executed mainly by local
private and public enterprises through competitive processes. Project
design would give priority to labor intensive activities.
6.   Project Cost and Financing.   Total project cost is currently
estimated at US$123.6 million, with a Bank loan placed at US$89 million.
7.   Project Sustainability. The success and sustainability of the
project would depend on three factors. First, the focus would have to be
on asset creation which would increase labor productivity rather than
social transfers. Second, strong support and participation of the local
population in the project would be needed. Third, consistent employment
policies would need to be implemented in non-agricultural sectors,
especially in industry.
8.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The country strategy for Algeria
has identified rural employment as a high priority issue. The Bank
concurs with the Government in the urgency of addressing the problem of
rural unemployment to address rural poverty. The Bank has also approved
a Social Safety Net Project which has utilized a similar approach of
asset creation, and this project will complement that effort.
9.   Environmental Aspects. The proposed project has an environmental
rating of B. Please see attached Annex.
10. Project Benefits. The project would be expected to have positive
effects on short term employment creation as well as longer term
employment through asset creation. The focus on rectifying local
agroecological problems would have positive environmental effects. The
involvement of the private and public enterprises in project
implementation would increase local capacity.
Contact Point:      Mr. K. Somel, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-2499
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 21, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The Project would have positive environmental effects as
environmental infrastructures such as retenues collinaires, windbreaks,
etc., would be maintained, rehabilitated or constructed, and
afforestation and reforestation would take place on farmers' fields and
public land. Erosion control would be a critical activity. Prior
technical studies including environmental impact assessment would be
required for investments in water resource mobilization and rural roads.
Monitoring environmental effects would be part of project
implementation. The proposed project has an environmental rating of B.
- 4 -



