Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4143 AL
Loan Agreement
(Rural Employment Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4143 AL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 1997, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
Page  2
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"BAD" means Banque Algerienne de Développement, the Borrower’s Algerian 
Development Bank, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"Banque d’Algérie" means the Bank of Algeria, the Borrower’s central 
bank, operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"DGF" means Direction Générale des Forêts, the General Directorate of 
Forests within MOAF (as this term is hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing on January 
1 and ending on December 31;
(e)
"MOAF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries;
(f)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to under paragraph A.2 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Project Area" means the Wilayas (as this term is hereinafter defined) of 
Tlemcen, Sidi Bel Abbes, Mascara and Ain Temouchent;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Sub-project" means the construction or rehabilitation of one or more 
rural roads, to be carried out under Part B (iii) of the Project, or the construction 
or rehabilitation of infrastructure for purposes of mobilizing water resources, to be 
Page  3
carried out under Part C of the Project; 
(j)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Wilaya Law (Loi Relative à la Wilaya), No. 90-09, dated 
April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from time to time; and
(k)
"WUA" means a water user association established pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph C.1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eighty nine million dollars 
($89,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d’Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period. 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section. 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  4
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter." 
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year." 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. BAD is designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, agricultural and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Page  5
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is  
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
  REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ M. Ramtane Lamamra 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kemal Dervis 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
    85,150,000
80%
(2)
Goods
700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally 
(3)
Consultants’ services
     2,690,000
100%
and training
(4)
Unallocated
460,000
    89,000,000  
TOTAL
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
Page  7
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million nine 
hundred thousand dollars ($8,900,000), may be made in respect of Categories (2) and 
(3) on account of payments made for expenditures before the date of this Agreement but 
after January 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods not 
exceeding the equivalent of $350,000; (b) works not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000; (c) services of consulting firms not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000; 
and (d) services of individual consultants not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to generate rural employment and alleviate rural 
poverty in a sustainable manner through asset creation to increase agricultural labor 
productivity in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Erosion Control
Implementation of a labor intensive erosion control program consisting, inter 
alia, of the rehabilitation of degraded forest cover, the stabilization of water 
course banks and the construction of flood control structures.
Part B:
Agricultural Development
Implementation of an agricultural development program consisting, inter alia, of 
(i) land improvement measures; (ii)  the planting of indigenous fruit trees, 
grapevines and windbreaks; and (iii) the construction and rehabilitation of rural 
roads to contribute to the reduction of economic and social isolation.
Part C:
Water Resource Mobilization
Implementation of a water resource mobilization program consisting, inter alia, 
of (i) the construction of hill ponds; (ii) the drilling and equipping of water wells; 
and (iii) the rehabilitation of springs to increase the availability of water for 
household consumption, irrigation and livestock.
Part D:
Economically Disadvantaged Women
Implementation of a training program aimed at upgrading the agricultural and 
artisanal skills of economically disadvantaged women in the Project Area. 
Part E:
Institutional Development
Implementation of a program consisting of the provision to DGF of goods, staff 
training and expert services to strengthen DGF’s institutional capabilities.
Part F:
Project Management Support
Support to DGF and PMU, through, inter alia, the preparation of studies and the 
provision of goods and expert services, to ensure effective monitoring of the 
implementation of the Project.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  8
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 2002
through September 1, 2013
3,710,000
And on March 1, 2014
3,670,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03. 
Premiums on Prepayment 
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below. 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate 
(expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on 
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18 
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35 
not more than six years 
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65 
not more than eleven 
years before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88 
more than fifteen years 
Page  9
before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00 
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Said contracts shall include 
modalities that ensure the use of labor-intensive techniques.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of  paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule; (ii) the first two contracts for goods 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this Schedule; (iii) the 
Page  10
first two contracts for works procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 
(b) of this Schedule; and (iv) each contract for works, other than the two (2) 
contracts referred to under sub-paragraph (iii) above, procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.1 (b) of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation, Management and Coordination 
1.
The Borrower shall vest DGF with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. 
2.
In order to ensure proper management and coordination of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain PMU, within DGF, with professional staffing in adequate 
number, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
PMU shall be responsible, inter alia, for coordinating the implementation of the 
Project and for the procurement and disbursement processes thereunder, including 
responsibility for the maintenance of the Project’s accounts. 
B.
Part B (iii) of the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that no Sub-project under Part B (iii) of the Project 
shall be carried out unless the Bank shall have first received evidence satisfactory 
to the Bank that a technical study in connection with such Sub-project, together with 
an environmental impact assessment pertaining thereto, have been prepared in 
accordance with guidelines agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank. 
C.
Part C of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that no Sub-project under Part C of the Project shall 
be carried out unless the Bank shall have first received evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that (a) a technical study in connection with such Sub-project, together with an 
environmental impact assessment pertaining thereto, have been prepared in accordance 
with guidelines agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank; and (b) a WUA has been 
established, in accordance with the Borrower’s legislation governing the establishment 
of associations, to use, operate and maintain the infrastructure and systems referred 
to under paragraph C.2 of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) months following the establishment of 
a WUA in accordance with the provisions of paragraph C.1 (b) of this Schedule, enter 
into, and thereafter maintain in effect, an agreement pursuant to which the Borrower 
shall grant a concession to the WUA which shall enable the WUA to use, operate and 
maintain all of the water mobilization infrastructure, together with the water supply 
and distribution systems, located in the area under the control of the WUA. 
D.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Bank (i) not later than thirty (30) days 
following the end of each quarter until completion of the Project, commencing December 
31, 1997, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) not later than September 30, 
1998, or such later date as the Bank shall request, a mid-term report integrating (x) 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, and (y) any action on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Project during the period preceding the date of said mid-term report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
not later than December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, complete the review of the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (ii) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said mid-term report and the Bank’s views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement set forth in said 
table in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
Page  12
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  13
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions
