Page  1
July 23, 2001
H.E. Mourad Medelci
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance 
Algiers
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
Re:
Loan No. 4143-AL
(Rural Employment Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement") relating to the Rural 
Employment Project (the "Project") between the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria 
(the "Borrower") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
"Bank"), dated April 17, 1997, as amended. We also refer to your letter dated November 
28, 2000 (MF/DGRFE No. 1541) requesting an extension of the Project to the Wilayas of 
Relizane and Mostaganem.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has, after due consideration, acceded 
to your request. Therefore, by the present, the Loan Agreement is hereby amended 
specifically as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
"(g)
"Project Area" means the Wilayas (as this term is hereinafter defined) of 
Tlemcen, Sidi Bel Abbes, Mascara, Ain Temouchent, Relizane and Mostaganem;".
2.
The date set forth in Section 2.03 is modified to read "March 31, 2005".
3.
The date set forth in the ultimate sentence appearing at the bottom of Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement is modified to read "September 30, 2004".
All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement that have not been amended 
hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Amendment Letter and returning it to the 
Bank. This Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date it has been fully 
executed by each party thereto.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marisa Fernandez-Palacios
Acting Country Director
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Mourad Medelci
Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date:
August 18. 2001
