 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14811

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 09/25/2015

                 Country: Mauritius
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                 2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                 2
             Series ID: S128140
       First Project ID : P125694                                                Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Mauritius First Public      Project Costs (US$M):                      20.0                  20.0
                          Sector Performance
                          Development Policy
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       20.0                  20.0
      Sector Board:       Social Protection        Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/27/2012
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2012          12/31/2012
           Sector(s):    General  industry  and trade sector (38%); Other social services (25%); Central government
                         administration (25%); Secondary education (12%)
          Theme(s):      State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (25%); Administrative and civil service
                         reform (25%); Social safety nets (25%); e-Services (13%); Education for all (12%)
     Second Project ID :P128140                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name:   Mu  -second   Public        Project Costs (US$M):                    20.0                 20.0
                         Sector Performance
                         Dpl
 L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                    20.0                 20.0
       Sector Board:     Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                 03/27/2013
            Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:            06/10/2014          06/10/2014
           Sector(s):    Other  domestic  and international trade (38%), Central government  administration (25%),
                         Other social services (25%), Vocational training (12%)
          Theme(s):      Trade facilitation and market access (38%), Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (25%),
                         Education for the knowledge economy (13%), Public expenditure, financial management and
                         procurement (12%), Administrative and civil service reform (12%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof     Robert Mark Lacey        Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Development Objective, as set out in the Program Document for the first DPL (Program Document, PD, p.
    21) was to support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
    government to implement the following three reform pillars: (i) strengthening services to support and empower
    the most vulnerable; (ii) streamlining trade regulations and processes; and (iii) improving human resource
    management in the civil service and the monitoring of SOE [state-owned enterprises] performance.
    No statement of objectives was included in the Financing Agreement.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    There are three policy areas supported by the two DPLs.

    1. Strengthening services to support and empower the most vulnerable by means of a better targeted and more
    cost effective social protection system; and better education outcomes, especially for the poorest households.

    (a) Social protection

    In moving towards its medium-term objective of a more efficient and effective safety net, the initial focus of the
    Government has been on reforming targeted programs, while leaving any reform of untargeted subsidies and
    benefits for later as being politically difficult in the short term (ICR p. 17). The main measures included (i) a
    restructuring of the National Empowerment Foundation ( NEF) into four functional pillars - child and family
    development; community empowerment; placement and training; and entrepreneurship - within one coordinated
    structure; and (ii) development of an integrated management information system – the social registry, to be used
    by social protection programs.

    Prior actions and triggers:

         Issuance of a new organizational and staffing chart for the NEF, an agency that provides an array of
          services to facilitate entry onto the labor market, as well as community development and housing support,
          targeted at poor areas – DPL 1 prior action

         Approval by the NEF Board of a strategic plan for NEF – trigger for DPL 2

         New social protection programs use the social registry for identifying beneficiaries; and a timetable is
          adopted for incorporating existing NEF programs into the social registry – trigger for DPL 2

    (b) Education

    In supporting the Government’s objective of improving learning outcomes, the DPL's focus was on improving the
    relevance of pre-vocational education. In particular, they aimed at facilitating the transition of pre-vocational
    students from school to work by improving the quality of the education, and increasing the number of
    pre-vocational graduates who progress to vocational education and training.

    Prior actions and triggers

         Cabinet approval of a concept paper for pre-vocational education reform – DPL 1 prior action

         New curricula for pre-vocational education are implemented – trigger for DPL 2

    2. Streamlining trade regulations and processes . Trade liberalization is seen as key to the country’s
    competitiveness, and the DPLs placed the emphasis on streamlining regulations, promoting administrative
    efficiency, and enhancing the effectiveness of the customs administration.

    Prior actions and triggers:

         Establishing a joint public-private business facilitation task force to streamline processes governing trade
          and investment – DPL 1 prior action

         Elimination of permits for six products to facilitate trade in the country – trigger for DPL 2

         Cabinet approval of a memorandum on modalities for the establishment of a comprehensive and up-to-date
          trade portal and an action plan – DPL 1 prior action
        Adoption of a functional model for a single window – trigger for DPL 2

        Draft policy paper on the establishment of an internal appeals mechanism in the customs department that
         complies with the revised Kyoto convention – DPL 1 prior action

        A schedule of administrative penalties for customs is adopted – trigger for DPL 2

   3. Improving Human Resource Management in the Civil Service and Monitoring of State -Owned Enterprise
   (SOE) performance. With the public sector, including SOEs, accounting for 25 percent of GDP and 25 percent of
   investment activity, increased public sector efficiency is paramount. Here, the focus is on streamlining civil
   service management and better coordination of SOEs to increase their efficiency and transparency.

   (a) Civil service

   The civil service reform measures supported by the DPLs were meant to address rigidities in management and
   workforce planning arrangements. They focused on developing a medium term civil service strategy and a
   related action plan; changes to the schemes of services; and an MIS – all either prior actions or triggers for the
   DPLs.

   Prior actions and triggers:

        Submission to cabinet on details for streamlining schemes of service (selection and promotion procedures in
         the civil service) – DPL 1 prior action

        Revised procedures are adopted to reduce the time required to amend schemes of service from six months
         to four months – trigger for DPL 2

        A firm is hired to develop a human resources Management Information System (MIS) at five pilot sites –
         trigger for DPL 2

   (b) State-owned enterprises (SOE)

   The reform measures regarding SOEs that were supported by the DPLs were meant to begin to strengthen their
   performance. They included the introduction of a comprehensive performance monitoring framework, supported
   by an information management system, which would lead to improved governance in SOEs and reform of
   underperforming SOEs.

   Prior actions and triggers:

        Cabinet approves a memorandum on the role of the Office of Public Sector Governance (OPSG) to monitor
         SOE performance; prepare quarterly reports; support line ministries in preparing and implementing
         performance improvement plans; and supervise the pace of SOE reforms – DPL1 prior action

        Cabinet has endorsed implementing restructuring plans for the National Transportation Corporation and
         Business Park Mauritius Limited – trigger for DPL 2

        OPSG has provided a report on SOE sector performance – trigger for DPL 2


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost and financing: The commitments under DPL 1 and 2 were US$ 20 million, respectively. They were
   fully disbursed at closing.
   Borrower contribution: None

   Dates: DPL 1 was approved on March 27, 2012, and closed on December 31, 2012. DPL 2 was approved on
   March 27, 2013, and closed on June 30, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
   Relevance is rated high

   The objectives for the two DPLs support the Government’s reform program for the period 2012-2016, called
   Moving the Nation Forward (MNF). The program aims at increasing the overall competitiveness of the economy
   and removing critical constraints to the country’s aspiration to become a high-income country by 2020. The MNF
   is a multi-pillar program, and the DPLs focused on the three reform pillars aimed at structural reforms in the
   public sector. The objectives are also relevant to the World Bank Group’s country priorities, as reflected in the
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) covering the period 2007-2013, and extended to 2015. A guiding principle of
   the CPS is that Bank support remains aligned with the Government reform program, including through a series of
   annual DPLs supporting the reforms. Specific interventions are determined by the Bank on the basis of annual
   business plans that are developed in parallel with the Government’s planning and budgeting processes. This has
   been the case for the two DPLs under review.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance is rated substantial

   The adoption of annual DPLs enabled the Bank to respond flexibly to relevant policy initiatives; to focus on
   reforms that were achievable in the short term; and to lay the foundations for broader reform in the medium term.
   The policy matrix included clearly stated medium term objectives, related and relevant policy actions, indicators
   with targets (expected outcomes for the short term), and institutional arrangements for monitoring. The indicators
   were in some instances defined too narrowly to allow for rigorous assessment, as discussed in Sections 4 and
   10.

   The macroeconomic framework of Mauritius was satisfactory when the DPLs were prepared and approved.
   According to the International Monetary Fund (Mauritius: Staff Report for the 2013 Article IV Consultation, March
   19, 2013), growth, at about 3.5% per annum, was resilient. The Authorities carried out a fiscal consolidation to
   reduce debt vulnerabilities and external imbalances, and rebuild policy buffers. Consequently, Mauritius
   appeared well-placed to meet its statutory debt ceiling target of less than 50 percent of GDP by 2018. Supported,
   inter alia, by the DPLs under review, spending savings were to be realized through better targeting of social
   expenditures, reduction of subsidies, revenue reform, and efficiency gains for public enterprises. The monetary
   policy stance delivered low and stable inflation, and stress tests indicated that the banking system was
   well-capitalized and resilient against a range of shocks. External shocks were the largest risk to the outlook, but
   could be managed with appropriate policy responses, including measures to improve competitiveness through
   structural reforms and investments in human capital, also supported by the DPLs.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Efficacy is assessed on the basis of the three specific objectives of the DPL series.

   Objective 1: Support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
   government to strengthen services to support and empower the most vulnerable . Substantial.

   Social protection

   Two key indicators had been identified to measure the immediate effects of the policy measures:

   The functional restructuring of NEF, and the establishment of a social registry are major steps towards a more
   efficient and effective safety net. The former can be expected to improve targeting and reduce overlap among
   beneficiaries of public programs aimed at the poor and vulnerable. The latter should streamline a number of key
   programs - including in child and family development, community empowerment and entrepreneurship, and
   training. While increased placement is used as an early proxy indicator for measuring the outcome of the NEF
   reform, it is still premature to measure results, as strategic plans and a monitoring and evaluation framework for
   each of the functional policies have only recently been developed (as triggers for DPL2). It is, however,
   reasonable to assume that together the two reforms should contribute significantly to strengthening the safety
net. The two key outcome indicators related to this policy area were substantially surpassed
 The number of people with less than a secondary schooling certificate placed in placement training rose from
a baseline of 912 in 2011 to 3,280 by 2013, compared to a target of 1,200.

 The number of households in the social registry rose from zero in 2011 to 29,000 in 2013, compared to a
target of 13,000

Education

While the curriculum reform for pre-vocational education, introduced in 2012, is likely to increase the quality of
the program – and graduates - over time, it is still too early to tell if the objectives – easier school-to-work transition
and transition from pre-vocational to vocational education – are being met. The indicator suggested – the
graduation rate – may be of limited relevance, beyond showing that more people graduate as a result of the
reform. It is not obvious that the graduation rate is a strong indicator for placement or transition to higher
learning. In the absence of available quantitative data, a stronger results indicator might, for instance, have been
a qualitative one, focusing on the relevant elements of the curriculum for both career and further studies.

Objective 2: Support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
government to streamline trade regulations and processes . Substantial.

The DPLs have generated significant momentum in streamlining trade regulations: the Government has moved
to reduce the number of regulations requiring prior review by the authorities (a key indicator for the DPLs) to 25
as of May, 2014, slightly below the target of 30 regulations. It has further moved to eliminate unnecessary export
permits on a number of products; as well as reducing the number of agricultural products requiring import-export
permits from 21 to 6 – this as a prior action for a regional DPO (Accelerated program of Economic Integration,
APEI).

The introduction of a single window to connect all permit issuing agencies was to promote administrative
efficiency. All agencies involved in the processing and issuance of trade-related permits/clearances were to be
enrolled in the single window by 2013 (key indicator). This is not yet the case: the initial design proved
challenging and institutional capacity insufficient. This has subsequently been overcome -- the business
processes of the 12 participating agencies have been defined, additional regulations and streamlined procedures
developed, and the single window piloted. A detailed technical study was launched in late 2014 to prepare the
hook-up of the first agency – the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Protection – in 2015 with the other
agencies following in a phased process.

In enhancing the effectiveness of the customs administration, the focus is on administrative appeals and
penalties. Here, the amount of time required to settle penalties was used as a key indicator. Against a baseline
of six weeks in 2011 and a target of three weeks, the actual amount of time had been reduced to two weeks in
2013, with over 70 percent of customs office reports settled in that period.

On balance, all the measures indicate progress in making regulation and processes more business friendly. The
streamlining of trade regulations is an ongoing process that appears to be well underway, with the initial impetus
at least in part provided by the DPLs and continuing under government initiatives and further supported by a
regional DPO. Likewise, while it turned out not to be possible to implement the single window over the period
envisaged due mainly to capacity constraints, it also appears to be well underway.


Objective 3: support improvements in the performance of the public sector in Mauritius by assisting the
government to Improve Human resource Management in the Civil Service and Monitoring of SOE performance .
Modest.

Civil service

Incremental progress on civil service reform – focusing on addressing rigidities in management and workforce
planning – seems to have been made since the DPL prior actions and triggers were met. The civil servant
selection and promotion process (scheme of service) has been streamlined – the number of schemes has been
reduced (by 14 percent from 2,500 in 2011 to about 2,100 at end-2014, in line with what was anticipated in the
DPL). Processing times for selection and promotion have been reduced from a baseline of 6 months in 2011 to
between 3 and 4 months, in line with the DPL target. These measures can be expected to speed up the overall
civil service reform.
   Less encouraging are the delays in putting in place of the human resources management information system
   (MIS). Initially it was to be piloted in a few ministries, but the Government subsequently decided that all
   Departments should be involved (ICR, p. 23). This exceeded the implementation capacity of the team. It seems
   plausible, however, to assume that, since the process is underway, over time a full MIS will be in place.

   SOEs

   The introduction of a comprehensive performance monitoring framework was seen as a key to meeting the
   objective as far as the SOEs were concerned. A target of 25 SOE performance reports had been set for 2013.
   Fourteen had been completed by the end of that year, but they remained unpublished because it was believed
   that they might contain sensitive information. Arguably, a crucial element in reforming SOEs is increased
   transparency and accountability. Here, the suppression of information on SOE performance could be interpreted
   as a significant setback.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The relevance of the PDO is rated high, as it responds to both the Government reform program and the Bank’s
   country strategy. The relevance of design is rated substantial: it responded well to the objectives although
   arrangements for implementation may have somewhat overestimated sector ministry capacities, as reflected in
   outcomes. Efficacy is rated substantial for the first objective, reflecting the importance of the introduction of a
   social registry and a restructuring of NEF as measures that can improve safety net performance; substantial for
   the second objective, where on balance, objectives were achieved or on the way to being met; and modest for
   the third objective, reflecting in particular the uncertain performance in the SOE sector.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The policy areas in the DPLs conform to the Government’s reform program (“Moving the Nation Forward”).
   Continued exposure to external shocks remains as a risk that could affect future affordability of current reforms.
   Domestic political risks would be mitigated by continuing to pursue reforms that produce short term results and
   for which there is a relative consensus and which form the basis for further medium-term reforms. Capacity
   concerns, partially addressed through active support by Bank staff, still remain. Progress on SOE reforms is
   proving difficult. Institutional concerns – resulting from the added responsibilities given to line ministries – should
   diminish over time as the practice continues.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    In preparing the DPLs, the Bank drew on experience from prior DPL series, and on extensive analytical work
    that allowed it to align the actions supported with the Government’s policy agenda. The use of DPLs was
    emphasized by both Government and the Bank as a means of stimulating the policy agenda rather than just
    providing budget support. It provided the flexibility to respond to the challenges posed by the country context
    with evolving policy priorities. It recognized the need for building broad consensus on reform by supporting
    the choice of policy areas with short term effects, and by drawing in sector ministries and related agencies -
    while oversight remained with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), sector ministries
    were given key responsibilities for implementation. This was a departure from previous practice that had
    given full responsibility to the MoFED, but it helped to generate broad public agency support for reform.
    Potential capacity constraints at that level were anticipated in design by adding Bank field-level support during
    implementation, although this may have been somewhat insufficient in view of subsequent achievement of
    outcomes. Capacity building was further supported by coordination with other donors. The results framework
    had a clear causal chain between actions and outcomes, but a more comprehensive set of indicators and a
    stronger M&E design might have provided a more thorough understanding of the impact of reforms (Sections
   4 and 10).



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Supervision focused on progress towards objectives, including monitoring of key indicators, capacity
   challenges and the macro situation. Four ISRs were filed, two for each of the DPLs. Throughout this
   process, the team maintained good working relations with Government and donors. While the team was alert
   to issues as they arose, more attention might have been paid to adapting indicators to changing
   circumstances (education, administrative efficiency, see Section 4).


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government had a strong sense of direction regarding the reform process as reflected in the MNF, and
   supported the project throughout preparation and implementation. The timely dissemination of macro data by
   the Government facilitated the Bank’s supervision effort. The MoFED, as the primary government counterpart
   agency, provided timely reporting on progress to Bank teams. The sector ministries were faced with a new
   situation in being given oversight responsibility for their policy areas. This may have been a contributing
   factor to the uneven achievement of results even with support from the Bank. Nonetheless, significant
   progress was made in key areas – social protection, the business environment, in particular. The only clear
   setback seems to have been in SOE reform.



  Government Performance Rating :                          Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   Not rated separately

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E Design
   Quantitative indicators were identified to monitor progress towards defined outcomes in each of the policy areas
   covered by the DPLs. In some instances, their focus was too narrow to provide a thorough assessment of
   progress towards stated objectives. This was the case with the reorganization of the NEF, where only placement
   and training had been explicitly targeted; and with the curriculum reform, where measurement focused on
    graduation, rather than on indicators that might have measured increased efficiencies in transition from
    school-to-work or higher level studies. It was also the case with the pre-vocational education reform (See
    Section 4). Monitoring was the responsibility of sector ministries and agencies. MoFED was in charge of
    coordinating the supervision and monitoring of the reform programs; and preparing an implementation report
    every six months to the Bank.


b. M&E Implementation:

    Indicators were monitored by the Bank on a semi-annual basis, with information provided by the MoFED. M&E
    was also based on dialogue between the Bank and sector ministries. Two indicators were modified during
    implementation: the introduction of a new curriculum for pre-vocational education in 2012 extended the program
    from 3 to 4 years, rendering the 2013 graduation target irrelevant; and SOE reports were adjusted from being
    prepared quarterly to annually.

c. M&E Utilization:

    Regular monitoring was used to signal potential issues, mobilize follow-up and, in some instances, led to
    corrective measures.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    No safeguard policies were triggered

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR reports no fiduciary issues.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None

d. Other:
    None.



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    The first two lessons are drawn from the ICR. The third is drawn by IEG.

    In an environment where the reform agenda may be challenging, it may be better to focus on areas that can
    draw consensus to move forward. In Mauritius, the DPL focused on achieving short term gains to build
    consensus in a situation with multiple stakeholders.

    Strengthening social protection and improving competitiveness can be mutually reinforcing. The immediate
    social effects of efficiency-enhancing trade reforms can be mitigated by a stronger safety net that alleviates
    adverse impacts on vulnerable groups or individuals, if appropriately coordinated.

    Monitoring and evaluation needs particular focus in development policy operations. Such operations may
    include broad institutional changes where outcomes may be difficult to observe in the short term. Under such
    circumstances appropriate proxy indicators might be developed – for instance combining partial quantitative
    outcomes with changes in internal processes to establish that changes are having tangible positive results.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides an adequate basis for assessing the projects. Its approach is generally balanced, including
    description and analysis. That said, the discussion in the ICR could have paid more attention to the results
    framework, and in particular the usefulness of indicators used to assess results. The document is internally
    consistent, it follows the OPCS guidelines. At 32 text pages, it is on the lengthy side, albeit addressing two
    DPLs.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
