Document of
The World Bank                       FLJRE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-307 1-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
SECOND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
May 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                ¢ 126
¢ 1.00                 US$0.008
¢ 1,000                US$7.94
% 1,000,000            US$7,937
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CORPOSANA      -    Sanitation Works Corporation
PAHO           -    Pan American Health Organization
SENASA         -    National Service of Environmental Sanitation
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SECOND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiary:         National Service of Environmental Sanitation (SENASA)
through the Ministry of Health.
Amount:              US$11.8 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
at 9.6% interest per annum.
Rekending
Terms:               Since SENASA is a government department, proceeds of
the loan would be channeled through a project account
with the Central Bank and passed on as grants to SENASA.
SENASA in turn would pass on the funds in kind to the
local communities who would contribute at least 22% of
investment cost, 10% in advance, and through the provision
of labor and materials and 12% through repayment over
10-20 years at 9.6% interest. In view of the beneficiaries'
low capacity to pay, a portion of the Bank funds would be
passed on as a grant.
Project
Description:         Provision of basic sanitation services over a four-and-a-
half-year period to villages in the southeastern part of
the country. Project includes: (a) construction of
water supply systems via household connections and stand-
pipes; (b) construction of individual waste disposal
solutions; (c) implementation of a community health
education program; and (d) implementation of technical
assistance and training program for SENASA.
Project Risks:       The main risk is related to the still limited implementa-
tion capabilities of SENASA. However, SENASA's record
under the previous project has been improving at a satis-
factory rate and the risk in question is not excessive.
To hold it to a reasonable level, a strong technical
assistance program is included. In addition, the project
has been scheduled to avoid overlapping with the project
under Loan 1502-PA.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_ I  _.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                                US$ Thousands
Description                  Foreign    Local        Total
Construction Works
(a) Water supply systems        4,654      3,312        7,966
(b) Sanitary units                816      1,029        1,845
(c) Equipment                     308         51          359
Total Construction Cost           5,778      4,392       10,170
Engineering and Admin. Expenses   404          307          711
'Studies and Designs                  29        112          141
Technical Assistance                706         54          760
Total Base Cost                   6,917      4,865       11,782
Physical Contingencies              830        583        1,413
Price Contingencies               1,752      3,553        5,305
Total Cost of the Project         9,500      9,000       18,500
Interest During Construction    2,300           -         2,300
Total Financing Required         11,800      9,000       20,800
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local      Total
Bank                                 11.8                  11.8
Government                              -       5.3         5.3
Local Communities                               3.7         3.7
Total Financing                       11.8      9.0        20.8
Rate of Return:      N.A.
Estimated Schedule
of Disbursements of
Bank Loan (in US$'000)         FY82    83    84    85   86
Annual                       1.3    3.0   3.9   2.4   1.2
Cumulative                   1.3    4.3   8.2  10.6  11.8
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(Report No. 3380-b-PA) dated May 22, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
SECOND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$11.8 million to assist in
financing the Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The Loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest
rate of 9.6%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, will be
distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The following discussion
is based on the findings of this mission. The last economic report "Economic
Memorandum on Paraguay" (2461-PA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
in May 1979.
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. For many decades, per
capita income and employment grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet
for unemployed and underemployed manpower. More recently, however, the
economy has been growing rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to
neighboring countries have returned, responding to the expanded employment
opportunities associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore,
the expansion of the agricultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of
farmers from abroad. Nevertheless, the country-s population density remains
very low in relation to agricultural land (2.8 ha of cultivable land per capita).
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully realized
during the 1970's. With the rapid expansion of land under cultivation, and
the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil and Argentina,
Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation. A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating agri-
cultural growth, while exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has
1/   This report is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Rural Primary Education Project (Education IV)
(No. P-3037, dated April 20, 1981).



- 2 -
been made possible by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two
binational authorities for the construction and operation of two hydroelectric
plants, with a third in the planning stage, aggregating at least 17,000 MW.
Construction of the Itaipu dam with Brazil, the largest ever built, is on
schedule, and the Yacyreta dam with Argentina, supported by Bank financing,
is about to begin. In the agricultural sector after an exceptional performance
in 1977, a drought in 1978 affected production of soybeans, and in 1979
floodings led to low cotton yields. Preliminary results for 1980, indicate
a recovery with an expected sector growth rate close to 9%. Expenditures
related to the construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric project, which during
the last three years (1977-79), on the Paraguayan side, averaged US$200 million
equivalent to 30% of domestic investment have, in turn, stimulated the construc-
tion (31% average annual growth over 1977-79) and services sectors (12% average
yearly growth over 1977-79). As a result the Paraguayan economy has maintained
a growth rate of over 10% during the last three years.
5.        The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture has been
assisted by improvements in transport and implementation of a set of programs
designed to increase and diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural
growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the real incomes of
the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A
significant share of production of cotton, and soybeans, which account for
most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers many of whom have
received land under Government and privately sponsored colonization programs.
Moreover, rural wages have recently increased sharply in some areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. Per capita income grew
at 5.3% per annum during 1972-79 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the
previous 30 years. Growth in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other
improvements in the standard of living, as life expectancy and literacy have
increased, and child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable
to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in
recent years, the Government has started to carry out a series of programs
aimed at extending social and other back-up services, financial support, and
technical assistance to existing and new land settlements. These programs
should help in spreading the benefits of growth even more effectively among
the poorer segments of the population.
6.        The high level of aggregate demand has affected the relative price
stability that long characterized the economy. The rapid increase in the money
supply generated by the large capital inflows associated with construction of
the Itaipu dam and the buoyant domestic demand had resulted in the average
inflation rate increasing moderately from 5% in 1976 to 10.6% in 1978. In
1979, however, inflation accelerated to 28.2%. Contributing to this result
were the increases in oil prices, delayed readjustments in some prices such as
urban transport tariffs, unfavorable weather that affected food crops, increases
in beef prices (which weigh heavily in the price index) and the inflationary
situation in neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The acceleration of inflation
has occurred in spite of contractionary fiscal policies, whose impact was
limited by the relatively small role of the Government in the economy. In
view of these developments, in late 1979 and early 1980, the authorities
adopted several measures to strengthen and improve the functioning of the



-3-
financial system. Both, active and passive interest rate ceilings were
raised, reserve requirements for non-banking financial intermediaries were
established, minimum capital requirements for banks and other financial inter-
mediaries were raised, and other measures to restrict credit expansion were
imposed. Inflationary pressures receded considerably in 1980 when the
average rate was 22.4% (the CPI index measured from December to December went
from 35.7% in 1979 to 8.9% in 1980). Main contributing factors to this
slowdown appear to have been the cautious monetary policy, stabilization of
food prices related to favorable climatic conditions, reduced beef exports and
a reduced sale of construction services, and lower prices on goods imported
from neighboring countries.
7.        Fiscal policy has been characterized by a strict control of expendi-
tures and revenue increases in line with GDP growth through 1979, resulting
in an improvement of the savings position of the Central Government (the
current account surplus increased from 2.8% of GDP in 1977 to 3.4% in 1979).
Capital expenditures, which in 1977-79 averaged only about 2.7% of GDP
reflecting the limited execution capacity of the agencies that have been
unable to fully utilize budgetary appropriations, have permitted the Central
Government to maintain an overall surplus, which increased from 0.2% of GDP
in 1977 to 0.6% in 1979. However, growing demand for services stemming from
increases in current and capital expenditures, coupled with revenues which
have not grown in real terms, has reversed this trend resulting in a deficit
equivalent to 0.9% of GDP in 1980.
8.        High rates of economic growth in Paraguay resulted in registered
imports in current prices increasing at an average annual rate of 33% between
1976 and 1979. Thus, despite exports growing at an average annual rate of
18.8% during 1976-79, the current account deficit has tended to widen.
Although trading partner data suggest that these registered figures may be
underestimated on the average by as much as 50%, there is no question that
increased public and private capital inflows, mainly associated with the
construction of the hydroelectric projects, have more than offset the current
account deficit. Foreign exchange reserves thus increased from US$160 million
at the end of 1976 to US$773 million by December 1980.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemes and the establishment of additional ones. Through foreign private



- 4 -
investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage the concurrent
development of industries, particularly those with high value-added based on
domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the continued expansion of private
investment and high rates of GDP growth will call for greater public investment
in supporting infrastructure as well as increased expenditures for education,
health, rural development and other development-related services. The needed
acceleration of public capital formation may require new tax measures, pending
substantial transfers from power export earnings to the Central Government,
to ensure the generation of the necessary additional internal resources. At
the same time, higher current expenditures are needed to improve effectiveness
and broaden the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devoting
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 9% during 1981-85. This projected rate is lower
than the average 10% of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1981, restrictive policies to avoid both
the acceleration of inflation and a deterioration in the trade balance. Because
of agricultural growth and favorable international prospects for cotton and
soybeans, real exports are projected to grow at about 13% a year during this
period. Imports are projected to grow at a slower rate than in the past. The
strong export performance is thus expected to reduce the resource gap from about
12% of GDP in 1979 to 5% in 1985. The current account deficit is expected to
remain in the range of US$450-550 million until the late 1980's, when compensa-
tion payments for electricity begin to accrue. Gross capital requirements to
finance the current account deficit as well as to maintain an appropriate
level of reserves are projected to total about US$3 billion during the period
1981-85. About US$1.2 billion of this is expected to consist of Itaipu and
Yacyreta financing. Another US$1 billion may be expected in the form of
private sector borrowing. Thus, only about US$0.9 billion may be needed on
the public account of which US$384 million for amortization. Given the projected
export performance, Paraguay is expected to maintain its current low debt service
ratio and its creditworthiness for the amounts of external capital required to
achieve the projected output growth rates.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       To date, Paraguay has received US$326.1 million (net of cancellations)
of Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$276.3 million has been in
the form of 18 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
February 28, 1981, the Bank and IDA held US$265.8 million, including US$136.1
million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of December 31,
1979, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD; this share is not expected to increase. The
service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt service in 1978 or about
1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank
and IDA assistance to Paraguay to date has been 38% for agriculture, 33% for
transportation; 13% for industry, 12% for education, 2% for preinvestment
studies in various sectors, and 2% for water supply. Execution of these
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had two operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a wood
processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with FINAP,
S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of US$1.0 mil-
lion, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of US$0.4 million.
The project has experienced critical financial and managerial problems, and
efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. IFC is in the process of divest-
ing itself from FINAP. Legal proceedings have been initiated against FINAP by
the National Development Bank. In 1'980, IFC financed a US$1.2 million hotel
operation in the city of Encarnacion. Annex II contains a summary of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as of February 28, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       In addition to the proposed project, Bank Group lending to Paraguay
in FY81 consisted of the US$30.0 million loan for a Livestock Development
Project and the $17.0 million Rural Education Project. Preparation work is
underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, rural development, area
development (including watershed protection and rural development), highways
and urban development.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector to increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.



- 6 -
18.       Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural
water supply is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve
the living standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale.
Similarly, Bank Group lending for industry, agricultural development and
livestock is aimed at increasing value added and exports of agricultural
products, and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers.
Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve institu-
tional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role in
supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors. As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy,
these operations are designed to support either directly or indirectly the
development of that sector, by underpinning in particular the Government's
efforts aimed at extending social and other backup services, financial support
and technical assistance to existing and new agricultural settlements. In
view of the increasing development potential of the southeastern region (as a
result of the expanding agricultural frontier and the impact of the construc-
tion of the large hydroelectric projects)--and the need to assure maximum
possible results, the Bank lending program for Paraguay is to place increased
emphasis on an articulate set of projects in that region. Preinvestment
projects are aimed at supporting programs that help overcome institutional
constraints, in particular in planning, economic management, and project
preparation and execution. The proposed project is in line with the objec-
tives of supporting the programs designated to improving living conditions in
rural areas, emphasizing the growth of the southeastern part of the country,
and the strengthening of public institutions such as the National Service for
Environmental Sanitation.
PART III - THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Current Situation
19.       About 97% of the population and at least 90% of economic activity
are located in the southeastern half of the country. Although two rivers (the
Parana and the Paraguay) which account for the bulk of the country's abundant
river flow border this area, Paraguay relies mainly on groundwater for its
water supply. Surface water resources are being used mainly for electricity
generation and irrigation purposes. This situation is expected to continue
over the next decades at least in the central regions of Paraguay where ground
waters of good quality can be found in sufficient amounts to supply the
existing and foreseeable demand.
20.       At present, only 22% of the country's population has access to
safe and adequate sources of water. Furthermore, levels of service vary
greatly between urban and rural areas. Currently, some 41% of the urban
population and only 10% of the rural population has water supply services.
This compares with an average of 68% and 16% in urban and rural areas in
Latin America, and 64 and 13% respectively in countries in the region with
a similar per capita income as Paraguay. Moreover, only in Asuncion is the
water treated; supply in other cities is based on raw water of dubious
1/   Communities with less than 400 inhabitants.



- 7 -
quality, without chlorination. Only some 60 villages (of about 200 communities
of less than 4,000 inhabitants) have supply systems, either completed, partially
completed or under construction. The rest of the people rely mainly on con-
taminated surface sources, water holes and some inadequately protected wells.
As a whole, service levels are among the lowest in South America.
21.       The levels of service of sewage disposal facilities are even lower.
At present, some 30% of the urban population is served by some sewerage system,
mainly in Asuncion. Elsewhere, the population depends on individual solutions,
mainly latrines. This compares with 36% of the urban population for Latin
America as a whole, and 35% for countries in the region with an income level
similar to that of Paraguay. Data on availability of rural sewage disposal
facilities in these countries are sketchy; however, indications are that
Paraguay s availability of such facilities is very low by the region's standards.
22.       The social implications of this situation are predictable.  In rural
areas, low-income families have traditionally depended on unsafe sources of
water supply and sanitation facilities. Similarly, in urban areas, while
coverage of water supply systems has improved appreciably over the last ten
years, the facilities have been largely based on individual house connections
in the more affluent and middle-class neighborhoods, leaving the poor in the
periphery of towns largely unserved. The result has been widespread incidence
of waterborne or water-related diseases, particularly in the countryside.
Diarrheal and enteric diseases are the second most common cause of mortality
for all ages. The provision of safe water and sanitation facilities thus
constitutes the single most important investment that could improve the
health and productivity of the rural population, if properly integrated with
educational efforts.
Sector Organization
23.       The Technical Planning Secretariat of the Presidency is in charge
of overall water supply and sewerage planning. One of its officials sits on
a high-level Coordinating Committee which includes representatives - and
coordinates the activities - of the two major sector organizations, the
Corporation for Sanitary Works (CORPOSANA) and the National Service of Environ-
mental Sanitation (SENASA) 1/.
24.       CORPOSANA, founded in 1954, is a financially autonomous agency of
the Ministry of the Interior. It is responsible for initiating planning
and providing sector services to cities with populations of over 4,000
inhabitants which represent 29% of the total population of the country.
CORPOSANA now supplies water in Asuncion through 40,000 house connections
(58% of the city-s population). CORPOSANA constructs and operates systems
in other towns through local offices which form part of its organization.
SENASA was founded in 1972 as a decentralized agency of the Ministry of
Health. It is responsible for initiating planning and providing water supply
and sewerage services to communities with less than 4,000 inhabitants
1/   A third organization is responsible for planning and providing sector
services in the Chaco region.



- 8 -
as well as the remainder of the rural population. In the urban and rural
areas, SENASA is also responsible for controlling industrial hygiene, food
quality, solid waste disposal, vectors, insects and general environmental
quality. However, the bulk of SENASA's activities are concentrated in the
water sector.
25.       SENASA constructs village water systems jointly with local Community
Sanitary Committees ("Juntas") which are legally responsible for operating and
maintaining them after construction. Each committee agrees to contribute cash
and materials to initial costs, organize local unskilled labor, and collect
connection charges and tariffs on agreed scales and applicable debt service
payable to SENASA. The tariffs are designed to cover operating and maintenance
costs as well as a portion of the capital costs. These arrangements have been
working satisfactorily with a low rate of default. However, SENASA's management
has lacked the necessary degree of administrative experience for executing a
large-scale investment program. Moreover, SENASA's shortage of trained man-
power in accounting and project management, as well as limited capabilities
in carrying out basic health education programs have constrained its ability
to discharge its required duties in full. The Bank's first Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project (Loan 1502-PA of 1977) was designed to address these
key issues and in particular to provide SENASA the necessary technical
assistance helping to strengthen substantially the effectiveness of the
implementing agency.
Sector Objectives and Programs        -
26.       Prior to 1976, sector investments were made only by CORPOSANA.
Asuncion received the benefits of by far the largest part of these invest-
ments.  Since that time, CORPOSANA, mainly with IDB support, has begun to
increase its investments in urban areas outside the capital, and SENASA has
begun to invest in rural water systems. SENASA's activities are financed by:
(i) Government budget allocations; (ii) communities' repayments of principal
and interest on loans and fees charged for maintenance services; and (iii)
external loans and grants. Government contributions include allocations from
the ordinary budget and receipts from a tax on beer consumption earmarked for
SENASA's investments. External lenders have included, in addition to the
Bank, KfW, and UNICEF. KfW is financing water supply facilities in thirteen
communities in the San Pedro area, which is also receiving support from KfW in
rural development. UNICEF is supporting communities of less than 500 inhab-
itants. Possibly, the binational commissions for Yacyreta and Itaipu will
provide water in some eight additional communities.
27.       The Government of Paraguay has subscribed to the International
Water Decade goals of providing potable water and sewerage services to 100% of
the population by 1990. The absence of long- or medium-term investment
programs, resulting from the lack of adequate sector programming, casts doubts
on the country's ability to meet these objectives.
28.       Two recent efforts are expected to help remedy the current lack of
sector planning. The first of these is the creation of the Coordinating
Committee, made up of representatives of the Technical Planning Secretariat,
CORPOSANA and SENASA. The establishment of the Coordinating Committee should
allow for more balanced overall planning. The second effort is the preparation



-9-
of a thorough sector analysis which is being undertaken by Pan American
Health Organization (PAHO) consultants (partially financed under Loan 1502-PA)
with the active participation of the Technical Planning Secretariat, CORPOSANA
and SENASA. The aim is to identify major sector constraints and recommend
measures to be taken to overcome them, so as to lead to a ten-year investment
program.
Bank Role in the Sector
29.       As noted above, the Bank has participated in the sector mainly
through the First Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project financed by a US$6
million loan (1502-PA). Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
The project covered 50 communities in the "Central" zone, i.e. the minifundia
rural areas surrounding Asuncion. The emphasis of the project was the provi-
sion of safe water and the initiation, on a modest scale, of a program of
construction of sanitary units. A technical assistance program was designed
to strengthen SENASA's managerial capacity. Implementation of the project
suffered a delayed start of works mainly because of administrative problems
resulting partly from turnover of management. These problems have been partially
resolved by the use of consultants, and it is expected that the project will
be completed by August 1982, a delay of eight months over appraisal estimates.
The educational and promotional programs have been prepared and execution has
begun. During project implementation, SENASA's performance has been marked by
improvements in the fields of promotion, construction supervision, operations
and administration. These can be attributed in large part to the technical
assistance program and the performance of the PAHO-sponsored Project Manager.
The technical assistance program has been successful in introducing improved
managerial and accounting practices but not much headway has been made in
strengthening SENASA's staff.
30.    The objectives of the proposed project correspond to the sector
priorities assigned by the Government. Through execution of the proposed
project, the Bank would contribute to the: (a) provision of water supply and
sanitation services to low-income, rural populations in an area where major
rural development efforts (some financed by the Bank) are taking place;
(b) achievement of goals set by the International Water Decade in an area
where need for basic services is great; and (c) strengthening of SENASA.
Regional Development
31.       As a result of the expansion of the agricultural frontier and the
decision to build the large hydroelectric projects referred to above, the
project area is the most rapidly developing area in the country. Previously
existing flows of internal and external migration have intensified, the
regional economy's resource base has been broadened and has been integrated
more closely with the rest of Paraguay, as well as with neighboring Brazil
and Argentina. The Government is attempting, with Bank assistance, to estab-
lish a development strategy for the region, which calls for an integrated



- 10 -
approach through investments that are complementary in nature. Bank assis-
tance to the area involves rural development projects, education and training
projects, a major highway project linking the two main towns, Encarnacion and
Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, and providing a comprehensive network of feeder
roads to the area. An industrial and regional development Bank loan
(Ln. 1866-PA) included assistance to small and medium scale industries in
the area. An area development project in the southern part of the region
is currently being appraised and a future urban development project is under
preparation. Many of the locations selected under the project cover areas
envisioned for future rural development projects so as to maximize the use of
SENASA's resources.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project would be the second sector operation in Paraguay
through SENASA. Since the Government's request for assistance in 1979, two
missions have visited the country to assist SENASA with project identification
and preparation. The project was appraised in December 1980. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project" (No. 3380-b-PA, dated May 22, 1981) is being circulated separately.
A Loan and Project Summary is being placed at the front of this report.
Negotiations with the Borrower and the executing agency took place in
Washington from April 30 to May 7, 1981. The Paraguayan delegation was headed
by Ing. Guillermo Martinez Fleitas, Director of SENASA. A Supplemental
Project Data sheet is presented as Annex III.
Project Aims and Description
33.       The proposed project would continue the efforts begun with the first
project (financed by Loan 1502-PA) to improve public health in rural areas by
providing a safe water supply and sewage disposal systems and promoting better
hygiene standards. Thus, the project would assist in achieving a better
balance in economic opportunities through the improvement of key elements of
social infrastructure which support the country's agriculture based develop-
ment. However, while the previous operation was concentrated in rural areas
close to Asuncion, the proposed project would go deeper into the countryside
by focusing on the southeast of Paraguay, including outlying agricultural
areas. In this way the project would link up with the regional development
efforts underway in this part of the country (referred to in para. 31).
Lastly, the project would help strengthen SENASA, the country's sector insti-
tution for rural water and sewerage, as well as the participation of local
communities in the execution of this type of program.
34.       Specifically, the project would consist of: (a) construction of new
or extension of existing water supply systems; (b) installation of sanitary
units; (c) provision of educational and promotional programs in the benefi-
ciary communities; and (d) provision of a technical assistance program for
SENASA in project management, and in operational and financial management.



- 11 -
35.       Village Water Supply Systems.  The project would provide chlorinated-
water to about 73,000 people in the project area by 1985 (representing about
10% of the area's rural population). Eighty percent (58,000 people) would be
served by house or courtyard connections, and the remaining 20% (15,000 people)
would be served by public standpipes. It is estimated that 60% of the families
that would benefit from the project (40% of those receiving connections and
100% of those receiving access to public standpipes) belong to the poverty
group, defined as those earning less than 25% of the national per capita
income on the basis of a recently undertaken survey. This water supply coverage
would be achieved by the construction of new or extension of existing water
supply systems in 49 rural communities. A typical water system would include:
(i) a drilled well, 100-200 m deep; (ii) pumping equipment and a chlorination
system; (iii) a 10-100 m3 storage tank; and (iv) a distribution network with
house connections serving about 80% of the population, and standpipes to serve
the remaining population.
36.       Waste Disposal Systems.  This scheme would include assistance for
the construction of latrines and septic tanks, as well as 2,000 sanitary
units. Seventy percent of the families benefitting from the program belong to
the poverty group as defined in paragraph 35 above. The design of this
component is based on similar pilot experiments undertaken under Loan 1502-PA.
37.       To carry out the village water supply and waste disposal systems,
the project would include: (i) provision of equipment, tools and technical
assistance for the construction of latrines and septic tanks; (ii) procurement
of equipment and tools for regional laboratories and well drilling operations,
and for community repair shops; (iii) procurement of trucks for SENASA's
construction supervision.
38.       Educational Programs.  The purpose of the educational and promo-
tional program is to stimulate village participation in the project, and to
ensure that project benefits are fully realized. This program, a continuation
of one begun under Loan 1502-PA, would include seminars for the Sanitation
Committee members on basic administration including basic accounting and
assistance in the formulation of tariff structures and operation of rural
systems. It would also train operators. In addition, the program would
provide seminars and lectures to housewives and school children in the village
on water uses and benefits, and basic sanitation practices.
39.       Technical Assistance.  In view of SENASA's increasing responsibili-
ties, extensive use of consulting services would be required. Feasibility
studies and final designs for work corresponding to about 20% of the project
works have been prepared by competent local consultants. For the remaining
80%, SENASA would use consultants to carry out the surveys in situ and prepare
data, and would use its own staff to complete the final designs. Construction
supervision is expected to be shared between consultants and SENASA's permanent
staff. SENASA would be responsible for community promotion and providing
assistance for the construction of individual excreta disposal systems. Other
Ministry of Health personnel would provide assistance for the health-related



- 12 -
activities. The proposed project's technical assistance program would provide
support to SENASA in meeting its immediate responsibilities and organize its
development. This component would include: (a) services of three management
consultants, for two to four years each, to advise the heads of SENASAs
Departments of Planning and Engineering, Administration and Finance, and
Operations; (b) consulting services for SENASA's headquarters staff in specific
technical fields (well drilling, community systems operation and maintenance,
accounting, etc.); (c) courses and seminars for SENASA-s field staff and
community plumbers and inspectors; and (d) overseas training for SENASA
personnel in such areas as hydrogeology and well drilling techniques.
Institutional and Community Arrangements
40.       SENASA will be responsible for executing the project.  The qualifi-
cations of its staff of over 190, particularly those of the engineers and
specialized technicians are satisfactory. The start of operations of the
systems financed under Loan 1502-PA and the execution of the proposed project
will increase SENASA's responsibilities. After SENASA has executed the works,
it will be in charge of overseeing the administration and major maintenance of
the rural sanitation systems. SENASA will also be responsible for providing
necessary technical support to the communities, which will be in turn respon-
sible for the day to day operations of the system. These responsibilities
will tax SENASA's limited resources, in spite of improvements in SENASA's
ability to plan and execute the undertaking of small water supply and sanita-
tion projects achieved during the last two years. SENASA agrees that an
increase in the number of its higher level staff is needed to better cope with
these expanded responsibilities.
41.       Attracting more qualified staff will probably require improvement of
compensation for the professionals in SENASA. This may be difficult since
SENASA is part of the general public administration. Any changes in remunera-
tion policies could have a chain reaction in the rest of the public sector
that could result in an excessive burden on Government finances. A commitment
has been obtained during negotiations that the Government and SENASA will
present to the Bank not later than December 31, 1981, a comparative study of
SENASA's remuneration vis-a-vis other Government agencies and the private
sector. SENASA will also present to the Bank not later than June 30, 1982, a
plan of action and schedule of implementation satisfactory to the Bank, which
considering the above-mentioned constraints, effectively achieves adequate
permanent staffing for SENASA and assesses the degree of reliance on the local
consultants to support its operation (Section 4.03 of draft Loan Agreement).
Terms of reference for this study and plan of action have been agreed upon
during negotiations. This approach is consistent with similar commitments
undertaken in various other sectors under Bank-supported operations approved
for Paraguay over the last two years.
42.       SENASA would conclude an agreement with the Junta (see para. 25) of
each of the villages selected, based on standard models satisfactory to the
Bank. SENASA would be responsible for construction of the system, including
supervision of local contractors and voluntary labor, and for delivering the
agreed number of house connections. It would also provide technical assistance
for the installaltion of sanitary units and tile fields through the Juntas.
The Huntas would be responsible for collecting connection charges and water



- 13 -
tariffs on agreed scales established and updated by SENASA, following the
formula established below, as well as monthly installments for waste disposal
solutions (paras. 47 and 48). Assurances have been obtained from SENASA
during Loan negotiations that it will employ qualified consultants acceptable
to the Bank to assist at the department level in project management, operation
and maintenance, and finances and administration (Section 3.04 of draft Loan
Agreement). Appointment of the management consultants would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft Loan Agreement). These consultants
are expected to assist SENASA in undertaking the staffing study mentioned
above.
43.        The following criteria would guide the selection of communities
for SENASA sub-loans: (i) all communities would have populations of 400-4,000
inhabitants; (ii) all communities would be located in seven specified depart-
ments; (iii) water supply subproject costs must have a per capita construction
cost of less than US$130 in January 1981 prices; (iv) hydrogeologic studies
demonstrating the possibility of developing easily and economically reliable
sources of water must have been completed; and (v) a sanitation committee must
be set up in each community to participate actively in the planning and
construction of the system, and take responsibility for future administration,
operation and maintenance of the system. Assurances have been obtained that
the above criteria will be applied to all subprojects financed under the Loan
(Section 3.02(b) of draft Loan Agreement). Priority would be granted to those
communities which have expressed to SENASA the desire to obtain water supply
and excreta disposal systems and have demonstrated the ability of the community
to contribute to construction costs. A preliminary list of communities has
been agreed upon with SENASA. Other funding agencies complementing the Bank-
supported projects follow the same system and criteria.
Costs, Financing and Recovery Plan
44.       The total cost of the project, excluding interest during construction,
is estimated at US$18.5 million in January 1981 prices, of which US$9.5 million
represents the foreign exchange component. Interest during construction is
estimated at US$2.3 million, administrative and engineering costs at 7% of the
construction cost, physical contingencies at 12% of the base cost, and price
contingencies at 40% of total project cost. Price contingencies for the local
component were arrived at by using the following indexes: 1981: 21%, 1982 and
thereafter 17%. Price contingencies for the foreign component were estimated
at: 1981: 9.8%; 1982: 8.5% and 1983 and thereafter: 7.5%. About 110 man-months
of consulting services are included for the technical assistance to SENASA
(which are expected to be undertaken by foreign consultants at an average of
about US$6,000 man-month). Completion of final engineering designs and
construction supervision would require an additional 60 man-months of local
consulting services (at about US$2,600 per man-month). The average man-month
cost represents the rate billed by consulting firms for individuals and
includes salaries, social costs, travel and the firms' overhead and profits.
45.       The Bank Loan would finance the total foreign exchange component,
and interest during construction. The Government of Paraguay has agreed to
provide US$5.3 million, and the beneficiary communities would contribute the
remaining US$3.7 million. The project's financial requirements that would
be borne by the Central Government would be partially recovered from the
villages and capitalized by SENASA. The Government has indicated that



- 14 -
it will meet the necessary financial requirements through budgetary contri-
butions to SENASA (including a possible increase in the taxation of beer).
The estimated required annual Central Government contributions during the
project construction period has been agreed with the Government. In this
context, the Government has also provided assurances that SENASA's operating
budget will be suitably covered by budgetary contributions (Section 3.01 of
draft Loan Agreement). Overall, during the next five-year period, SENASA's
requirements entail 26% of administrative expenditures and 74% of capital
expenditures. The Government's contribution is expected to amount to some 58%
of SENASA's total budget.
46.        SENASA will use these funds to construct and transfer the proposed
water supply and waste disposal facilities to the communities. The local
authorities benefitting from the project, in turn, will be required to set
their charges at a level sufficient to cover their operating and maintenance
expenditures, including equipment replacement expenses, as well as a portion
of investment cost. The communities will cover at least 10% of investment
cost through the initial contributions. The initial contributions will be
2.5% in cash (payable before the initiation of works) and 7.5% during the con-
struction period in cash (at least 2.5%), labor or kind. The balance between
the initial contribution and 22% of investment cost will be covered through
tariffs and amortized over 10-20 years at 9.6% interest. Wherever possible,
a larger portion of recovery of investments will be sought in such a way that
repayments to SENASA will, on average, provide for 25% of total investment
outlays. The remainder of the investment costs will be borne by the Government.
Accordingly, a portion of the Bank funds would be passed on as a grant. These
arrangements are the same as under the first project and reflect the fact that
the beneficiaries' low capacity to pay does not permit a full recovery of the
project capital cost. The tariff levels are based on the local ability to
pay. A socio-economic study is made by SENASA in each community, to ensure
that water charges represent a maximum equivalent to 7% of the average family
cash income in the region. Tariffs are fixed at a basic amount for a patio
connection plus an additional charge based on the number and type of sanitary
fixtures used in each house. For the purpose of determining tariff levels,
SENASA has prepared a table in which a unit is assigned to every sanitary
fixture. The water charges are devised in such a way that there is a small
degree of progressivity (about 50% difference between the minimum and the
highest charge). These water charges have a revenue covenant which entials
that they also have to serve the debt in an amount which combined with the
initial contribution, amounts to not less than 22% of the total capital cost.
The execution of these arrangements under the previous project is satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that (i) the tariff system
presently used by SENASA will continue to operate, unless SENASA and the Bank
otherwise agree, (ii) SENASA and the communities will at least once a year
review the tariff levels; and (iii) SENASA will cause the sanitary committees
to take all necessary measures to produce revenues sufficient to comply with
the revenue covenant. The revenue covenant is embodied both in the draft Loan
Agreement and in the contracts between SENASA and the communities (Section
4.05 of draft Loan Agreement). The contract between each Sanitary Committee
and SENASA would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 and Schedule V of
draft Loan Agreement). The costs of the sanitary units would be fully recovered
(paragraph 48).



- 15 -
47.       Following basically the financial principles and requirements applied
under Loan 1502-PA, for water works, SENASA would charge the communities an
interest rate equal to the rate that the Bank would charge in the proposed
loan. This onlending rate, although higher than the one charged under Loan
1502-PA, would still be negative in real terms given the current and expected,
high inflation rates. The subsidy implied in the element of grant financing
is, however, necessary to promote improvement of sanitary conditions in
villages with lower than the country's average capacity to pay.
48.       For sanitary units, SENASA would recover the full cost of the units
in a period from 3-5 years at interest rates equal to the one charged by the
Bank. People expected to benefit from these units, although not wealthy, have
a higher capacity to pay than the rest of the community (Section 3.03 and
Schedule V of draft Loan Agreement). Average monthly water charges are
estimated at a maximum 7% of average family-cash income for house and patio
connections. Charges to the lowest income group, for public standpipes, would
be about 4% of the average family cash income. These levels are considered
affordable. This is reinforced by experience under Loan 1502-PA, as the
populations of beneficiary communities have demonstrated their willingness
and ability to pay by signing onlending agreements, purchasing materials and
providing labor.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       All contracts for equipment and materials amounting to US$100,000
or more and for civil works of US$200,000 or more would be awarded on the
basis of international bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local
suppliers would be granted a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. value, or an
amount equivalent to the customs duty, whichever is lower. The Bank would
have the right to prior review and approval of invitations to bid and proposals
for contract award in the case of contracts for materials and equipment and
for civil works exceeding US$100,000 and US$200,000, respectively. In addi-
tion, the following arrangements have been agreed upon:
(i) Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost US$10,000
or more but which cannot be grouped in bid packges estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, and contracts for civil works
estimated to cost US$10,000 or more but which cannot be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more,
could be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, locally
advertised, conducted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, and up to a total cost of these items not exceeding an
aggregate of US$2,000,000.
(ii)  Contracts for goods and for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$10,000 could be procured in accordance with local procure-
ment procedures satisfactory to the Bank; in this case the total
aggregate cost of these items could not exceed US$100,000.
(iii)  Contracts for spare parts for equipment used for the project may
be procured through negotiated purchases from established and
reliable suppliers, with a total aggregate for the cost of these
items not exceeding US$250,000.



- 16 -
It is expected that goods and services representing about 45% of total
project cost would be procured through international bidding, and that 21%
would be procured through local bidding; the remaining would entail technical
assistance and force account expenditures.
50.        Since a necessary conditions for the success of rural projects is
community participation in the form of labor, materials, transportation,
storage areas, cash contributions, etc., part of the civil works would be
executed by small local contractors, combined with voluntary community work
and force account methods. Well drilling would be carried out mostly by
SENASA's own personnel using drilling equipment already owned by SENASA.
SENASA personnel is working on similar tasks under the ongoing project and is
being trained on site by a qualified consultant. Because the number of wells
to be drilled under the proposed project is large. There is a possibility
that private companies may be retained in some limited instances.
51.       The contracts for management technical assistance to SENASA are
expected to be won by foreign firms. The contracts for completion of final
designs and for construction supervision are expected to be awarded to local
firms, as are those for specialized technical assistance. Pipes and cement
are expected to be supplied by local manufacturers. All other materials are
expected to be imported. During negotiations, agreement has been reached on
a procurement schedule for the proposed project for the second semester of
1981. The Bank would agree with SENASA on the yearly purchase program for
project works beginning 1982; to that effect, SENASA would submit to the Bank
the purchase program not later than October 31 of the preceding year (Section
3.06 of draft Loan Agreement).
52.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100%
of imported, or 35% of locally manufactured or imported goods locally procured,
materials and equipment for the water systems and sanitary units; (b) 100% of
the foreign expenditures or 35% of imported materials locally procured of other
materials and equipment; (c) 100% of the costs of management consultants; and
(d) 40% of the costs of training fellowships, community education, and other
technical assistance and engineering. Disbursements would be completed by June
1986, six months after project completion.
53.       In order to assure continuity with the project financed by Loan
1502-PA, well drilling equipment and materials would be procured prior to loan
signing. Thus retroactive financing in an amount not to exceed US$100,000,
would be permitted (Schedule I, paragraph 4 of draft Loan Agreement). A
condition for initiating labor in the case of each Sanitary Committee would be
that the Committee has made an initial cash downpayment of at least 2.5% of the
construction cost of the water system (Section 3.03 and Schedule V of draft
Loan Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing Arrangements
54.       As part of the technical assistance program financed under Loan
1502-PA, SENASA has developed a standard accounting system to record its
operations. The system will permit SENASA to produce yearly balance sheets
and income and cash flow statements. The system will also permit SENASA to
keep project accounts separate from its other accounts. SENASA has started



- 17 -
to implement the new system and has produced its first annual statement of
accounts (December 31, 1980). The project aims to continue to assist SENASA in
the implementation of the new accounting system. Training of accountants and
bookkeepers in the new accounting procedures would be part of the technical
assistance program.
55.        SENASA is audited by two different Government entities.  The
permanent auditors of the Ministry of Health carry out internal auditing
once a year. The General Controllers Office, which maintains a permanent
office in SENASA, checks all vouchers, and reports quarterly to the Minister
of Health. In compliance with a covenant under Loan 1502-PA, an independent
external auditor prepares an audit based on generally accepted accounting
principles and sends the reports to the Minister of Public Health and to
the Bank. The Gover:nment has agreed to have SENASA's financial statements
audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit a report on the
results of the audit to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each year. In addition, specialized personnel from SENASA's accounting
department will audit the account of each community at least once a year
(Section 4.02 and 4.04 of draft Loan Agreement).
Justification, Benefits and Risks
56.       The economic return on investment was not quantified because of
the impossibility of assigning a monetary value to health benefits stemming
from the project and because the overall project revenues -- a proxy for
quantifiable benefits -- are negligible and do not represent a significant
portion of the project's benefits. However, to obtain at least an approxi-
mate value for the level below which the economic rate of return is
not likely to lie, a calculation was made for two villages (of 8,000 and
2,800 inhabitants) of the present value of capital and operating costs,
including complementary investment for a 10 year period, at an 11% discount
rate, corresponding to the approximate opportunity cost of capital. In both
cases, the net present value would be positive on the assumption that consumers
assign a value equal to what they are now paying to vendors--or half that
amount when they are carrying their water from nearby sources l/--for volumes
consumed at present, and a value equal to 015/m for additional consumption.
These sample calculations suggest that even without computing the value of
public health and other benefits, the economic rate of return of the project
is likely to exceed the opportunity cost of capital in Paraguay. Furthermore,
the project represents the least cost solution and provides reasonable levels
of service for Paraguayan standards.
57.       The latrine component of the proposed project is justifiable in terms
of its low cost and the reduction of public health hazards. The beneficiaries
of the sanitary units would completely repay the costs in three to five years;
the only element of subsidy would be the relatively low interest rate.
3                                       3
I/   Volumes up to 1.5 m /month per family valued at 01,000/m



- 18 -
58.       The main risk is related to the still-limited implementation capa-
bilities of SENASA. However, the project has been prepared to reduce these
risks at a reasonable level. To this end, a strong technical assistance
program is included. In addition, the project has been scheduled to avoid
overlapping with the project under Loan 1502-PA.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, and the Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the loan are being listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft Loan
Agreement) would be the appointment of management consultants for SENASA.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan-would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1981                                         By Moeen A. Qureshi



-19 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIEET
PARAGUAY                     R2FERENCE (nOuPS (WEICHTED AVE   GES
LAND AREA (TliOUSAhD SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            406.8
AGRICULTURAL     162.2                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOMF
1960 fb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 250.0        390.0    1060.0               1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      87.0        140.0    200.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-IEAR (MILLIONS)      1.6         2.3        2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6        37. 1      38.8                 63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2075
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                        4.0         6.0        7.0                 28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0         15.0      18.0                 81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0        46.1       44.7                 41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         51.0        50.7      51.9                  54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2        3.4                  3.9                      8.2
POPULATION RQOWTH IRATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2. 6/e       2. 6/c    2.8                  2.7                       1.6
URBAN                              2.9          3.0       3.5                  4.1                       3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0         41.0       39.0                 34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0          9.0       9.0                  8. 9                      8. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          3.2       2.8                  2.5                       1. 5
FAMIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..       26. 0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       15.5
F00D AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          94.0       103.0      102.0                106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                  109.0       121.0      122.0                107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          71.0         77.0      80.0                 65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0         42.0      46.0                 33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0         10.0       8.0                  8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0         61.0      63.0                 63. 1                     67.8
INFANT MORtALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        64.0        ..                  66.5                      55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         11.0      13.0                 65.9
URBAN                               ..         22.0      25.0                 80.4
RURAL                               ..          5. 0      5.0                 44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          6.0      10.0                 62.3
URBAN                               ..         16.0      28.0                 79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..       ..                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2300.0      2340.Ojd 2156.0                 1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2310.0    2258.0                1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            430. 0       620.0     695. 0               480.3                     289. 7
URBAN                               ..        240. 0    282.0
RURAL                                *      5830.0    6260.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..        ..                   ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SU2E OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL                              5. Vs        S. 4/f
URBAN                              S. 3/e       5. 0/f
RURAL                              5. 7/j       S. 7f      ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2. 6/e       2. 4/f
URBAN                              2. 61s       1.7        ..
RURAL                               ..          3. l       .f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              13.0/e      17. 5ff
URBAN                             33.2         41.5f
RURAL                              1. 21       1. 2/f



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                               Page 2
PGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                      R5ERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAjS
- MoST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCCM15
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTThATE k      LATIN AMERICA & CAIBSBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJiSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0     102.0                   99.7                    105.9
MALE                 105.0       115.0      106.0                 101.0                    109.3
FEMALE                90.0       104.0       98.0                  99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         17.0      25.0                   34.4                     64.0
MALE                  11.0        17.0       26.0                  33.5                     71.1
FEMALE                11.0        17.0       25.0                  34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OP SECONDARY)   7.0           6.0        5.0                  38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACRiER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         32.0      28.0                  30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           8.0          9.0      10.0                  14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75.O/e       80.0      81.0                   76.3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2. 0         7.0       7. 0                 43.0                      84. 6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         82.0         74.0      66.0                 245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                      15. 0     20.0                  84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         44.0      37.0                   63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       577.2        729.1     933.6
FDIALE (PERCENT)                   21. 7        21.4      23.0                  22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         53.0      50.0                  37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.0      19.0                  23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.5        31.7       31.9                  31.5                     40.9
MALE                                 51. 7        50.0       49.6                  48.9                     55.9
FEIALE                               13.9         13.5       14.3                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6        1.5                   1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIEMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (TS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0                 474. 0
RURAL                                ..           ..     260.0                 332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      19.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to emigration of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d Coverage unknown;  /e 1962;  Lf 1972.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                                                             Page 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDTCuTIti
Noten: Alh-thnh the data ar  dtawc Irn ..         ce  ga..neali  judged the moat auh,      ooead reliable, it shoold also ha .ctd that they say ne  be Leet-
ntoaly c-mparabie hecant of the lack of  -todardli-d dtfinitlns and cctceptn ated by differntc1                 noltin colleting the data.  The data  t,nn
thels.... useful so d-scrth    edees of magnitude, indicate trends, and                    -aace ls etain ma7nn dcff-r-ct  h-e ..r coatoes
The ref: ..ene grOaps ore (17 the s-   -octy group of the t-hi rt conty and (2) a coutry grcp with sonrhat higher adeege tLcom   than the santry sroap
ct the sb)no  -oaty f...ceFt for 'Capit-u S-loniu  Oil pntn   grop wher  'Otiddla I-onm   Notch Aftlc  and Middle E4at' is chosenb h..eaa  of   ene
socl-rbtaral of mi.itino).  To the ceforence group data the   -.ger . ac  -oua.neighted arith-ait meant foe each indicato  and show  only  h.. at
lean  hafof the -oatrlon1 Ioagrop le:.atdabf-orthat iIndctor   Sion  the --overg  of coutries ang the indic-t..n dep-nd  or the  --2lability nf
daaadis not  .nif._         ..aion. an-hoe-is-d  inlelating oeralgen of one iodloat-  En another.  Tbh-n  an-rges am  olp useful in toacm-ing the vale
at one indictor. at atine am9o th e cntr..Ly ond -ef--nc   geops.
LASND AREA (thon.o  sq tm.                                                                     Pooltion  Ie Phynlci.a - P.oplation di'tdca by nehe  05 pranti.ni   phy-
Ioa-Total sur..c an   cmpising land orna and inln   ntr.niin-q fld  from a medical school at anivarity leve.
Aanicaltun  - Etinman  of agricsltrel area used tempornnily c- pemaetly                     Population pot Darin,~  g Pseon-  oplaia  diuided hy seae  of prantitieg
fce crps, pastorns, macho  and littler gardens  -o to lie           lw  1977 data,          moe  end femlegrdaatenu           a  paticat art1           and assistantmass
deN Fit CAPITA (1S0$) - ClNP per -apita  siae      cretsos   crico..  -l-                        ahn   n   oa)dvddO   hI   eFei'   ta   efboaspled bab
calated Op sae conversion method as Wlord loc  Atlas .(19.-9 hae is); 1N6f,                   avai1,lah    in pahic aod private geneel and spoiali.ad hospital and rs-
1970, and  1979 data.-                                                                        hahlIit  o.  cetrs          -npitsls see .atebl-hahtat  panmany eaffad
bp at len  see. physician.  Estshlish-ets e-avdisg princIpally  candia
ENERGT CONSUMP'TION PER CAPITA - Anneal c.onepFion cf c--tcial .enegy (coal                      caesenniosied.  mRel heepitala. haw-e, innlldi  b-deb and' added
sod lignite, petrleum-, c          gorla  and hpdn-  ro. ent1 end gecthe-l vim-                canrsnt perasently staffed by a poFaician (bee hy a  "indEe   asaatt, 
trin ity) in lcilngrmn of .nl  quvaot pencpitIa L91,0,19701,..ad 197f8ae   mddeif.,  t.) which offer in-patiat araainsd preside a
data.                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~imIted range of medical facilities    Pan sttistical ptema   ebsa bnie-
tale  inlde WHUO. principal general and apseimlaad beapisla., ad  -asa
POPULATION ANDfIPEAL. STATISTICS                                                                 hospitals local er rors1 Ioapitala and madial and mternIty asiea
Total Feoula.tin.Ki-ar(lios  - An cf Daly 1; 19h0, 1970, and 1978                           admIssions Den H-onita1 Bed - Tofa1 nonbeea  a.dmlsiena es Os di-s -Btni
dat.                                                                                         from hospitele divided hy the neher of hada
Urhs ob lon   loren   ftot-i) - Rtatof aehan-  tototal popalrlo-;
dLffeesnt definitiono of arbse aeemy affect cnparahiliny of data OISN
a  -ag -tatoles;L19160, 1970, and 1978 dana.                                           hoernas lies If Hf.an.hald (pr.ta... pee hoo..eheld) - tetal. orban.sa    el
foo inPo  cton                                                                       A ho-asitod consEts ofIagrasp of indinidnale  ha s-nes lining qeetasa
F-faiosi   erDD  - C.r..    oulto t               p-je-tine are he..ed In 198$              end their main -e.In.  A hoarder or lodger soy en may mat ha talad
ltotl populatio  by. age and nc and their m-aty and fertility rae,                        the hoo..ehold foL saeinlP-eP-s..
Projectionprseet  a   otality rais  nonpriLo of thren lards. Atu                        .vea. - omh- of pto--  par room - total, urban, adrenal - Avet.ain-
tog lift sopentancy or  thrs  inceasing wIsh  ostp' a  o  capita  com                     hnof Pe.... pen rant du, allbore, ad coral netopiad enm-,tioaa
leve,  nid female life enp ...anp s.biah      .ig or 77.1 years.  The pane-               dclnu   epoie..Dnlloogaeenlde nonP.-psnat eeeas 
meters for fertility eant sine hav. three I.vela asasing declin  in                       unoccupied psota..
fntlirp.  . acodIng to Lnc... leve  and pantfamiy PLanning pe-for-nc-                 coe   o  lceiivicn t of dnlsa)-ntatl, arha   4m,d, -l  -
Each coutry is tAeo easigoed one tf thean ninecehoale               of  -etalIty          Icovetio..al drllinga sith elstoirity in lWivig qaceenIs a  p.reeg
an  fertilIt  -reda I o  psejenirn  purposes,                                             of mitd, arhac, and  -oon  dsmeliingsa-p-tivsly.
.itioncypop'tioe-,naatatio....p  pop.latios there is no growth ti-n
the hilth rate Ia shoal en the desth rote, trd alec the ags atr...t... .e-    ERICATION
-ate  corniestat.  Thin in achieve.donly at.ca  f-eniliny rates: dec1Lne to             hdlaeteo inEd-Im t R.atios
tha replacemet leve  of oit cat -epraductic   rre nthre ranh ge..eratins                  Proasay school - total, male and f-1ni  - Grn..  ettl, male and fsaal
of nne  rplaeritesilffneotly.  The stationary ppu        iia -es  eas                  enrollmet of all agen ar ths primary leva  at proantaa  ef nmpeatima
esiaedn   h  h     teo  th  pejennd   chrcersisof       th    oaseo                 nnayeho-agef poultins  noomall  iscdesr  ldran osgn f-il
in the yearO  10. sd the rate of dcine of letilitip rate to rcplats-                        year bho  ada'td I o  difennelenthsa   rmc   dseia   n
mat level                                                                                   conre    ithuirte  ndunation mneolmsn  any ea-ad 100 pas.tim
lee   tnetio...cy poDu1ation is reen.hed -The year  her  stationep population                  aInc  som  papiln are hales or above the affirin1 se.es.  s..
s..ine hen bee  r-ahad.                                                                      Seodr col-tonal male and female -Coswed an "shas;  ao
Far te. km. - Mid-yea  population Per eqa... kilomter (10) hectsren) cf                        prvdngnrqsl, oaina,r   eehrnsmigiaentm-fcpai
fete.  h.  aglclonl ad - Competed as above for agnialtral land                               usoly of12t  17..aofae   oeepnae  eessaeIeaal
only.                                                                                     Vocationa.e..     ls        ....ten on of se..odary  - Von..ttenl imatiteti-a
Foeolatilcr AMe St-acrore (Preant) - Children (0-14 pears), cokIng-age  (15-                    include techolci.., Ed'nP al  or           It progr-  mNtlb eparate lsdepe
1pa),ad ctrd  h   eased over; an percentages of nEd-peso pcpu-                         dertly or an dep-ri tne  of ..ec.edary inanitatimna.
latica; 1960, 1970, and 197N dat.                         .                                 P.p1-tea.her ratio - -rimar. and aecoedern - Tsta1 atuann  enrolld Ln
Popultion Irowth  lae (percent  - corl - A-lus groanh lcona  of tonal mid-                       primary end  -scodary level  divided by  -obars of tabsohe    is the
peeppulaIn  for IM91-C, 1N60-70, and 1970-7g.corendglvls
F-rolatlo2r lesoith Rte (rst "      -luban - Annua  gron th ta  of -nhan pnpc-                 Adult litnnecyvrses (Dances.t) - Literate  ado1ta (nde to rad and -ritn)
Loin fo19V10-Id  19H9-7,and" 1970-78.                                                          senIpencetnga of tonal aduliteplningd 13 yeen andser
Crude Dcrth late Iran ohoatnd) - Anoano lo  hitopn  oo d of mid-year
pcpo1ati"a; 1911, 1970, and 1978 dan.                                                   CONCSUMPTION
Crade Doanh Rlee   (pee thunerd) - A-ooa  deaths Pen tho...and of -id-pear                   FaalP aefa  rotn   oeeln                         ...Pasasan  tar   -Weism  anse
poultIn   190 97,ad 1978 data.                                                         cennsing lees tha  eight paa           -; nldan   ha.lanea, h.a--a  ad
dress.P            t te dnicn R.,,e-Av...ngeco-bee  of-daughters  amma  sIll hea  in           military '-hicle..
her   - nomlerprnc.ativr peird if  hb  ePeie-e  pree-t age-spatifin l en-                 fldit Rtieclvar  (car thoasad pneeletion) - All types of            aiasfee eedh
tillity rts  a-cli  five-yea  averages en,dfng In 1910, 197D, .ad 1977.                     bradats to gn..r-1 poblic Den thousand of popolaties,  sniedas  -mil-
FamilyPlannng -   cceptos, Aneal (heousads) - Annual comber of s--ptora             crond  cmieoi   onno   n   nyaswe   aitaime   ag 
of hehce idaI.cen             .. unde   unie  of nonlocal  fasoly placoing program          o   i  effect; data f. onrecet yas-  may one he nomparbla sts  flee
family Plannin  -  sea        -pecet of marriedrmo  -               K.crcg  of maroled         cutisaoihdlc tg
woman of oh1id-hee... a,.,ge(15-4  years) rho uae blrth-co-n-o  devoc-  to                T     ..Ea Levae ,.Ir thosan ni     lnin  -TVnee..a   a   aigeant
all saintd wme  I  snaggRo.p.                                                                g-e-rI public par thessne~d popolatiLon; e..nidee oelftra    TY. ea.at-an
PODA  ANDfi NITRITII!                                                                            In coutries end in peace when-       geaieof Tf aetama  in effast.
Newpaer  iroitlo (e  tho..a.ad ceralatioa   - Shee  the  -esaj  nier-2-
odme of Peed Fre1ducirprCpt,1197A)-Idno  pen cePit. .-.a.I                                     tier of 'deily genera Interet newPpe"dfidsaaaldiape-
prodontiono   l  fond  -nesdittee.  Prodcccicnencladeenad and fend nod                       li-eti-n devoted primalily no recording ganra-       nme   In t  c.osidas-d
Is or calod1    pear hanin.  Cewaditie..c...ee polmey goode (eg   uaae                      i  be  daily. if in appearsI at leat fou  nime a wek.
Linatand of sugan) ehih ac  edible and contain nunni-tf  (eg  cfe  ad                     uaeaAnulAtk           dnc   e  Cett par Tsa   - based en nh.               o f
isa ar  eeclded).  Aggregate DroduoctLor of each coucry Ie bese  o                            Icken  sold dorlef the peso. intldieg adaisio.s no dete-in ola
national average,producer. lpclcnreighI;19-A,97.ad197  dai..
PercaIt  sppy  f  alris  cecet of r-,icanoi) - Cenputnd fro n.mbl.uie
eeng9ysqoivlelot of net Fool sopplie avilable in  --nty penc -pine                     FnORPECE
Perdy       vilable eepplies coprise dom-tic pdocti-c, inpot lteen-                     Total Lobor Pooce (ihoonnds) - lEn..sinallp  active parnt, tandigi
norn  notheogec In  tick.  fee  uoppls  eno -Iudr enlml fend, seeds,                  Iermed In mao and on-ployed hat ecuighoele,see ,ec
qu-ntitiee und in food Process.iLo, and loners in dilatibutiLn.  iRquire-                 lafnitti-n  in various  .. tcanisa are not cemparable; 1960  1970 sa
aecie were estmated by FAt O..eed en phyniologicel -nds for norma  act-                   1978 dana.
vicy aed hanli tho...idecing  nnnostltempeer-n., body w-ight, age                       femal  (peccat) - Femal  lebc force as p-rcesrg. of itotl 1tima form.
end ... distribution of pnpalatios, aed elsc  1   eren  f"c nos.Iet                     Aniutaa(e ter           I-Shnfneinf ig   oety  bann  ad
h-onehod lve-l; 1961-1 191170~, and 1907 deta.                                            -ihn          ecetg     Io oa  laborfrei            90  NDad17   es
fa pcit. nuppl  of peotei  (grt  Den- day) - Pro talc conten  of Per capita            Industry  peer)- Labor force In mining, tornteutaneos, meafaresaita
not supply cf food per day.  eNt eupply of food to deftoed an above   Is-                 aed ele tricty,etredgsa   eneae  fttllbrfoe 
hoir-ent  for el        nt .netablinhed bydUSIA provide for minimum                       1970 end 1978 dana.t,
leoeaof 60 grate a  total peecie per dy mod 20 grams of aetnal end                 Participation mane fe--ene  - total, male, and fana1a - factinipante   an
Doe. prrt,of ehich 10 frameghould he eniml protein.  These. a-d-                          activity nones  ler  computed ned tonal, male, and P ami  lab.e fernsm
arda  r  loe   hntoeof 75 gram  of tots1 protein nod 23 gaSt                I tancestn.e. of ntao   male and  fea1l  popa1ation of  atega  epninly,
anImalpnte en . .en aveag  for the -mld, proposed bp PAO in the Third                    11,17,ed17   aa                  hs   r    l'   atrpns   ae   n  ata
cAccpd. Food Survey;p1,9j61-,19,1I9.70 and 1977 data.                                      at-n    nucrr  of the peolTio-n1, adiengI p1tees  .trand. A   am ant-1
Pe  cpta prtird upyfo  aimal and Dulen-Pconadn  supply of foo-'d:I-                        manaer  foa   nari lalaocce
rtvvd from     ,~ anaainae   Dlar  I  can  per day  1961-l  19cc197 977. dae            gceeic epJ.nvRai  - Rati.oef popolattan ogden ID  -d 65  Andns
Child  ees 1-) St  itel   lane (pee thooaad) - Annua  deafEn Pen thoo-sa  in             in. rho ntal. lebb  ferns.
age group 1-4 years, to  hbildrn  in thIs age g-ap; Lot motdvlpleg   oo
elee. data derived fco life rablan; 1960, 1N70 and 1977 dena. INCOtfI DIS¶RIeUTIAN
HEALTH    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                           enana  o   rvte Income (both in  eah tad hind) -   -i-rfed by rinhet
.if~ a  aennoa   ub(er)-Aeaenthro   er   flf   aana                                               ecn, rlnheat 20  ereon, p_srt $8 pennant,  -ad y-atm 40 pae-t
K~h   "'I     k7l.g.  -b-l -f   It. -f lf. l-i-i       of beans Iholds.
at irth; 1980, 1970 and 1N7B data.
Eaf_at  ortality Rat   plee  theoaaod( - Ann-s deaths of infate under one yea             FOVIITY TARGET GROUPS
of se Pen theutand ILv  birtbs.                                                           rsoae    helt   een   nem   sa   US   a   ais-Vhma    ta
A_..ae to Info Wter feent of               tirlaln) - total, arben  and rora1 - N~Abeelees  roer   Once-  lanai Ls thte Lneam   lee   sa  sIRnbdel
N-bahe  of peoples (rn l.buh, and mIni.)  ith reasonable encea. to eafe                       .tt.slI    -.d.tpu    .-i1- -                                            .-
water sapply (inludes  tanned  ucfaee estae on omn..eted hat onoratanioatd                   rafritdesly   dqnsde   lu    aana   a-ee                    mn        .i   a
wate   -hc Ia nthe from protncrtd borbhnle,  pringe, end e.itsry amils  sa                tattatd Relative Povety IS.-m Lee-I (U75) psaceei)-  o Aa
Percenta.es of ntierspcev  pouain . I  at u-bn area a Public                                 Rlar1 rlaltive povety ILotma leve  isoetid   tvra   pesy
fnannsio or atadprat loca.ted oar Isra than 200 meters from  a house say heberonL oo     nf the  -eatry.  Coben linea  ie dee-d fee  nta  -ea
-cond.....big   iti  ras bla  -ccea  of that boost.  I   ua   rs                             ee  rit  ajut ment fo   ibrcs   nlvn    subns
reenhl  aces  onId Ini  that the h-o..oif.  rmnbr   f   ahoushold                      EsItimtedPraalo        _el,   taoist Penyiget           tnel(a,)   
do  ct hav  no sped adisprop-tri...   pac  of the day to fetching the                         n    el    ecn  ofP pboplato    abnadeae)es   s    bseeps5
dip  Is nparnegsof their repciepopulatine.  E.oesn  dIe-                                                               Eoo-sal  and Sonini Dana Dil.isi
pslmp Inclde the calarenad dispnaal, rOth -c  itheatiramn ttoonain Analyst isa  Peejantiem  Dapeatsat
of huma  secrts end e-teI- eaner hy wate-hlore  syate          rceseo                                                                          o     1960
eit privies end similarEselaoa



- 22 -
RC0lNDtIC IKDICATORE                                                                       ANIEX I
Population:  2.9 million  (1979)                                                                                                                                               Page 4
GNP For Capitat  W01.060  (1979)
AMount                         AverAge Annual Inereese (%)                    Share of GDP at Market Price  (7.)
Indicator                                                lriltion USSerret)                                                                     19sgnint 1977 Dricei.  (et current orice.)
!19                           l962-70  !970-75        !9~75-80              1965        190.95               1980
National Ac-ount.
Gr... donstic product                                          3.415                              4.4         6.2         10.4                100.0      100.0    100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                                  1,073                               1.6        6.1          7.2                 36.7       32 1      36.9       30.9
Industry                                                       756                              6.0         6.5        15.3                 18,1        19.6      19.6       22.7
Service                                                     1,586                               6.1         6.2        10.6                 45.2        48.3      43.5       46.4
Conacoption                                                    2,858                              4 1         3.7         10.2                 661        65.7       76.7       7e.0
Gross Inveatnent                                                 976                               6.0       15.9         20.0                 15 1       14.7      24.1        2898
loporte of goods end X7PS                                        616                              3.8        12.1        12.2                  16,1       16.0      16.8        21.2
I.ports of goode end XFS                                      1,035                               3.9         5.8        19.8                  17.2       16.4      17.6        27.9
Gr.s.  do.,etic  -ving.                                          557                               5.3       25.0         11.4                 13.9       14.3       23.3       22.0
A-ount                         Average  Annual Increase (7)                   Copoitin of Merchandise Trade (7)
t.illion US0  current)                  (at cnsDtant 197l nrice1                             (St currnt price)
1979                          1965-70   1970-75       1975-80               1905        1970       975       19S0
Merchandise Trade
Merhandiee enporte                                             520                              3,6        16.4         9.6
Mer chadi.a  inporta                                           863                              5.3         6.0        19.9                 100.0      100.0    100.0       100.0
Food                                                          20                             -1.7      -10.7         19.4                 10,9         8.2       3.3        2.0
Petroleuo,                                                   88                              11.0        1.9          7.5                  8.5         8.1      14.4       11.5
Machinery and equipe Dt                                      146                             -0.5        14.0        13.8                 26.7        24.2      22.2       16.5
Other                                                       609                               3.0        19.0        20.1                 53.9        59.5      60.1       69.7
1975           1976            1977            1978            1979
Pri.s. and TomLgs ofrZd
G.? defltor  (1977-100)                                                        87.2           91.6           100.0            110.4           133.1
Exchange rate  (4/USS)                                                       126.0           126.0           126.0            126.0          126.0
Enport prIee inde-                                                             72.3           75.5           100.0             95.4           104.9
Import price iden                                                            98.3            92.4           100.0            110.3           130.6
Ter=t  of trade ioden                                                          73.6           81.7           100.0              6 .5           80.3
A. X of GDP
(at current price.)
Pcblit  Pinaece (Central AdMinitration)                                1965    1970    1975        1979
Current revenue                                                     10 4    11.7       9.4       10.1
Current enpenditure                                                  8.4    10.2       7.6        6.7
S_rplue (+) or d.fitit (-)                                           1.9      1.5       1.8       3.4
Capital et penditcre                                                 1.7      1.9       2.3       2.8
Financing (net)                                                     -0.2       0.4      0.5      -0.6
1962-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85
Other indicators
GNP gro0th rocf (.)                                                4.4              7.0            10.5              9.3
GNP per capito groctrh rate (.)                                    1.7              4.1             7.6              6.4
ICOR                                                               2 9              2.4             2.4              3.0
Marginal  -aviugs rote                                            27.3             5330            24.5             23.4
Import elocticity                                                  1.1              1.0             1.9              0.9
March 31. 1961



- 23 -
BAAIMCE OF PAHMTM. EXTUNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                               ANNEX 7
(Million 08$ at utrrent prices)                                                     Page 5
Population: 2.9 million (1979)
GNP Per Capita: Us$1,060 (1979)
Actual                    ./e                                Proiected
1976      1977       1978      1979        1980               1981       1992      1983       1984       1985
BALiaNCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods end services                           -136.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -549                   -465      -500       -566      -558       -557
Exports of goods awd servic.e                              273.0     409.2      503.3      661.1     693               1,009      1,237      1,519     1,891      2,320
Import of goods and services                               409.6     600.0      846.9   1,095.5   1,242                1,474      1,737     2,085      2,449      2,877
Net transfers                                                  4.2        1.2       5.8        7.3      14                   16        17         19        21         23
Current account balance                                     -132.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -534                   -450      -483       -547      -537       -534
Direct private investment                                     11.4       17.0      21.9       51.9      57                   63        69         76        84         92
MOLT loano net                                                64.0      121.9     134.9      111.0     242                   54       158        250       366        448
Official                                                    50.0      47.6       89.6       38.9     115                  44         69         76        75         80
Private                                                     14.0      74.3       45.3       72.1     127                  10         90        173       292        368
Other capital                                                107.1     159.6      349.7     432.8      403                  371       300        280       148         65
Change in reserveu  (- - increase)                           -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167                   -39        -44        -58       -61        -71
Interoational reserves                                       161.5     269.4      438.1     606.6      774                 812        857       915        976      1,047
Reserveo as months of imports                                  4.7        3.4       6.2        6.6        7.5                6.6        6.0        5.3       4.8        4.4
EXTEEIAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disburs.emnts                                           74.0     139.2      147.0     157.2
..Cocces.ioal loslt                                        30.7       26.9       38.3      21.1
DAC                                                      10.4        4.6      28.4        5.8
IDA                                                       2.6        5.2        5.3       3.6
Other                                                    17.7       17.1       4.6       11.7
Nos-concessienal loans                                     43.3      112.2      108.7     136.1
Official export credits                                   9.5        8.1      10.1       29.2
IaD                                                       4.6        6.9        7.8      16.4
Other multilateral                                          -         -        9.6        4.3
Private                                                  29.2       97;3      81.2       86.2
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                            280.6      393.2      520.6     628.7
Official                                                180.7      219.9     297.4      329.7
Privat.                                                  99.9      175.3     223.1      299.1
Undisburoed debt                                          228.6      211.3      307.7     515.0
Debt service
Total service payments                                     31.3       42.6      49.9       81.5
Interest                                                  9.6       12,7      18,0       30.0
Paymests an 7. exports                                     11.5       10.4        9.9      12.3
Average interest rate on new loans ()
Official                                                    5.6        6.6        6.6       6.5
Private                                                     8.4        7.5      10.3        8.4
Average maturity ofsnew loans (ysara)
Official                                                   23.7       20,2       23,3      21.1
Private                                                     7.0        7.2       8.4       10,7
As % of Debt Outsttnding
at End of Most Ascent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
MSturitien due  itibin 5 years                                                                           34.6
Maturities due witbin 10 years                                                                           96.1
lotcre-t structure of debt sutstaLding
Interest due vithin first year                                                                            3.1                                            March 31, 1981
/e Estimate.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (February 28, 1981) 1/
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and seven credits fully disbursed 2/              35.8   45.8 3/
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                 14.5       -         .6
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies          -    4.0         2.8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0       -        2.9
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0       -       18.0
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0       -        2.4
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0       -        3.5
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0       -       17.6
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0      -       13.3
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                 39.0       -       39.0
1780           1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0      -        5.0
1866 4/        1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0        -       31.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  229.3   49.8       136.1
of which has been repaid                     10.9    1.5
Total now outstanding                         218.4   48.3
Amount sold                        1.3
of which has been repaid         0.4          0.9
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    217.5   48.3
Total undisbursed                                                136.1
1/   In April and May 1981, two loans (Livestock Development, US$30.0 million,
and Fourth Education, US$17.0 million respectively) have been made but have
not been signed yet.
2/   Includes Credit 509-PA and Loan 1252-T for which final disbursements have
just been made.
3/   Includes exchange adjustment.
4/   Not effective



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - February 28, 1981
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                      Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing         4.4       1.0      5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)       Hotel Development       0.9       0.3      1.2
Total gross commitments less
cancellat.ions, terminations,
repayments and sales                              5.3      1.3       6.6
Total undisbursed                                     -        -         -



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978; the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) was
completed in July 1980. The closing date of June 30, 1980 was extended until
June 30, 1981 to allow for the use of the uncommitted balance of loan funds
(US$1.1 million) for the purchase of spare parts for rehabilitation of mainte-
nance equipment. The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway mainte-
nance and for preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task.
The latter study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway
Project - Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial
progress on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which has led to the preparation of
a second operation, recently approved. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1980 to December 31, 1981 to permit making final payments to
study consultants and finance additional technical assistance requirements.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to be completed by the present closing date
of June 30, 1981. About 25 associated rural primary schools, 27 community
learning centers, and 2 secondary schools are completed. Construction of
54 new rural primary schools as well as of five secondary schools are being
completed. Satisfactory progress has been made in contracting technical
assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook production and in-
service teacher training programs. Total project cost is expected to be about
3% lower than originally estimated, due mainly to reduction of rural school
construction specifications.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
In spite of initial delays, this project is now being implemented
satisfactorily. Most contracts for major roads, community centers, health
posts and centers have been awarded; the remaining works should be tendered
for and contracts awarded before June 30, 1981. Completion of land titles,
is about 95% of appraisal estimates. Crop production in the Project area is
impressive, particularly the stands of soybean and maize. Seasonal loans,
however, are down slightly from last year's level. This is attributed to
farmers experience of relatively unattractive crop prices last season, to the
increase in the effective interest rates from 12 to 18% charged by BNF for
seasonal and medium-term loans, and to a shortage of administrative field
staff to process all loan applications in good time.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in
part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a
capital contribution of ¢ 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.
BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficiently effective
in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improve-
ments, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has
been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 46 sub-
projects with small-scale enterprises accounting for most of them. Disburse-
ments, however, were running somewhat behind schedule. Since BNF has already
met the conditions for releasing the pending amounts under the Loan's second
tranche (US$6.0 million), an additional US$4.0 million has been made available
to finance subprojects.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. A six
month delay which had resulted from a late effectiveness may be reduced.
Up to date 45 projects for the same number of community (91% of total) have
been approved. Forty-four communities have currently signed contract with
SENASA for the implementation of these projects. The second annual purchase
program (1980) has been satisfactory carried out. As of February 28, 1981
loan disbursements amounted to US$2.50 million. The proposed new project has
been designed so as to cover new areas with both water supply and sanitary
facilities; special emphasis is being placed on the southeastern part of the
country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, are expected to be completed by
September/October 1981. Construction and supervision contracts for the Coronel
Oviedo-San Estanislao road have been signed and work is well underway.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
There is considerable variation in project implementation among the
various components. As of December 31, 1980, FG had committed about 88% of
the credit funds with highest percentage of disbursements among medium and
small producers. Credit demand remains high and a new project is being
proposed. The rural development component is only beginning. The major
problems are lack of an adequate number of technicians in BNF and SEAC (the
extension agency), failure to initiate the road building component, lack of
vehicles for field technicians and failure of BNF to implement needed admin-
istrative and organizational changes at the branch office level. The whole-
sale market component is progressing well, the long term marketing advisor
is now on the job, bids have been received and contracts awarded for the
construction of the market as well as for supervision of the work. Prepara-
tion for the agricultural census component is being carried out slowly. The
Bank is disbursing for the purchase of 10 vehicles needed to begin field work
for the census.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has received proposals from consultants to assist the
establishment of Feeder Roads Unit, but the Bank has not yet received the
recommendations for awarding of the contract. The Government's Feeder Roads
Coordinating Committee has been established by Decree. Procedures for contract-
ing the design of feeder roads are under way. Contracts have been awarded for
the construction of the two sections of Route 6; works are scheduled to start
in mid-1981.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The technical assistance component, financed by UNDP with the
Bank as executing agency is progressing well: advisors have been appointed
to the Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Agriculture. The Financial
Programming Division in the Ministry of Finance has initiated its activities
and is actively involved in assessing the public sector's investment and
financing needs for the medium-term., A pipeline of preinvestment studies has
been prepared which is pending review by the National'Preinvestment Council.
The National Projects Office has also reviewed some of the financial issues
involved in the granting of subloans by the Preinvestment Fund and made
recommendations to the Central Bank. The Executive Committee of the Preinvest-
ment fund has been fully staffed.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Closing Date: December 31,
1984).
This loan has not become effective yet.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SECOND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:   12 months
(b)  Preparation by:   Government (SENASA) with PAHO and Bank
assistance
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: November 1979
(d) First Bank Mission: March 1980
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:   December 1980
(f) Negotiations: May 1981
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for works representing
some 40% of project costs have been completed. The procurement
program for the second semester of 1981 has been agreed upon. A
general outline of terms of reference for a study of SENASA's staff
compensation which would lead to a plan of action to improve its
staffing situation has been agreed at negotiations.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) A special condition of effectiveness would be the appointment
of management consultants for SENASA (para. 42).
(b) SENASA would present to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1982,
the plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, on the staffing of
SENASA (para. 41).
(c) SENASA would complete all final designs before December 31, 1981
(para. 39).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The contract between each Sanitary Committee and SENASA would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 46).
(e) The tariff system presently used by SENASA would continue to
operate, and tariffs for each community would be reviewed each
year and revised if necessary in order to comply with the revenue
covenant (water charges have to serve the community debt in an
amount which, combined with the initial contribution, amounts to
not less than 22% of the total cost (para. 46).






IBRD 15609
MARCH IAHI
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
,; ~~ X                                  -Z      ot    oA t h 
m                               -                              i*.
_N /\T                  L                        1| b         i   E         m   r   R  AR_A A:"CD
/K1   R 0    //S/// R//j    fSSelet;0b§|furh^c;  4Ll
't' X =2        R
I   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~~~~z
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
- I           ~~~~~Iji~
77S



