Document of
The World Bank                       E COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3051-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
PROPOSED LOAN
TO DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
WITH GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
STATE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
May 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       July 1979       Jan. 1980 /1   Oct. 1980        Jan. 31, 1981
UtS Dollar          TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.0 /3       TL 83.50 /3       IL 98.20 /3
TL 1                US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01        US$ 0.01          US$ 0.01
/1     Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and ics major trading partners. TL 91/$1.00
was used for this report.
/2     Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from
official prices supports, for which it was TL 35 = $1.00.
/3     Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well
as raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate
was TL 55/$1.00 in January 1980, and is TL 70.0/$1.00 from October
1980, and TL 85.34/$1.00 from April 15, 1981.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                  :       March 1 to February 28
Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari A.S.              January 1 to December 31
Karabuk Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari:          January 1 to December 31
Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S.  ;         January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DYB                          Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment
Bank)
Karabuk                      Karabuk Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari (Karabulk
Iron and Steel Works)
KBI                          Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S. (Black Sea
Copper Corporation)
SEE                          State Economic Enterprise
SEKER                       Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari A.S. (Turkish
Sugar Factories Corporation)
SPO                         State Planning Organization
tpd                         Tons per day
tpy                         Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
STATE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) (State Investment Bank)
Guarantor:          Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:      1.  Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari A.S. (SEKER) (Turkish Sugar
Factories Corporation)
2. Karabuk Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari (Karabuk)
(Karabuk Iron and Steel Works)
3. Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S. (KBI) (Black Sea
Copper Corporation)
Amount;             US$70.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:              Substantially in conformity with the aggregate amortization
schedule for subloans, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum.
Relending
Terms:           The Borrower is expected to on-lend the equivalent of about
$22.7 million to SEKER, about $22.3 million to Karabuk, and
$25.0 million to KBI, all for periods not to exceed 15
years including an appropriate period of grace not to
exceed 5 years, with interest at 13.1 percent per annum
plus applicable taxes (resulting in an estimated interest
rate of about 18.5 percent per annum). The beneficiaries
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The project has three interrelated objectives:  (a) the
completion of six high priority ongoing rationalization/
modernization industrial projects of three beneficiary
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs); (b) support of
government initiatives to contribute to an improvement in
the operation and productivity of the SEE sector, through
specific improvements in these beneficiary SEEs; and
(c) the further strengthening and broadening of DYB's
capacity to serve the SEE sector.
The project consists of financing through DYB, of the
following high priority SEE projects: (a) the provision
and installation of machinery and equipment for SEKER to
complete: the expansion of its Ankara and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Susurluk sugar factories and construction of a new sugar
factory at Ilgin; (b) the provision and installation of
machinery and equipment at Karabuk to improve raw material
handling and preparation and the replacement of equipment
and refractories to increase iron production for the
foundry industry; (c) provision of machinery and equipment
to KBI to remove bottlenecks and complete the modernization
and expansion program of its copper mining and
concentration complex at Murgul; and (d) technical
assistance to the beneficiaries for project implementation
and improving plant operation and maintenance, developing
appropriate workers incentive systems, and budget control
and cost accounting systems. In addition, DYB will employ
consultants to assist in project supervision and the
Government wil] undertake a study of the future role of DYB
in the SEE system.
The major benefits of the proposed project are a
substantial increase in the production of essential basic
products from the rationalized facilities, at lower energy
costs and more efficient operations. By project
completion, an estimated 169,000 tons per year (tpy) of
sugar, 300,000 tpy of iron, 20,700 tpy of blister copper,
180,000 tpy of sulphuric acid and 118,000 tpy of pyrite
concentrate will be produced and an estimated $240 million
per year of foreign exchange saved. In addition, DYB's
appraisal and supervision capacity is expected to be
augmented, and its impact on the development of the SEE
sector enhanced in furtherance of the Government's
structural adjustment program. Technical risks are
considered reasonable, since the project deals with
existing plants and uses commercially proven technology.
The major risks are delays in implementation and increased
costs, both of which have been mitigated by providing,
where necessary, specialized technical expertise.



- 111 -
Estimated Cost:                                    Local      Foreign        Total
__________  Million----------
I. Sugar (SEKER)
Plant expansion and completion            102.2        23.0        125.2
Contingencies                              24.6         5.4         30.0
Technical assistance                        0.5         1.0          1.5
Project cost                         127.3        29.4         156.7
Interest during constuction                14.4         3.4         17.8
Working capital                            12.9          -          12.9
Financing required                   154.6        32.8         187.4
II. Iron (Karabuk)
Plant rationalization                      18.3        20.8         39.1
Contingencies                               3.8         4.8          8.6
Technical assistance                        0.3         0.8          1.1
Project cost                          22.4        26.4         48.8
Interest during construction              12.3          3.9         16.2
Working capital                             6.7          -           6.7
Financing required                    41.4        30.3          71.7
III. Copper (KBI)
Plant rationalization                       4.8        18.0         22.8
Contingencies                               1.5         5.5          7.0
Technical assistance                        0.3         1.2          1.5
Project cost                           6.6        24.7          31.3
Interest during construction               4.2          3.0          7.2
Working capital                             1.8         0.3          2.1
Financing required                    12.6        28.0          40.6
Total Project Costs                  156.3        80.5        236.8
Total Interest during
construction                          30.9        10.3          41.2
Total Working capital                 21.4         0.3          21.7
Total Financing Required             208.6        91.1        299.7
Financing Plan:                                  Local      Foreign      Total
---------  Million---------
I.  Sugar (SEKER)
Bank Loan                                    -         22.7        22.7
DYB Loan                                   30.0         0.2        30.2
SEKER:  internal funds                   111.6          8.7       120.3
Commercial banks and
supplier's credits                      13.0          1.2        14.2
Total                            154.6        32.8       187.4



- iv -
Local       Foreign    Total
II.  Iron (Karabuk)                             -----     $ Million---------
Bank Loan                                     -         22.3         22.3
DYB loan                                    25.8         2.2         28.0
Karabuk:  internal funds                    15.6         5.8         21.4
Total                              41.4        30.3         71.7
III. Copper (KBI)
Bank Loan                                     -         25.0         25.0
DYB loan                                     5.3          -           5.3
KBI:  internal funds                         7.3         3.0         10.3
Total                              12.6        28.0        40.6
TOTAL FINANCING                  208.6         91.1       299.7
Estimated Disbursements:                         ---------- $ Million        …
Bank FY            1982    1983      1984    1985    1986
Annual:              7.0    20.0       24.0   12.0       7.0
Cumulative:          7.0    27.0       51.0   63.0    70.0
Economic Rate of Return:
About 31 percent, representing a weighted
average of:
Sugar: 23.3 percent
Iron:   41.1 percent
Copper: over 100 percent
Appraisal Report:                Report No. 3390-TU, dated April 20, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
FOR A STATE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE FINANCE PROJECT
I    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) (State Investment Bank), with the guarantee of
the Republic of Turkey, for the equivalent of US$70 million to help finance
the foreign exchange costs of a State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project.
The loan would be repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to subborrowers. The interest rate on
the Bank loan would be 9.6 percent per annum. The equivalent of about $22.7
million, $22.3 million, and $25.0 million, respectively, would be onlent by
DYB to Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari (SEKER), Karabuk Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari
(Karabuk), and Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri (KBI) for 15 years including an
appropriate period of grace not to exceed 5 years, at 13.1 percent per annum
plus applicable taxes, which results in an effective interest rate of about
18.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.   A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to evaluate
the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled "Turkey: Policies
and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979 and its Postscript
on March 24, 1980. An appraisal mission for the Second Structural Adjustment
loan visited Turkey in February 1981. Its findings are reflected below.
Annex I contains the basic Country Data, and provides updated information on
recent economic developments.
Characteristics and Constraints
3.   Turkey is a large country (about as big as France and Germany combined),
with an estimated GNP per capita of $1,330. With a population of around 43
million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural land),
and the rate of urbanization high (about 45 percent). Educational enrollments
have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult illiteracy remains high (40
percent). Although population growth is not high by middle-income country
standards (2.5 percent per annum), the employment situation has deteriorated
steadily, with the unemployment rate about 20 percent, despite rapid economic
growth, and substantial emigration of workers to Western Europe in the early
1970s. Almost no one in Turkey lives in absolute poverty but income
I/ This part is identical to Part I of the President's Report on the Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3034-TU) dated April 20, 1981.



- 2 -
distribution is relatively unequal by international standards, and urban
social services are under considerable pressure. Income distribution
deteriorated in the middle 1960s but improved through the early 1970s. Data
for more recent periods is incomplete, but indicates a worsening especially of
the position of wage and salary earners over the last few years, with a sharp
real decline in the minimum wage. There are considerable regional
differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy, contributing
25 percent of GDP (1980), employing about 60 percent of the total labor force,
and providing the majority of merchandise exports (60 percent in 1980). As a
result, Turkey is one of the very few developing countries which is
self-sufficient in food. Yet, agriculture has been given a secondary role
compared to industry in Turkish development strategy. The main sector
objectives have been to (a) expand food supply for a growing population, and
(b) provide exports to finance the country's industrial effort. Turkish
agriculture is dualistic, with a modern irrigated commercial sector using
modern inputs in coastal areas to produce cash crops and most exports,
alongside traditional rainfed agriculture on the Anatolian plateau emphasizing
grains and livestock. Only a small part of the irrigation potential has been
developed despite massive investments, partly because these have emphasized
large slow-gestation projects.
5.       With its climatic, soil, water and human resources, Turkey has
considerable potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The
major constraints on agricultural growth and productivity are: (a) limited
development of irrigation and drainage facilities and poor utilization of what
has been developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings (over 70 percent of
holdings are less than 5 hectares; over 95 percent less than 20 hectares); (c)
inadequately funded and poorly coordinated research and extension services;
(d) insufficient availability of credit; and (e) inadequate marketing
arrangements, especially for export. Improvements in productivity could be
realized with a somewhat larger and more efficient allocation of investments,
backed by more coherent credit and price policies and support services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of Turkish development strategy on
rapid industrialization, manufacturing industry has absorbed about 25 to 30
percent of total investment. As a result, manufacturing today accounts for 21
percent of GDP, 38 percent of exports (mainly textiles -- about 50 percent --
and processed foods and leather products), but only 14 percent of employment.
The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in exports, and accounts for
some 60 percent of value-added, and an even higher share of employment.
7.       Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency through
import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for
capital-intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. As a
result, capital/labor ratios have risen rapidly. Exports have generally been
given a secondary role, and account for only 6 to 7 percent of sector output.
The principal policy instruments used have been large public investments in



- 3 -
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and generous incentives combined with high
levels of protection for private investments. These policies have yielded
high growth rates, domestic production of some important basic and
intermediate goods based on local natural resources, adoption of modern
technology and training of a skilled labor force, as well as some dispersal of
modern industries to less developed regions. But they have also resulted in
the establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries, wasteful of scarce
capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low employment and limited
export possibilities.
8.       The major constraints to industrial development, which the Government
is attempting to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization; (b)
limited export capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the
manufacturing SEEs; (d) uneven quality of investments; and (e) lack of
sufficient long-term financing for industry.
9.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but very little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line
with GDP but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported petroleum accounts for over 85 percent of
petroleum consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a
result, the oil bill was $3.3 billion in 1980, equivalent to 113 percent of
merchandise exports, probably the highest figure in the world.
10.      The energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products -- especially petroleum products -- have been brought
belatedly into line with world prices or other indices of real costs to the
economy. Investment in energy has the largest share in the public investment
program. The principal constraints in the sector are: (a) organization and
management of the main sector institutions; (b) the lack of a comprehensive
conservation program; (c) over-dependence on petroleum, especially imported
petroleum; (d) insufficient resources for exploration; and (e) poor project
implementation capacity, especially in the coal/lignite sub-sector.
Effectiveness of Government Policies
11.      Fffective public policies in the period from 1950 until the early
1970s were responsible for the achievement of rapid economic growth, with
substantial growth in industrial capacity. Both the pattern of growth and the
degree of recourse to external finance, however, resulted in the substantial
problems with which Turkey is confronted today. At the same time, income
distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation inadequate;
savings performance poor; and the industrial structure created to achieve
import-substitution behind high protection, in many cases inefficient.
Industry absorbed large investment resources yet provided neither exports nor
employment at sufficient levels.



- 4 -
12.      Since the early 1970s, economic management has suffered due to
political instability at home, which has thwarted effective decision-making.
At the same time, economic problems have increased in complexity due to
serious economic shocks emanating from abroad -- international inflation,
leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's import prices (including oil) and a
significant deterioration in her terms of trade, high interest rates resulting
in an increased debt servicing burden, and recession in Western Europe leading
to reduced export prospects and emigration possibilities. Inappropriate
(expansionary) policies in response to the crisis delayed Turkey's adjustment
to the changed international environment, so that by 1977 the country was in a
severe foreign exchange crisis. Since then, it has taken some time to evolve
a new set of policies more appropriate to Turkey's current difficult
situation. Since the late 1970s, however, the Government has made a series of
efforts -- exemplified in the stabilization programs, worked out in close
consultation with the IMF, in early 1978, 1979 and 1980 -- to restore price
stability, creditworthiness, and a balance in domestic and external finances.
On balance, given the exceptional nature of the difficulties of the last few
years, and when compared to the record of other developing countries, the
record of Turkish economic management has been a good one.
Government Policy Priorities
13.      Turkey's long-term development strategy has been aimed at modernizing
the country through rapid growth based on high rates of investment, the main
emphasis being on industrialization, the use of the most modern technology,
and self-sufficiency. A long-term aim set in the early 1970s was to reach the
then current Italian standard of living by the time of proposed EEC membership
for Turkey in 1995. Social development has been a prominent objective along
with economic transformation. Consistent emphasis has been placed on the
integration and development of backward regions. However, with high rates of
emigration in the 1960s and early 1970s employment pressures have been
minimal, and employment creation has not been given a high priority. Among
sectors, industry and power have been emphasized rather than agriculture.
14.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has set about to restore political order, following a
period of rampant terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process
(evidenced by the failure to elect a new President and to enact laws) and
widespread labor unrest. One of the first acts of the new regime was to end
the numerous strikes and lock-outs which had seriously disrupted the economy
(the number of strike-days lost in 1980 was 20 percent more than the total for
the previous eight years). The military have emphasized that, as in the prior
interventions in 1960-61 and 1971-73, they will revert to constitutional rule
and transfer power back to civilian authorities once order has been restored.
15.      Since January 1980, there has been a substantial shift in policy
priorities, which the new regime has strongly endorsed, but the Government has
continued to focus much more on short-term than on medium-term concerns.
Also, in view of the severity of the immediate financial stringency, the
Covernment has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and of



- 5 -
social objectives in order to bring down inflation and improve the balance of
payments as quickly as possible. The Fourth Plan macroeconomic targets have
been tacitly abandoned, along with medium-term planning in general. Financial
aspects of economic management, especially availability of local currency and
foreign exchange, have come to dominate policy concerns. In development
issues, there has been a change in sectoral emphasis to favor the development
of energy and agriculture at the expense of that of manufacturing especially
as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned. There is a
return to a traditional view of the division of labor between the public and
the private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the
provision of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to
industrial growth and exports. Development strategy has been changed to give
much greater weight to exports relative to import-substitution. Finally, and
most significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as
against more centralized planning.
Investment, Savings and Projected Capital Requirements
16.      The Government's development strategy committed it to raising the
level of investment relative to GDP at a fairly rapid rate. Total investment
increased at a 15-20 percent annual rate in real terms over the decade
1967-77, with public investment growing at a more pronounced rate than
private. Since 1977, both public and private investment have been declining
in real terms; with private investment falling at a faster rate, the public
sector share is now approaching 60 percent. The sharp decline in investment
since 1977 reflects the severe shortage of domestic and external resources
that has existed since then.
17.      While the rate of investment rose from 19 percent of GDP in 1967 to
26 percent in 1977, savings stayed virtually constant at an average of around
17 percent of GDP. This widening in the savings-investment gap was
comparatively greater in the public sector; in 1972-73 public savings amounted
to 9 percent of GDP and were more than sufficient to cover public investment,
but by 1977 they declined to 7 percent of GDP and covered only 55 percent of
public investment. In the private sector, the savings rate also declined
during these years (from 11 to 9 percent of GDP). Over the last three years,
savings performance continued to be poor in both the public sector, where the
Government has had to bear the large financial losses of the SEEs, and the
private sector.
18.      The growing gap between domestic savings and investment was
increasingly financed by both medium and short-term borrowing from abroad.
Turkey obtained increased support and debt rescheduling from the members of
the OECD Consortium for Turkey and diversified its aid relationships with OPEC
countries (especially Saudi Arabia). Loan commitments, which totalled $2.5
billion during 1972-75, increased to $8.0 billion during 1976-79. Medium and
long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed rose from $2.5 billion at
the end of 1972 to $4.8 billion by 1977 and an estimated $12.8 billion by
1980. Gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 were around $1.1 billion.



- 6 -
19.      The estimation of capital requirements over the medium-term is
particularly hazardous at this juncture. Nevertheless, if the investment rate
is projected at 21 percent of GDP over the next five years, and gross domestic
savings at 18 percent of GDP by 1985, a slight rise, the current account
deficit in current dollars can be projected to decrease to 4 percent of GDP by
1985 (compared to about 5 percent in 1980). Considering the limitation on
available external assistance and given the need for continued sound external
debt management, Turkey can sustain the implied current account deficits of
the order of $3-3.5 billion annually in 1981 and 1982, given further
quick-disbursing assistance. The deficits are projected to increase gradually
to around $4 billion annually in the mid 1980s, but it should be possible to
finance an increasing proportion from commercial sources without endangering
creditworthiness, provided the commercial banks become willing to resume
lending to Turkey on a net basis. Taking into account the substantial
obligations for debt amortization, despite agreed and prospective debt
rescheduling, large annual gross inflows of foreign capital will be required,
rising steadily from $3 to $7 billion per annum during the next five years, to
permit a reasonable rate of growth.
20.      Past and prospective movements of the main macroeconomic indicators
are shown in the Table below.



- 7 -
MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Levels                   Average Annual
(Units)      Actual   Estimated   Projected    Real Growth Rates
1975       1980        1985         1975-80   1980-85
A.  GDP                        1978 $bn        44.9       53.1        65.3             3.4       4.2
B.  Exports of goods           Current $bn       1.4       2.9         7.9             6.4       11.7
Imports of goods               "            4.7        6.9        13.1           -7.2        4.0
- oil:  value                 "           (0.8)      (3.3)       (6.8)           8.9        5.5
volume           m. tons         (9.8)    (13.1)       (17.2)            8.9       5.5
Current account
balance                 Current $bn    -1.9         -2.8        -4.1
Gross Public M&LT
capital inflows /1                        0.3        2.0         3.1
Net Public M&LT
capital inflows A1"                      0.2        1.0        ,1.0
Period Averages
C.  Investment/GDP                 %           24         21  -       21             24         21
Gross domestic
savings/GDP                              17         17          18             18         17
Marginal national
savings rate                             27     Negative        26             17         26
D. Exports of goods/GDP
(current prices)             %           4          6           8
Oil imports/Exports
of goods                     "           58        113          86
Current account
balance/GDP                  %           -5         -5          -4
Debt service ratio /2          "            8         12          41
Terms of trade             1978=100       100         78          77
/1 Includes private guaranteed and non-guaranteed debt.
/2 Differs from figures in previous reports due to (i) taking account of debt relief provided
through the debt rescheduling arrangements; and (ii) use of the standard definition which
excludes interest on short-term debt.



- 8 -
21.      Given the accumulation of economic problems, the substantially
increased cost of oil imports, and the difficulty of significantly increasing
the net inflow of capital, Bank projections suggest that GDP growth per annur
may only average around 4 percent in real terms, provided lurkey achieves a
real growth of exports of about 11 percent per annum and can attract the
projected inflows of external capital during 1980-1985. These growth rates
appear attainable, assuming continuation of appropriate economic measures, and
taking into account the low export base and market prospects especially in the
OPEC countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity. The
inflation rate should come down progressively. However, employment prospects
are less sanguine, and even if substantial efforts are made, the unemployment
rate is likely to rise significantly above its already high level.
22.      The future rate of international inflation (including oil price
increases) will have a major impact on future prospects. It is estimated that
even if the volume of oil imports in 1980 had been held at 1977 levels, the
inflationary cost increase would have been around $1.8 billion; similarly, in
1980 the inflationary cost increase alone of the 1977 volume of Turkish
imports from OECD countries would have been around $1.7 billion. During
1980-1985, even if Turkey allows the volume of oil imports to increase only as
fast as GDP, the oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.3 to $6.8
billion; as a percentage of exports of goods, the oil bill was equivalent to
113 percent in 1980 and is likely to decline only slowly to 86 percent in
1985. The pressure this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of
payments position is obvious.
23.      A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements in
trade policies towards Turkey. The benefits expected from Turkey's 1963
Association Agreement with the European Economic Community (EEC) have been
progressively eroded by the associate membership of other southern European
countries, trade and other agreements with Mediterranean countries and the
privileges accorded to signatories of the Lom6 Conventions, and by EEC
restrictions on labor movement and on textile exports. Revised agreements
between the EEC and Turkey in 1977 and 1980 have only partly compensated for
this erosion, but offer hope for a better future relationship. On the other
hand, Turkey has succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares
for both OPEC countries and the centrally planned economies.
Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1977, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden.  Its
adjustment to the international economic shocks of the previous few years had
been delayed partly by resorting to large-scale external borrowing, especially
short-term borrowing. Short-term debt outstanding increased from $216 million
at end 1974 to $7.5 billion by end 1978, when total medium and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed was $6.8 billion. When external confidence
collapsed in 1977, Turkey was left with service payment obligations for 1978
(mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion (including arrears), or nearly
three times the value of merchandise exports in 1977. Prolonged discussions



- 9 -
with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an agreement in July 1979 to
reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term liabilities, including some
$2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits and $400 million banker's
credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR),
with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace) and $300 million in third party
reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent above LIBOR, but with an
accelerated repayment schedule). Some $0.3 billion in oil loans were also
rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on unguaranteed trade
credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1 billion. As a result of
these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at end 1980 was $3.3 billion.
Finally, in January 1981 leading commercial banks agreed in principle to
extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling. A series of
large-scale rescheduling operations relating to medium and long-term official
debt also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980 OECD member creditors
rescheduled $1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion, respectively, of debt service
obligations and accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some
re-rescheduling). The terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years
including 4 to 5 years of grace, and it provided debt relief estimated at $1.1
billion in 1980 and another $0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts
thereafter.
25.      The effect of these debt rescheduling exercises on Turkey's debt
structure and debt service profile has been dramatic and has led to a
substantial revision of previous projections. Service payments on short-term
debt are now of manageable proportions. The estimated medium and long-term
debt service ratio for 1979 was 14 percent, and for 1980 12 percent (of
exports of goods and non-factor services and workers' remittances). During
the next 5 years, however, much of the rescheduled debt must be repaid. As a
result the ratio is expected to climb rapidly again, to 41 percent in 1985 and
a peak of 45 percent in the late 1980s. These figures, which are still in the
process of being finalized, compare with 26 percent for 1979, and a peak of 45
percent by 1984, mentioned in recent President's Reports on loans to Turkey.
Despite the rapid increase the debt burden should remain manageable provided
current policies are successfully implemented, the export drive is sustained,
and Turkey continues to receive further international support from both
private and official donors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
26.      A large lending program for Turkey was begun following the intro-
duction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. Despite the slowdown caused by the
1977-78 crisis, the Bank/IDA have lent to date $2,815 million, through 65
projects. Agriculture accounts for 22 percent of funds lent, industry and
DFCs for 35 percent, power for 13 percent and urban development,
1/ Substantially the same as Part III of the President's Report on the Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3034-TU) dated April 20, 1981.



- 10 -
transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a
summarv statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March
31, 1981, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.      The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the serious external and domestic financial crisis since 1977
have seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system
of joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975. This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements. As of June
1980, disbursements increased to 70 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975. The broad reform of the public sector launched in
January 1980, and pursued with new measures since, allows cautious optimism
that performance can be gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded
by new factors, including shortages of resources.
28.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing a
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the new Government priorities
.(completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments,
and balance of payments impact). The Bank has discussed with the Government
how its overall lending can best contribute to the latter's medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints. A
series of structural adjustment loans are envisaged, at the Government's
request, to support its program of structural adjustments to be implemented in
the medium-term. Agriculture, industry and energy will be the key sectors for
project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, exports, and
rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on promotion
of exports and employment, and the gradual strengthening of the SEEs. Energy
projects underway are in power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite
resources; future projects will emphasize the oil/gas sub-sector and
coal/lignite. Projects for urban development and public utilities may
supplement these efforts. The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue
established with the Government in recent years is expected to be pursued on
key issues. The economic and sector work planned over the next several months
includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
29.      A supplement to the first Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bati Raman
Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project and the Petroleum
Exploration Project, were approved by the Executive Directors in November
1980, and the Labor Intensive Industry and Second Fruit and Vegetable Projects
in March 1981. Other loans besides the proposed one, being presented for the
consideration of the Fxecutive Directors in May 1981, are for a fertilizer
rationalization and energy saving project and a second structural adjustment



- 11 -
loan. Projects being processed for consideration in the next fiscal year
include: sewerage disposal in Istanbul, rural development, seed production,
promotion of export oriented industries, and paper and cement modernization.
30.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt
(including short-term obligations) was 9 percent in 1980, and is expected to
grow to 10 percent by 1981 and 11 percent by 1985. Its share of service
payments is projected to remain at its 1980 level of 10 percent through 1985.
31.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi--TSKB). As of March 31, 1981, gross
IFC commitments totalled about 1212 million, of which $88 million were still
held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - THE STATE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, DYE AND THE BENEFICIARIES
The Industrial Sector
32.      Successive Turkish governments have emphasized a strategy of growth
through industrialization. As a result, industry's share in GDP grew from 14
percent in 1962 to about 21 percent in 1980 and the industrial growth rate was
significantly above the average for middle income developing countries. About
28 percent of gross fixed capital formation during the last 5 years was in
manufacturing and it now accounts for about 35 percent of total merchandise
exports. A substantial amount of import substitution has been achieved,
albeit at high cost, but most intermediate products are still imported to some
extent. A strong emphasis on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors, although others are
competitive and more have the potential to become so. A consequence has been
that Turkey has thus far been unable to develop a strong industrial export
base, and has instead relied mainly on its traditional agricultural exports
(supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance the imports of materials and
capital goods needed for its ambitious modernization effort.
33.      As a central part of its strategy for extricating Turkey from its
current economic crisis, the Government is now trying to reorient industrial
production toward exports, (currently only 10 percent of industrial
production), by changes in the overall policy framework encouraging lighter
industry and intermediate goods with export potential. The private sector,
with its emphasis on light industries, is expected to take the lead; however,
the public sector would be relied upon, to provide the capital and
intermediate goods such as iron and copper, and contribute to exports, where
possible. Although an array of export incentives has been introduced last
year, the decades old inward orientation of industry can only change
gradually. Shortages of foreign exchange, fuel oil and electricity, strikes
in key industries and working capital constraints, have together forced a low
industrial capacity utilization (45 percent in 1979), and a lower growth of
production and exports than expected.



- 12 -
34.       In the medium-term, the main tasks facing the sector are:  (i)
restoring existing capacity to full production; (ii) increasing production and
productivity further, through rationalization and modernization of existing
capacity; and (iii) applying more rigorous selection criteria to new
investments particularly in the public sector. Turkey is now encouraging
quick-gestating, export-oriented or energy saving investments (particularly by
the private sector) and those which rationalize or modernize key subsectors
including fertilizers, cement, and pulp/paper. In addition, a limited number
of investments in subsectors where Turkey has an international competitive
edge (e.g. engineering and chemical industries, foundries, and food products),
or where substantial employment-generation prospects exist to offset the
capital intensive nature of previous investments, or where capital intensive
projects of national importance based on domestic natural resources would
yield substantial economic benefits, will also be pursued, as resources permit.
State Economic Enterprise (SEE) System
35.      A significant feature of the economic scene is the large role of the
SEEs, which account for about 9 percent of GDP and provide 10 percent of all
nonagricultural wage employment. SEE investment amounted to almost 25 percent
of total fixed investment in 1980, and close to 50 percent of total public
sector investment. Total fixed investment in the SEE sector during 1978 was
TL 60.4 billion ($2.5 billion equivalent) and increased to TL 128.0 billion
($3.5 billion equivalent) in 1979, both in current prices. The manufacturing
sector accounted for the largest share (45 percent) followed by mining and
energy (36 percent), transport and communications (11 percent) and agriculture
(8 percent).
36.      About 45 major SEEs account for most public enterprise activity.  Of
these, 11 are in the financial sector, 7 are classical public utilities or in
public transport, 9 are specialized agencies serving agriculture and 18 are in
the industrial sector, including manufacturing, mining and trade. SEEs have a
virtual monopoly in petroleum refining, steel, alcoholic beverages and basic
metals, and large shares in fertilizers, pulp/paper, cement, coal, sugar,
machinery and chemicals.
37.      Past governments have established various social and economic policy
objectives for SEEs, which have varied in priority according to their
inclinations. These objectives have included: import substitution, income
redistribution, employment creation, and development of under-developed
regions. Many studies have been done on the impact of these policies; but
they have not been all encompassing or conclusive in their findings. Turkey's
extensive system of industrial subsidies, incentives and controls, greatly
complicates the task of evaluating the economic performance of SEEs and of
relating this performance to the large volume of public investment in SEEs.
38.      Most SEEs have shown poor financial performance, due to a combination
of factors. Prior to the January 1980 structural reforms, SEEs lacked the
authority to take pricing decisions; and they were consequently unable to meet
rapidly increasing costs due to the high rates of inflation. Many SEEs are



- 13 --
also inefficient due to frequent management changes, overstaffing, uneconomic
facilities and bottlenecks in operations. Salaries for technical and
managerial staff have been inadequate to enable retention of sufficient
qualified staff. SEEs are also subject to interference and control by various
agencies of Government, including on staffing. As a result of these factors,
SEEs have run up large operating deficits financed so far by the Treasury and
Central Bank. These increased from TL 4.4 billion ($ 0.3 billion equivalent)
in 1975 (0.9 percent of GDP) to TL 71.5 billion ($ 1.9 billion equivalent) in
1979 (3.4 percent of GDP). In 1980 losses were reduced to TL 61.0 billion ($
0.8 billion equivalent amounting to 1.5 percent of GDP). Because of the lack
of budget resources during the last two years, many new fixed investments of
SEEs have had to be held in abeyance, and some ongoing projects have been left
incomplete.
39.      Recent Policy Changes.  Potentially far-reaching changes in
government policy concerning the SEE sector were initiated as a part of the
structural adjustment package in January 1980. These have now been expanded
by a series of additional decisions of great significance, communicated to the
Bank in a letter dated February 20, 1981, in connection with the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (President's Report P-3034-TU dated April
20, 1981). The major thrust is to shift to indirect controls and greater
reliance on market forces. The Government recognizes that the employment
problem, which has in the past been mitigated through SEE overstaffing, can
only be resolved in the long run through making Turkey's industries
sufficiently efficient to be able to compete on the world markets. In line
with this new overall approach, the SEEs are now expected to primarily focus
on financial and economic objectives; steps are therefore being taken, or
planned, to increase their autonomy and efficiency. The changes already
implemented include; (i) SEEs, with very few exceptions, are now empowered to
determine prices; (ii) except for two export-oriented agricultural purchasing
SEEs, SEEs are cut off from any recourse to Central Bank borrowings, and now
have to cover operating expenses from earnings; (iii) from 1981, all budgetary
funds for loans for investment in profitable SEE's will now be channelled
through DYB, and budgetary funds for loans for investment in non-profitable
SEE's will be transferred only after scrutiny of the project by DYB and under
DYB's supervision during implementation; (iv) SEE staffing for existing
operations has been frozen at the November 1980 level, new factories are
required to draw at least 50 percent of their complement from existing staff,
and, for ten major SEEs, only 50 percent of existing vacancies are permitted
to be filled; and (v) to make SEEs more creditworthy for commercial borrowing,
their capital structure is to be strengthened by infusions of equity.
40.      In addition, a number of other measures are at various stages of
active consideration. A major reform of the structure of the SEE system,
designed to depoliticize operations, increase management effectiveness, and
reduce interference in day-to-day operations, is being prepared by a
ministerial subcommittee. In the meantime, the Government has decided in
principle: (a) to engage SEE managers on contracts, %iith more competitive
salaries; (b) to ask SEE boards to delegate responsibility and authority for
day-to-day operations to SEE managers; (c) to develop monitorable indices of
SEE performance and productivity; and (d) to review the compensation of
professional staff.



- 14 -
41.      These steps are intended to expose SEEs increasingly to market forces
and, hopefully, bring about improvements in efficiency. However, having
operated in a controlled environment for many years, one should anticipate
initial difficulties for SEEs in adjusting rapidly to the new situation.
Recognizing this, the Government has decided to move towards these objectives
in stages. The proposed project would help the managements of the industrial
SEEs involved to move faster in this direction, and aims at specifically
supporting these reforms. Besides the project specific undertakings described
in the appropriate sections of this Report, DYB will require in its subloan
agreements that the beneficiaries: (i) by September 30, 1982, review their
compensation, selection and promotion policies for technical and managerial
staff and suitably upgrade their salary structures and selection and promotion
policies in accordance with applicable laws so as to be able to hire and
retain qualified and experienced staff; (ii) by September 30, 1982, assisted
by qualified consultants acceptable to DYB, develop training programs for
their staff, for DYB review, and thereafter implement the programs; (iii) by
September 30, 1982, assisted by qualified consultants acceptable to DYB,
prepare a system of cost accounting and budgetary control, including a system
for setting standard costs and monitorable objectives for output, quality, raw
material usage and labor efficiency, for DYB review, and thereafter introduce
and maintain it; (iv) curtail the hiring of new staff for existing operations
except for engineers, technologists and financial experts, and by December 31,
1982, develop plans for rationalizing their staffing; and (v) delegate
adequate authority for day-to-day operations to their General Directors and
plant managers (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraphs l(xii) and 2(i), (ii),
(iv), and (vii)). The Government has agreed that it will develop a system of
monitoring the indices referred to in (iii) above by September 30, 1982 and
introduce it by January 1, 1983, after consultation with the Bank (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.05). It will continue to permit KBI and Karabuk the
flexibility to set prices for their products based upon costs of production
under conditions of efficient operation, investment requirements, and market
considerations (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04 (b)). (For SEKER see para.
49). The Government will also ensure that the beneficiary SEEs and DYB have
qualified and experienced staff and will approve, as necessary, sufficient
contract positions (with more competitive salaries than permitted under State
personnel law)(Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(d)). Finally, the Government
and the Bank will exchange views periodically on the progress, with respect to
DYB and the beneficiary SEEs, in carrying out the overall reforms of the SEE
system referred to in paragraphs 39 and 40 above (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.08).
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) and Previous Bank Operations
42.      DYB was established in 1964, to provide long-term credits, guarantees
and other services to SEEs. Itself an SEE reporting to the Ministry of
Finance, DYB is 100 percent government owned. It has a board of five members
including its general director, and a total staff of 184 employees. In the
early 1970s, DYB financed about one-third of the total fixed investment of
SEEs. However, in recent years the proportion has declined substantially as
DYB's resources, raised mainly through bonds sold to the social security
organization, have not kept pace with the growth of investment. At the end of



- 15 -
1980, DYB's total loan portfolio was about TL 88 billion. Long-term debt was
TL 79 billion and equity TL 8.2 billion. The surplus generated in that year
from operations was TL 1.4 billion, a return on equity of 17 percent. Loan
disbursements rose in TL, but decreased in dollar equivalents from TL 14
billion ($380 million equivalent) in 1979 to about TL 18 billion ($240 million
equivalent) in 1980. Loan arrears at the end of 1980 were TL 5 billion and
affected 19 percent of the loan portfolio. While this level of arrears is not
unacceptably high, the repayment capacity of DYB's borrowers cannot be judged
by the level of arrears as the Treasury has been regularly financing bEE
operating deficits.
43.      From its inception, DYB has occupied an ambiguous role in the Turkish
system, overshadowed in influencing SEE decisions by the more powerful
Ministry of Finance and especially the btate Planning Organization (bPO).
This has generated an essentially uncritical attitude in DYB's project
appraisal, and rather weak supervision effort. To try and improve on DYB's
performance and strengthen its role in the SEE system, the Bank has made two
loans to DYB (Ln. 1024-TU in June 1974, and Ln. 1379-TU in March 1977). These
loans were restricted to projects in manufacturing and processing industries
and non-fuel mining since these were the types of projects for which DYB was
likely to have the greatest influence. By strengthening DYB, the Bank hoped
to promote institution building in smaller industrial bEEs with whom it would
otherwise have had no relationship. While these loans enabled the Bank to
reach a number of subprojects in a broad range of industry, and supported
Turkish industrial development, the institutional objectives were largely
frustrated.
44.      The Bank's operations in the industrial sector, including the loans
to DYB, have been reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department in its
report entitled "Sector Operations Review: Industries and DFCs Program in
Turkey" (Report No. 3077 dated July 18, 1980). The report concluded that
progress towards the achievement of the objectives of the DYB loans had been
constrained by the "characteristics of the institutional situation,
environment and practices prevailing in Turkey". It noted DYB had not built
up a position of independent financier, that it was not being consulted on
choice of investments although it had the right to reject individual
proposals, and, because of legal restrictions on the interference of one SEE
in another's management, it could not exercise the rights of a financier to
ensure efficient management of the enterprises to which it lent. The report
also noted that DYB's subprojects tended to follow the Turkish pattern of
excessive capital intensity and slow implementation. A sample of five DYB
subprojects was reviewed; while the economic returns were below those
estimated by DYB initially, they ranged from 8 to 17 percent.
45.      Because of these difficulties, in 1979 the Bank informed the
Government and DYB that a third DFC line of credit to DYB could only be
considered, if steps were taken to define more explicitly the role of DYB
within the bEE system and if there was a willingness to take steps to
strengthen the institution's capabilities. Given DYB's limited staff and
financial resources, the Bank suggested DYB might profitably focus its efforts



- 16 -
on a subsection of SEEs, such as the industrial SEEs. Alternatively DYB's
staff and resources would have to be increased to match its responsibilities.
Meanwhile, the Government has initiated the broader reforms of the sEE sector
described above. A key element is a larger role for DYB through specific
actions described in para. 39, and which have been initiated from this Turkisi
fiscal year. In addition, the Government intends to allow DYB to charge the
higher market related interest rates charged by the private development banks.
46.      These encouraging steps still leave unanswered a number of issues
concerning the future role of DYB in the new market-oriented bEE system, i.e.
its sources of funds, whether it should continue to try and serve the large
public utility bEEs as well as industrial ones, and the criteria it will apply
in approving investments utilizing government funds. Moreover, since SEEs can
no longer cover operating losses from the Central Bank or budget, DYB will now
be fully exposed to lending risks. It is also evident that for DYB to
discharge its evolving role effectively, its appraisal and supervision
capabilities must be strengthened. To address these issues in the short run,
agreement has been reached that DYB will apply project appraisal criteria
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, section 3.07); understandings have
been reached on the criteria. Agreement has also been reached that by June
30, 1982, DYB would employ additional qualified and experienced staff in
numbers sufficient to carry out its increased responsibilities during calendar
year 1982 (Loan Agreement, section 3.08).  To meet longer run needs, the
Government will initiate by December 31, 1981 a study of DYB's future role
within the system of selection and financing of SEE projects, under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. By December 31, 1982 the Government will
complete the study and provide a copy to the Bank for its comments. The study
will address in particular, DYB's relationships with the Treasury and sPO, its
supervision authority over SEE borrowers, its resources and internal autonomy,
and its policy and organizational requirements and staffing required to enable
DYB to perform its intended role effectively (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.06). Understandings have been reached on the formation of an inter-agency
committee to carry out the study, the terms of reference, the phasing, and the
employment of management consultants to assist the Government and DYB, also on
the subsequent adoption of a comprehensive policy statement by DYB's Board in
light of the study.
The Beneficiary Companies and Their Subsectors
47.      Turkiye beker Fabrikalari (SEKER).  SEKER, formed in 1935, is a sEE
with 57 percent of the shares owned by the Government and the remaining shares
by several public sector agencies. It operates 13 sugar factories, with a
total beet processing capacity of 35,000 tons of beets per day (tpd). While
relatively efficient in some areas, SEKER suffers from many problems which
afflict other SEEs: inadequate management and professional compensation
incentives, overcentralization, overstaffing (staff per ton of processing
capacity is 80 percent higher than for private sector sugar operations in
Turkey) and inadequate financial management systems. In addition to sugar
production, the company operates five machine shops, which produce most of the
equipment needed for sugar factories, as well as complete cement plants.
SEKER also has interests in banking, transportation, insurance, and



- 17 -
consultancy companies. Besides bEKER, there are five private sugar factories
in Turkey, with a total capacity of about 17,000 tpd. Together, the subsector
produced nearly a million tons of sugar and about 375,000 tons of molasses in
the 1979-80 season, close to capacity.
48.      Domestic sugar consumption has increased steadily at about 7 percent
per year since the 1960s, and reached a total of 1.2 million tons in 1979,
i.e. 26 kg per capita. With increased demand, Turkey has become a net sugar
importer since 1974. Even with this increase, the per capita consumption
level is substantially below that of industrialized countries (about 50 kg per
capita), although there are prospects for continued rapid demand growth with
rising incomes over the medium-term. Demand is therefore projected to
increase to 1.4 million tons by 1985 and to 1.6 million tons by 1988. SEKER
is currently implementing the first phase of an expansion program, which is
planned ultimately to include the expansion of five existing factories and the
construction of four new factories with a total cost estimated by the company
at about TL 28 billion ($310 million). If the full program is completed as
planned in about 1988, this would increase total sugar production capacity to
about 1.6 million tons, thus closing the supply/demand gap and the current
outflow of foreign exchange on sugar imports. However, execution of this
program has been delayed by the lack of foreign exchange for critical imported
machinery, as well as by shortage of domestic funds, and only four projects
are actually underway. The proposed project includes funds to complete two of
the expansion factories and one of the new factories.
49.      The ex-factory price of sugar and sugar byproducts is one of the few
remaining SEE prices still controlled by Government. The current price to
consumers for crystal sugar, $0.29 per pound, is lower than the prevailing
high world price, but higher than the long-term projected prices. Under the
Sugar Law, the companies are guaranteed an annual net profit after tax,
equivalent to a 10 percent return on paid-in capital. The funds to cover the
differences between the prices implied by this formula and the actual
ex-factory price are provided by a bugar Fund in the Central Bank, which in
recent years has been under-financed. Moreover, the formula provides little
incentive to efficient production. The Government has agreed that as long as
sugar prices are regulated, it would take all required actions to enable sugar
factories to charge ex-factory prices at levels sufficient to cover the costs
of production under efficient operations at reasonable levels of capacity
utilization and to retain profits sufficient to earn a return on equity that
reflects market conditions (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04 (a)).
50.      Under the present arrangements, SEKER earned a net income after taxes
of TL 123 million in 1979 (of which TL 104 million was from sugar products) on
sales of TL 17 billion. This included TL 5.7 billion due from the sugar
Fund. The current ratio was satisfactory at 1:1, but the debt equity ratio
was unsatisfactory at 10:1. However, in 1980, SEKER's paid-in capital was
increased from TL 2.0 to TL 5.5 billion, which reduced the debt equity ratio
to about 8:1. (For further action, see para. 72). SEKER is expected to
generate sufficient funds at current price levels to finance the expansion
program, including the project.



- 18 -
51.      Karabuk Iron and bteel (Karabuk).  The Karabuk Iron and steel
Company, established in 1939, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Turkish Iron
and Steel Corporation, another Government owned SEE. Karabuk is managed by a
4-man board, including the general director of the plant, who is also the
chairman.  Karabuk employs about 10,000 permanent workers, to operate an
integrated iron and steel plant with a capacity of 600,000 tons per year (tpy)
of raw steel.  Karabuk has historically operated at nearly full capacity,
unusual in Turkey, and has been profitable in most years.  In 1980, its return
on sales was 3 percent and that on equity 28 percent.  The plant is
substantially depreciated and the company has no long-term debt.  Its current
ratio of 1.1:1 is acceptable and its financial position is satisfactory.  The
plant is overstaffed by international, and even Turkish, standards. Karabuk
has faced all the general problems facing the SEE sector enumerated above. It
produces pig iron for sale to the foundry sector in Turkey, as well as
finished roll bar largely for the construction industry.
52.       The foundry industry has made substantial progress in the past 15
years as a supplier of industrial inputs to engineering enterprises catering
mainly to the domestic market. However, this industry has a potential for
entering the export markets in a more substantial way, because of a
comparative advantage in terms of labor and transport costs. Capacity in 1980
had reached 680,000 tons of castings per year in over 700 plants, employing
about 12,000 workers. Because of the general economic downturn, both
production and capacity utilization have dropped in recent years to 295,000
tons and 40 percent respectively during 1980. Due to a decline of demand in
the engineering industry, resulting from the general economic situation as
well as shortages of major inputs like pig iron, demand for foundry castings
is expected to recover only slowly in pace with the economy and is projected
to reach about 500,000 tons by 1988. The corresponding demand for pig iron is
projected to rise from 313,000 tpy in 1980 to 546,000 tpy in 1988.
53.      Demand for pig iron is met by marketing a part of the iron output of
the three integrated iron and steel plants in Turkey: Karabuk with capacity
of 0.6 million tpy; Erdemir with a capacity of 1.5 million tpy; and Isdemir
with capacity of 1.1 million tpy, supplemented by imports. While pig iron
output might be expanded at Erdemir and Isdemir, these are designed as
integrated plants and are likely to require all their pig iron output for
steelmaking. The expansion at Erdemir is being financed by the Bank (Ln.
1606-TU). Because of bottlenecks in the steelmaking plants, currently being
studied, Erdemir could, for a short period, supply some iron to the market,
although this would require increased imports of raw materials. Isdemir is
having capacity utilization problems and is also dependent on imported raw
materials for production. Karabuk, being based on domestic raw materials and
with a substantially depreciated plant, therefore appears to have the best
opportunity for quickly increasing iron production at a reasonable cost.
54.      The major bottleneck to increasing iron production at Karabuk is the
absence of modern raw material preparation facilities for the blast furnaces.
In addition, substantial cost and energy savings can be realized by increasing



- 19 -
the blast furnace temperatures from about 750 degrees centigrade to the
present international standard of about 1200 degrees centigrade, which reduces
the coke requirement substantially. The proposed project addresses these
problems.
55.      Karadeniz Copper Company (KBI).  KBI was established in 1968 under
commercial law, as a joint stock company with 99 percent of its shares
controlled by the Treasury and the minerals bEE Etibank. While private
commercial status has given KBI some flexibility as compared with other SEEs,
it has also suffered from frequent changes in management and interference in
day-to-day operations which have prevented it from attaining its full capacity
and operating efficiency. KBI operates a fully integrated (mining,
concentration, smelting) blister copper facility, with a design capacity of
40,000 tpy of blister copper. However, insufficient maintenance of facilities
and bottlenecks have resulted in a high frequency of shutdowns in the mining
and concentration stages and a gross underutilization of capacity. Production
of blister copper has been hovering around 13,000 tpy, or about one-third of
rated capacity.
56.      Etibank operates the only other blister copper facilities in Turkey
with a capacity of about 20,000 tpy. Total production from both companies was
16,000 tpy in 1980, below even the substantially reduced demands of that year
of 23,000 tons. Demand projections, based upon conservative assumptions
concerning recovery of economic activity and GNP growth, indicate that demand
for blister copper would attain the 1976 level of 40,000 tons by 1983 and
increase thereafter at a modest 9 percent per year as the industrial sector
recovers, reaching about 72,000 tons by 1990. Rationalization and
rehabilitation of KBI's facilities will enable it to produce about 33,700 tons
per year to meet part of this increase in demand. Besides the increased
production of copper, rationalization of the facilities would permit
increasing the production of pyrite concentrate from 15,000 tpy to 133,000
tpy, as well as of sulphuric acid from 60,000 tpy to 240,000 tpy. The latter
two products would, in turn, facilitate the debottlenecking of the neighboring
samsun Fertilizer Plant of Azot Sanayii which is proposed to be rationalized
under the Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy saving Project, already
submitted for consideration by the Executive Directors in May. Proven copper
ore reserves within economic distance would ensure ore supply for 12 years
after project completion. Geological surveys confirm the existence of
substantial additional commercially exploitable copper deposits near the
existing mine. The Government has agreed to cause its Mining Investment and
Exploration Institute to develop a five year exploration program commencing in
1982 in the area (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07).
57.      Until 1978, KBI experienced losses because of the decline in world
copper prices. However, with the rise in world prices in 1979, the company's
financial performance improved and, despite the persistance of operating
problems, it showed a profit of about TL 300 million in 1979 on sales of TL
2.5 billion. In 1980, profits increased further to TL 1.3 billion on sales of
TL 4.5 billion. Its current ratio in 1980 was 2.2:1 and its debt equity ratio
about 1:19, both of which are satisfactory.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.      Project History.  The project originated from a request by the
Government in late 1979, for Bank assistance in completing a selected number
of small high priority SEE projects which had been stalled essentially by the
lack of foreign exchange. In view of the general problems of DYB's role noted
in paras. 43 to 45 above, it was decided that the Bank would work closely with
DYB in selecting and appraising a package of such subprojects. In connection
with an Industrial Identification Mission which visited Turkey in June 1980,
the Government and DYB proposed 24 medium size projects for consideration.
Because of the economic difficulties facing Turkey and the severe shortage of
foreign exchange, it was agreed that the criteria for subproject selection
would include: the extent of project completion, the possibility of expansion
to optimal scale of production, conservation of energy, short gestation
period, suitability for the public sector, availability of local currency,
subsectoral priorities, and high economic return. Based on these criteria and
the then available information, 11 subprojects were tentatively identified for
possible financing. Project preparation was carried out by the sponsoring
companies working with DYB.
59.      The project was appraised in November 1980.  On the basis of more
detailed and updated information gathered by DYB, the appraisal mission,
working with DYB and Turkish consultants, evaluated the subprojects in depth
and finally selected six for inclusion in the proposed loan. To help
strengthen DYB's capacity for such tasks, since a strengthened DYB is also a
major objective desired by the Government, Bank staff reviewed the draft
appraisal reports prepared by DYB for each subproject and indicated to DYB the
aspects of the reports which needed strengthening. Submission by DYB of a
final appraisal report acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of Bank
approval, which will be required for each subloan (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02(a) and 2.03(a)). Negotiations were held in Washington between April 8
and 15, 1981 with a delegation headed by Mr. Tevfik Altinok, Chief Financial
Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and representatives of the Treasury and DYB.
60.      Project Objectives and Scope.  The project has three interrelated
objectives: (a) completing six high priority rationalization and
modernization industrial projects, which have been delayed for 2 or 3 years
because of the lack of foreign exchange; (b) in the process, supporting and
enhancing government initiatives to improve the operation and productivity of
the bEE sector, through specific improvements in the beneficiary aEEs; and (c)
further strengthening and broadening DYB's capacity to service the SEE sector.
61.      The project includes:  (a) three subprojects to expand sugar
production by 169,000 tpy to be carried out by the Turkish Sugar Corporation
(SEKER) involving the expansion of the Ankara sugar factory from 1,500 tons of
beets per day (tpd) to 3,000 tpd, the expansion of the Susurbuk sugar factory
from 3,000 tpd to 6,000 tpd, and the establishment of a new factory at Ilgin
with a capacity of 6,000 tpd; (b) two subprojects designed to rationalize and



- 21 -
improve pig iron produced at the Karabuk Steel Mill of Karabuk Demir ve Celik
Fabrikalari (Karabuk) by the improvement of raw material preparation and
handling facilities and the replacement of refractories in the blast furnace
stoves along with the replacement of burners and blast pipes to enable blast
temperatures to be increased, thereby increasing production from 600,000 tpy
to 900,000 tpy; and (c) one subproject to rationalize copper production at the
Black Sea Copper Works of the Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri (KBI) to increase
production of blister copper from 13,000 tpy to 33,700 tpy, sulphuric acid
from 60,000 tpy to 240,000 tpy, and pyrite concentrate from 15,000 tpy to
133,000 tpy. In addition, about 300 manmonths of technical assistance will be
provided to the three companies at an average cost of about $13,700 per
man-month, to assist in project implementation, improving plant operation and
maintenance, developing appropriate budgetary control and cost accounting
systems and incentive systems for workers and, in the case of the Sugar
Corporation, improving its agricultural extension services. In addition, the
Government will undertake a basic study of the role of DYB in the financing of
the SEE sector to help address issues such as sources of funds, relations with
the Treasury and SPO, authority to supervise and staffing requirements. The
details of the subprojects are provided in Annex IV, and the project as a
whole is summarized in the Loan and Project bummary. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 3390-TU dated April 20, 1981), is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors.
62.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the proposed project,
(including an average 16 percent price and 7.5 percent physical contingency on
base costs) 1/ is estimated at about $237 million; of this about $157 million
is for the sugar subprojects, about $49 million for the iron subprojects, and
about $31 million is for the copper subproject. The above estimates include
about $3.0 million in foreign exchange cost and $1.1 million equivalent in
local cost for technical assistance and about $1.9 million for local taxes.
International escalation rates have been used for local costs expressed in
dollar equivalents, on the assumption that the difference between local and
international inflation will result in offsetting exchange rate adjustments.
The estimated foreign exchange cost is $80.5 million. However, if interest
during construction and working capital needs are included, the total
financing requirements would be about $300 million and the foreign exchange
requirements about $91 million. Because some of the subprojects are already
underway, SEKER and Karabuk have already expended approximately $75 million
equivalent in total including $10.5 million in foreign exchange, which amounts
are reflected in the above totals. The proposed Bank loan of i70 million will
finance 100 percent of the project foreign costs net of charges during
construction, working capital and funds already spent, 77 percent of the total
1/ Price contingencies in dollar terms are projected at 9.5 percent in 1981,
8.5 percent in 1982, and 7.5 percent in 1983; physical contigencies are
provided at various rates for each project, depending upon extent of
completion.



- 22 -
foreign requirements and 23 percent of the total financing requirements net of
taxes. The remaining foreign exchange requirements (including interest during
construction), i.e. $21 million less about $10.5 million already spent by the
companies, will be met as follows; about $i2.4 million from DYB, $1.2 million
from already contracted suppliers' credits, and about $7.0 million from
internal funds of the beneficiaries.
63.      The approximately $209 million equivalent required for local costs,
financial charges and working capital is expected to be financed as follows;
DYB will provide TL loans (Loan Agreement, bection 3.06) for about $61 million
equivalent. Of the remainder, about $112 million equivalent will be provided
by SEKER; about $16 million equivalent will be provided by Karabuk; about $7
million equivalent will be provided by KbI; and about $13 million from
suppliers' credits and commercial banks. DYB will include undertakings in its
subloan agreements, that the beneficiaries will conduct their affairs so as to
generate the required funds for the project components, limit distribution of
dividends to the extent required to meet fund requirements and not undertake
other nonproject investments above $5 million in any year before subproject
completion without DYB's prior approval (Loan Agreement, schedule 3, paragraph
1 (ii), (x) and (xi)).
64.      Lending and Onlending Terms.  The Bank loan will be to DYB, with an
amortization schedule based upon the aggregate amortization schedule for the
individual subloans. DYB will onlend Bank funds to the beneficiaries for up
to 15 years, including an appropriate period of grace not to exceed 5 years
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.08(b). The beneficiaries will bear the foreign
exchange risk (Loan Agreement, Section 4.09). At present, DYB's lending rate
for both foreign and local currency loans is 21.5 percent. This rate is fixed
by the Government and bears no relationship to the cost of resources,
prevailing interest rates for comparable borrowed funds elsewhere in the
country or the long-term inflation rate. Inflation was 50 percent in 1978, 65
percent in 1979, and 105 percent in 1980. Because of uncertainties associated
with changes in economic structure expected in response to government policy
initiatives, it is difficult to forecast the rate of inflation. It is,
however, tentatively projected to decline to 60 percent in 1981, 40 percent in
1982, and 30 percent in 1983, if government policies are effectively
implemented. Interest rates for domestic lending institutions for similar
types of local currency lending have been freed from government control, and
are currently around 50 percent per annum (including taxes), although still
behind the rate of inflation. On the other hand, the rate of 21.5 percent is
too high in comparison with the rates for foreign exchange loans prevailing in
the private sector and international markets.
65.      The Government has indicated its intention to permit DYB to adopt
market related interest rates during 1981, as has already been done by private
development banks. In particular, it was agreed that for this project, the
onlending rate for foreign currency subloans will be equal to the cost of Bank
funds plus a spread of 3.5 percent for DYB and applicable taxes, while the
interest rate on DYB's local currency loans will be in line with lending rates
prevailing in the market, after taking account of applicable interest rebates
(Loan Agreement, section 4.09).



- 23 -
66.      DYB and Project Execution.  While the subprojects have been appraised
in some detail by both DYB and Bank staff, DYB's appraisal documents still
require some additional detailed analyses before DYB enters into these
subloans. For example, the appraisal documents should include more
information on the overall capability of bEKER to carry out its other
investments as well as the project investment, the firming up of arrangements
for technical assistance, etc. Therefore, it is a condition of subloan
approval, which is in turn a condition of disbursement for each subloan, that
the Bank receives copies of DYB's final appraisal reports and onlending
agreements satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03 (a)).
Applications are to be presented to the Bank by beptember 30, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.03(b). In the unlikely event that DYB could not reach
acceptable agreements with the expected beneficiaries, DYB could present
alternative projects from its current pipeline for Bank consideration. To
ensure that the beneficiary bEEs efficiently carry out their respective
projects and to help DYB assume a broader and more responsible role for
project execution, agreement has been reached on a set of covenants to be
included in the Subloan Agreements (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3). These
covenants would include inter alia general matters on staff training and
establishing of the monitorable indices referred to in para. 41. In addition,
provisions would be included for; (i) hiring consultants to assist in
designing incentive systems by December 31, 1982, and implementation of such
systems after comments by DYB; (ii) submission by september 30, 1981, for
review by DYB, of the staffing plan of departments responsible for
construction/commissioning of the projects, detailed implementation plans, and
appropriate cost control and time management systems, and thereafter
submission of quarterly progress reports to DYB; (iii) hiring consultants
acceptable to DYB to help prepare and submit to DYB by September 30, 1982
action programs for improving production control, safety and preventive
maintenance, and implement them after consultation with DYB; and (iv)
operation of plants in accordance with applicable Government environmental
regulations (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph 2(iii), (v), (vi), (viii)
and (ix)).
67.      Subproject execution (construction, commissioning and staff
training), will be the primary responsibility of the beneficiary SEEs under
the supervision of DYB. DYB's subloan agreements will require beneficiaries
to hire engineering consultants acceptable to DYB, as deemed necessary by DYB,
to assist them in subproject execution including training sub-borrower staff
to operate the new facilities and equipment; SEKER will hire consultants
acceptable to DYB to assist it in strengthening its extension staff (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraphs 2(xi) and 3). To improve the quality of DYB
supervision work in general, and to ensure subproject execution moves
smoothly, the Bank will participate in project supervision with DYB from time
to time, both by reviewing DYB's supervision reports and by making occasional
field visits.
68.      bupervision.  DYB will engage specialized technical consultants to
assist its staff in supervision as necessary in accordance with a supervision
program which has been agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement, section



- 24 -
3.02(b)). DYB staff, assisted by consultants, will supervise the project
during implementation and during the life of the loan. They will be required
to review each project on a quarterly basis (the understanding being that this
will involve a field visit) and prepare a comprehensive supervision report
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (b)).
69.      Training.  DYB has a good reputation for staff training, through both
formal programs and on-the-job instruction. Furthermore DYB makes a unique
contribution to the public sector by conducting seminars every year on project
appraisal techniques. The seminar accepts up to 60 trainees from various
SEEs, including DYB staff; the lecturers include experts from government
ministries, SPO, the High Control Board, Turkish and foreign universities as
well as specialists from the OECD. Since 1967, several hundred employees of
SEEs have attended the seminars. In support of the efforts to improve cost
accounting within the SEEs, DYB is planning to provide seminars in this
area.   Consultants provided by OECD are assisting DYB in developing such
programs.
70.      Procurement and Disbursements.  DYB will include in its subloan
agreements a provision requiring the use of procurement procedures agreed with
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Paragraph l(iii) and schedule 4).
Machinery and equipment totalling about $24 million will be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Local
manufacturers of equipment will be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent
or the actual customs duty, which ever is lower. Compatibility with existing
equipment and spare parts may dictate that certain items be purchased on a
proprietary basis. However, the Bank will review all cases of proprietary
procurement before bidding. Since DYB is not fully familiar with Bank
procedures for procurement, Bank staff will review the bidding documents,
evaluation, bids, and contracts for all bid packages exceeding $1 million
(Loan Agreement, 6chedule 4, Part D). Bid packages costing $l million
equivalent or less will be procured using current SEE procedures, involving
limited international tendering on the basis of at least three quotations from
suppliers in member countries of the Bank, bwitzerland and Taiwan, which
procedures are acceptable (Loan Agreement, bchedule 4, Part C). DYB staff
would supervise procurement below $1 million. The Bank loan will be disbursed
against 100 percent of the foreign expenditure for imported equipment and
spare parts and foreign consultants as well as 100 percent of the ex-factory
costs of contracts won by local suppliers under international competitive
bidding and 75 percent of the costs of local consultants (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(a)).
71.      Financial and Economic Analysis.  DYB's future level of operations
cannot be accurately determined, as the SEEs' annual investment and financial
programs are decided late in the autumn of each year. As a result,
projections have to be based on extrapolations from past experience. It is
further complicated by the new decision to use DYB for all loans from the
budget for investments in profitable SEEs, which could expand the level of
DYB's operations two or threefold. DYB's profitability is equally difficult
to project in light of the probable change in its interest rates and the



- 25 -
uncertainty as to the cost of its future financing. To maintain the soundness
of DYB's financial position, DYB and the Government have agreed to take all
necessary action to maintain DYB's debt service coverage ratio at least at
1.3;1 (Loan Agreement, bection 4.04 and Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(c)),
and the Government has agreed to maintain DYB's capital at an appropriate
level (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
72.      Financial and economic returns have been calculated for the six
subprojects and are shown in the table below.
Financial                  Economic Rate
Rate of Return               of Return
Before Tax (%)
SEKER
Ankara                            18                         24
Susurluk                          12                         19
Ilgin                             23                         26
Karabuk
Raw Material                      21                         34
Blast Furnace                     54                         59
KBI                                  over 100                    over 100
Weighted Average                       32                          31
Unit costs are projected to decline sharply in project plants, as a result of
the project completion financed by the Bank loan, with a major improvement of
profitability and cash flow (see Annex IV for details). DYB will include in
its subloan agreements a requirement that beneficiaries achieve by December
31, 1982 and thereafter maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1;1
and a debt equity ratio of at least 60:40 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3,
paragraph 2 (x)). If the funds available to any of the sub-borrowers should
be inadequate to meet estimated expenditures for carrying out the project and
if DYB should be unable to provide additional funds or if the debt equity
ratio requirement should prevent a beneficiary from borrowing sufficient funds
as required to complete the project, the Government would provide or cause to
be provided additional funds on suitable terms as needed (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b)).
Benefits and Risks
73.      The six subprojects to be financed under this project will bring
substantial benefits to the Turkish economy. By project completion, an
estimated additional 169,000 tpy of sugar, 300,000 tpy of iron, 20,700 tpy of



- 26 -
copper, 180,000 tpy of sulphuric acid and 118,000 tpy of pyrite concentrate
are expected to be produced from the subproject facilities at lower unit
costs. This would result in an estimated net foreign exchange saving of $240
million per year. In addition the increased pyrite concentrate and sulphuric
acid production at Samsun will support increased fertilizer production at the
neighboring Azot Sanayii plant proposed for rehabilitation in the Fertilizer
Rationalization and Energy Saving Project already submitted for consideration
by the Executive Directors this month. The overall economic return is about
31 percent with economic rates of return on the selected subprojects estimated
to range between 20 percent for sugar projects to over 100 percent for the
copper project. Technical risks are considered reasonable as the project is
dealing with existing plants and commercially proven technology. The major
risks are delays in subproject implementation and increased costs which have
been mitigated by providing where necessary specialized technical expertise.
74.      The project would also provide specific support to the beneficiary
SEEs to assist them in implementing more rapidly the Government's program of
institutional reforms of the 6EE sector. This support will include financing
of consultants to assist the beneficiary SEEs in improving cost accounting and
budgetary control, developing a system of monitorable indices of performance,
and developing staff training and workers incentive programs. Other
undertakings of the Government and the SEEs (see Paragraph 41) will also
further the progress of the beneficiary SEEs in implementing the reform
program.
75.      The strengthening of DYB's capability adequately to select and
finance viable projects in the state sector is also an important objective of
the project. DYB's active participation in the appraisal process and the
assignment of responsibility to it for closely monitoring the implementation
of the proposed subprojects not only strengthens the Bank's institution
building effort, but also introduces new principles in the DYB - SEE
relationship. The agreed strengthening of DYB staff will extend this impact
beyond the project beneficiary SEEs to the sector. The study of DYB's role in
the SEE system will help the Government in evolving a viable financial
structure for the new market oriented SEE system. However, in view of the
difficulties encountered in the institution building efforts under the first
two DYB projects, it must be recognized that DYB's growth into a fully
autonomous and effective DFC can only be an evolutionary process.
Nevertheless, the effort is worth making and the Government's recent policy
announcements are encouraging.
PART V - LEGAL INbTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and DYB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
special features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 27 -
77.      There are no special conditions of loan effectiveness.  Disbursement
for each subloan would be conditional on Bank approval of the subloan based
upon DYB's completing an appraisal report and entering into a subloan
agreement both acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.02(a) and
2.03(a)).
78.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 4, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 28 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 or 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                              REFEPENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTFL AVFORAGES
,-AND AREA ITHOUSAND sQ. KM.)                                                            -  MOST RECE!IT ES7IITE)- '
TJTAL             780.6                                  MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCONE             INI)STRIAT.'ZFDI
kGRIC"LTURAL     553.S               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTlhATE /b                EUROPE                 CCLNTFI  
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   300.0       550.0    1330.0                   2749.5                     9499.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILCGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      245.0        479.0      798.0                  1641.4                     702 . 1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      27.5         35. 3     44.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7          38.4      45.6                     53.9                       76. 0
POPULATIGN PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         65.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          100.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATIOr DENSISTY
PER SQ. RM.                        35.0         45.0       55.0                    77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. Di. AGRICULTURAL LAND      51.0         64.0       78.0                   129.5                     523. 3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.3         41. 7      39. 1                   30.6                      23. 5
15-64 YRS.                          55.2         54.0      56.4                     61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5          4.3        4.5                     8. 2                     11.4
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.5        2.5                     1.6                       0. 7
URBAN                               S. 1/e       5. 1       4.8                     3.3                       1. 3
CRUDE BIRTHi RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.0         38.0      32.0                     22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       17.0        12.0       10. 0                    8.9                       9. 1
ROSS RZEPRODUCTION RATE               2.9          2.6        2.1                     1.5                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        63.6       66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5. 3          8.2       38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        100.0     110.0                    113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        110.0     115.0                    125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0         80.0      82.0                     91.0                      98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0         26.0      24.0                     39.6                      62. 1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HORTALITY RATE      24.0         16.0       10.0                     4. 3                      0.8
HKE.LTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0          57.0       61.0                    67.8                      73.5
INFANT KORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           187. O0c     153.O/d   118.0                     55.9                      13. 2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         52.0       75.0
URBAN                                ..         51.0      70.0
RURAL                                ..         53.0      80. 0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..       19.5
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0/e    2230.0    1772.0                    1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1880.0    1403.0                    929.4                     218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590. OLe     490. 0    506.0                    289. 7                    121.2
URBAN                             190. 0/      200.0
RLLRAL                               ..       5890.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         20.0       20.0                    17.0                      17.0
HOUSIN1
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5. 7        5.9
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER  OOM
.OTAL                                            2. 2
GIRBArJ                             2.0          1.9
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS 20 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of G,WELLINGS)
TOTAL                              29.0         40. 0      5 7. 0
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                2.0        18.0



- 29 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  2  of  5
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATEMA
}0DST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  2    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY;     TOTAL                75.0       109.0      98.0                   105.9                    100.1
MALE                 90.0       124.0      106.0                  109.3                    102.2
FEMALE               58.0        94. 0     90.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                14.0        28.0      43.0                    64.0                     87. 1
MALE                 20.0        39.0      59.0                    71.1                     84.4
FEHALE                8.0        16.0      27.0                    56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  18.0        14.0       15.0                   28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.0        38.0      34.0                    29.4                     21.7
SECONDARY                         19.0        28.0      27.0                    26.1                     16.:
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       38.0        55. 5jf    60.0                      *959
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.0      11.5                    84.6                    339.'
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        49.0        89.0     103.0                   192.2                    932.9
TV RBCEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.8      43.0                   118.5                    15' '
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0          ..        '                     93.0                    327.
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1. 1        6.7        ..                     5. 7                     3. 3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1     15829.6   18858.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2        37.2      36.0                    30.4                     36.:
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             78.5        67.7      60.0                    37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5        12.1      14.0                    29.3                     3B.
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50. 1       44.3      42.8                    40.9
KALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2                    55.9                     'o.
FE14ALE                             41.2        33.4      32.1                    26.2                     31. 1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.0                     1.0                      O.8
INCOhE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCGME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33. 0_g     32. 8h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.0A       60.6h       .
LOwEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4. 2/R      2. 9h      .
LowEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10. 6/R      9. 4_      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     342.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     270.0
ESTILATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..     220. 0                  385."8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RUKAL                               ..          ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1955-60; /d 1967; Le 1962; /f Six yeara and over; /R 1963, h 1968.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April. 1980.
October. 1980



- 30 -                                                            ME
Page 3 of 5
DEFINTPIONS OF SOCIAL IDIlCuThtS
Yote-. Although the d-n  ace n-e  iro f        o- re- gene-         dgdtenoeaeortto   anddccliabl,  ft.sould  lan b  not,ed that they maynt be. ine-
nationally  -nepaab-e h-a-e nf the la-k ofoadref   dfrtonadnneinne   ydiferetnntrinItnlert                                                  the dta. Thede:        ee   ae
the ie-,  -fc ml  Zn deer- te orders of eageltude   indi-ae treedt, and r-rae         -te   eca n-ni- d                   bCeeno   e t.en... t
The  e oen   geoyc  tee (1)  h  ne  natr   rythe              heeh7r   retoo               :   ou  i      C               htbenwa Ibhgheenversge  eneeaetesttc-   rm
oitesbrnconr   enp  fr'aia   neieIlhprtr"onycet   fdl   onetrhOrn  adMdl   et'C  hneb-                                     ns   fsene
sotohe crl  f  otis            o  h   efeen   gopdaateanrt,  e   oalttn  eore    rnmet   easfreahediae  adcas.el  cbaa
lenthlfo  teootrtainagrathn  aa  o  te   m    otr   hn   te  oreg  o                       oteenengte  nentosdeedee  teeviableye
foe rerpe,1h  c -i             I patrs.tre  and,  kinteegaf-o orho t i ~fa-o-    197e data   .ale .and Efenal   geduetuee   pdactine  meet, aniaisstnse
dlll   -11-    ,, 'i .  ... ". .x..                       f  -i.di~~~~....ltionee__spte  Bd     etl. aelte sadl mea -w Vepse..etlem -cea
med Oteobo, ptrolean  tame teec nodnyden-            ...ee  and, ec 1ooa -,etlan       neereePeraetl   tffdb  apacit.(bnlp  d deie                                     tt
fOCCLAI-t011 VIALp- A--    Tik                                                                 tic  ncldedHO.peecisi  enesl-nd-pelaited  as1inac,   d  cna
Totl  orlalo. Md-ea  (ilinal    A  o  Jly1;196,  97,  od197     hsptas  otl o  malbd            piIl and medic mal ad          pel.ty centr.t
data,                                                            Adaisetors ear~~~~~~~~~~.. HosPital Red - Toa   tbe  famaieat   rdioaee
-1macgnboactr.teay90  1970, nehd  1979 1dnea         MI,    (97-9              90          unernenlo  of prnebll .d plesrec g-c       _ecbeeala i.11-etl, n"Is. amdsel
Population P197edtino                                                                         0 honb soldt    onnatet    agropitl of indtebdals elan  paere tllm   qetee
rocinnor  n nne  000- Ceeet pynneio polerioe ae heedOt  980          bt  eb-    na.to.. tra.iin..Ahsde E  ne b odhnt  maydier sa  et las iniad   is
totalg p-opalt-lot b  age an  ... a.do,dtheir          . notlit  and fe_till peaces," the hosehodffo   ebysccl  npce. pyii (                             y."il"itt
ProjeiteloId  pail. etere f r - ota1  t    peat  ..ap,. tee of three  -enel1n9e8          Ate      tohe       -f cer hon  h  ffc met - totet.nb. sad.ti-  Aeeras-ma-
nd  fetiiy      Irnds for  ,l ry iieti,I,,corpoass,                                        of ctpi, meat  anidd baya dtheellingesspfcib       s
diff-nanocaaio-cactlne   popnlaeioethere_....  t'ia no gowt  mitts                            N
In the yea  2001  nt  the0 ear C-   f decitne1 of feeiiityntcneplan-                         ycnrn..   buti edinste   foed-ee-et 'islao  prmay  bdacacc              dd fa
alee hns lane fe-l    ifrsacb-sd,.g                    7.  y..            T.p..                                          ..l.. 
PEpnlat.lee      I    he   ..g.d..      t isneict                                            enotalry tsrhc     ty - tota..  mal ad talc  -. C~t.t      emdwn;alnsd
dduaelereniras  -itha  fe.te  eiee J. lppeave q eitery  paterstfte
Peend  ha.iy,-1   I.i-erpo,ain    rd-aebleee    ilhcecmIo                                      roie    eeal  oaini, e  cetbe  tra.inIg-l               esscaa  e  pn
only                                                                                      Velotn-    .t-    etd   h.At deinhne 't..l1 enclien  feree   ef esciaee  - t. Vctienl, -.tiatd f
Poenintoc Ae htentnre  cecoecl - ThilrnI-   rear I,  week. lo-g .    15--icr ..d tefnheic gi,  leatei th                 e e~Lty 1 1r pregr  t slica  pasf  indpa-t
61yani_tn   sehe   (65 yets aed over) d c.. 1erewtigce of nidyn ppelati-                     erpn   adpatse    feendr   nceca
lain   fO,17, id199dt,foa-ece eace"                                                                      - pprlmary, tnd ecoday  - fetal s!cadtne  mmeis  le11
P Inlthce y-rowth      Rate .eer tc  - ftee    I- ana gf e m-i icy eo tota  nCPd-_y pemryad sodeyleestgedd  byIf                    L'h ntbe  nfi daetesis; tf-
load  Cithfte  pso  -tonnd le   Anneald tin Th.lyrhnee tbonin- ofp mid-year-ppi...b1-                                                 t.fii.    .-            
ponltton   1960b .  1970,h ncd                                                                          ....7..data.  cosido-ieriiot..::
led  Dahtaclertcaodl-Annldetepe   homn  o   Cdye                     Paete   ar  pe  hose  prinie  -Psene  te   emeatna
Ppoplattnn;D ..60  1970, and 1976- data.pp=                                                                                                                 pt-t   i    -t
P.,  q. k..  Ni-y..t   pet  q.t. kil.-I -   100 h--.)nfrt men. rig less thaedt e.giec pesea t-h-de tt niiteeas,t laties   ad 
Crsetecodceo                                                                                    ...Aenetnero   agtraonnwl   eri   llleaynehin2et.  1    .t    
I:titi-yrnte6; tnua7Oy  ftn-er-cee   ndngI   90d90   r   97                                 broad tonara enyth   general puhto per rhdnsad of pepTnetec1 tdelat e -1at-i
ne,  hiethocer_  dsnlPo-et            t- under..apince-o natona  faily tarIn    id-re         patityfet .det  for.t  recen  dycadma  net .be comenea            .. sinc  mes
famlyPiani..-.sfea 1950o60t of nacre-d woncef .                                               - enrae  rere  oounriaahtEInhd-incni
women tof o    tlid-bca ... ageIl-i pene)ch  aCe'-    hitc.h -noete -b d pnine   tO ~  ltfo intr-(pe  -hoean (pnpnstCen)- Lit tt. .t rec bvew    for becdras        itcc
POOP N...OOfIIO 1950epape1960c0onintion7leer thone1ed.   p.p.lnian.n  -. fiace  nb-  ensnd   clenl
C-den of- food P    pedutoth.... dacicA~ .   Id96-71-llh.  loentc  per.-  dait  anul           tnioddiygeec   nsey    etppe".sie e.                              aecdclpe
1960ona      19veesge p dd 19ee prr tewig dt;  h9h1-f th1970,.ad  ff79h.data.t and...ohlle naits.d
Pernait  enrro   aois(eor f d-noretste .                         lemlte  ironI
RepedysqnIoler-   of -e  fon ..p. eaaalbi   nontnprnaia                              LBO  Ol
pe _dy   Analniyesnp:lies n1nrie dneh    i        P..dur..n. ..p.r . lena             TocliLht f'nY       Ihenrc h-':     con C Ailylativ    eess,ild
eeili nc  nef..   ob..ge  Iny f tok.  Net seplidC ccola"     tia   ed,ses                  nrtdicdfre  and uhc.p..yd hutpcnlnding  eaes                i -em, sadmen   ate
qanetle is aced -Infood pr9n0nicg,7an  loaatodaelaic    R1qni7                     hbt-dit....  it: oar. teen  uhties are toe..   copsrl 1969  190 ia
Iiep andtheatfoeieig   nbonetlt                    ipreae   oy   wehehtn  ens"            Feae-     enne   9-   ai  inh_oc faces   pecntg  at natal   befts
ho,Y11nsehed     L levl;  96-61.170  sod 197 lda.                                            flh_g  s  ecetae  f  od.ahe.ore ....1ffa   1Hdaa
ret. suplyd of food pega.   te e sapp.  of foo bi  defeea   ehoe.  Re-                     end Re-int-inp,   ete... ad  gases pti    neac.V  e-itnta f-sw  tai-t; 19W
p. neprten  oti which -11  gras                                                            ..adh.aia.roen..assad  eeverasae  te    sena,ml,  a   el   isah..I    fece  m
Pe Fele.rce.d     cinfo  aie  ndF-ae-Pori   up-    ffodd-                                eg-i    Statreohh-pplcin   nthsgniana.  - e   ai
rined frmanaandp tess inatees  er day  1961-hf,190ad97  dntc                                 diconoc,i   il le deo    -aIo    RatIoo  ppledte 15 ad  65aIes
teteo  dar  dartoedfine lie  talalee1 1969,  970 ned  977 data   "PIIOcb,thenT...ledpOMyt     ddti   .                                     ti        i-
I Pt~~~~~~~~~~Pcnnneo  rnr eoa(oht  ah dbn)-tcie a ihs
Lif Raectninen  iet (oPrs -"P'        g   ehro   er   fliermiig                          5peee   ther2   ecn,poetI   eret   n   or                               Rprn
of age pe  .gthoae  tin hirhedibstimated  batlate Povrty-income itel di                                                                         .. w d nar ta)-aeaa`ses 
Access to late 1CteeieAg   t fg celag on  -toal peban, a           dcoa-  '                Asatrneyboeinlisht ienSedi.nel la.o d aicia  i-lmes
blolas ofpeple(toal,acane  an   mel)wit  resonbl  aneasto  nf  enrieonelyadeont  dit  lneessntil   ae-endesqirsut  ism"
etei pl   (eidstese    afeesbr   r  eene  hrucoaia                                           foda.bile.   i
epe nb  ata  fed poetd   osaln  ap61        ng5,  e90nd   1 atltr wdtla  an      OtmtdRltv   oet  meeLvl(IR  e   npt)-ah   .A'
foan_2in..ppyt orbpdoeloaedonnecbnclr                  Ceten foe      ne   maybe
n,ad,,      shee,,Yi   naonleocs  ne tit1et nonne.  ondd-             rural area         BpRsFOnaR     eesoChEoety                re   ee   sdei           eseeeea
ccseleA,Cet  bnl  implythtitehoeleo   shr   rtehueod                                    triwt   f  omn   o  ht1L.-     -Ece  met ofliye tin. orb.t. nes.di
do   ""no    . bane  to I.peed .a  Ntepe tone :parr of the day ,in fetohing tha          tantd Pfca-aclo  Beplow A            banat Poveetyincom Led    dmwmt), -ta
fam iy' enec    fcd.                                                                       andmal-tPro.tof  oplainafebs  ndimaldahe  rebtmeRi..aec
pi  pdne  en. d"Pmimlnen ine-efesteiationef                                                                                                              t. hti    -



- 31 -
ANNEX I
ECONOKlC INDICATOkz                                   Page  4  of  5
puQLat.Ln:         -.J miLLlion (1960/
.r Per (..PLCt.  U.SdJJu (1979i
AmounL                    Average Annual Increase  11                 share of GDP at Market PrLces (Z)
(milLion Ual                  (ac conscant 1978 prices)                        (at current pricesl
Inuicacor                                   at current prices)
1979               1965-70    1970-75   ;975-dO    1980-85            1965      1470      1975      1980 /a
-..LsLVN.L ACCOUhlIL
Gross  domestic product /D                     5,647                       6.6         7.5         3..        4..2      100.0     LOO.0    LOO.U   100.0
Agriculture                                  12,766                      3.1        4.4         2.9         3.6       30.7       26.4      26.2    24.7
tlaustry /c                                  13 310                     9.5         9 .5        4.5         5.2       16.6      17.2       18.0    20.5
services                                     28,808                     8.2         8.0         4.U        4.0        42.9      46.5       46.0     47.3
co'su-ption                                     47,9U7                      5.8         7.0         3.2        3.6       84.6       82.8      84.8    82.0
Cross invebtment                                13, 140                    11.7        12.9       -'1.2        4.2        16.7      20.1      23.7      21.2
.xpurci ui g.oua a,,a NFs                        2,977                      7.9         7.3        I.5        10.7         6.1      5j.        6.1       5.4
Ln.ports of  so an  NV.                         5,378                     11.2       13.8        -6.6           .7       7._.       8.7      14.5      8.8
uross atLLunal savings                           1l,938                    11.6       .i.2         2.1         4.7        15.8      18.8       18.4    i8.5
Average Annual Increase (1)             CoSpo*stXon of Merchandise rrade (x)
(at constant 1978 Prices)                      (at current prices)
1972-75        1976-79                1965       1970        1975       1980 /I
%LMhANDlkIa TRADE
herch,nnLse exports                              2,261                             -1.0           -1.5                100.0       100.0      100.0    100.o
P'riary /a                                    L,476                            -5.0           -3.6                 80.0        83.0        64.1      61. 7
l4auU fctures                                   785                              8.3            2.9                20.0        17.0        35.9      38.3
merchancise imports                              5,069                             10.6          -14.6                100.0      100.0       100.0    100.0
FuOd                                            114                            46.0          -35.0                  6.0         9.3         8.3       2.b
Petroleum                                     1,759                             9.2           -1.8                  10.0        7.0        17.0      47.8
Macninery a equipment /t                      1,5U2                              8.0         -23.8                 39.9        39.8        38.5      21.1
Otner                                         1,694                              9.1         -12.4                 44.1        43.9        36.2      28.b
1975       1976       1977        1978       1979        1980 Ie
PiAtC~ib ANU ThsJs UF TR4ADE
G.i d-eIa.or                                                  50.0        58.6       73.1       100.0      160.0       320.0
ixcnange rate                                                 14.4       16.1        18.0       24.3        36.4        76.4
E.,.rt price L..aex                                           84.0       87.4        95.b      100.0       105.6       128.1
impaort price Lndex                                           84.2       87.6        96.0      100.0       125.6      165.2
rerm. or trade index                                          99.7       99.8        99.6      100.0        84.1        77.5
As Z of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970       1975        1980 Ie
P'UdLID. FlhASCE
Current revenue                                                         15.0         22.6        22.0       20.1
iurrent expendLture                                                     10.0         11.8       12.6        11.8
surplus (r) or dericit (-I                                              -2.0         -2.3       -0.4        -5.1
Investment expenditure                                                   4.7          5.7        4.2         4.2
IT-ansters                                                               5.0          7.5         5.5        9.3
ForeLin tinaLuiCnS                                                       1.8          1.6        0.3         0.2
1965-70     1970-75      1975-80      1981-85
vIHEk IUiXCATOKb
GNP grouth rate (7)                                                     6.8          7.7          3.2          3.9
ONP per capLta growtc  rate  7.)                                        4.1          5.0         0.7           1.4
ICOx                                                                    2.9          2.9          5.7         5.1
margiLnal savings rate kt)                                             28.2         19.5         16.7        25.8
lnporr eLastcity                                                        1.7          1.8        -1.9          U.9
a At conscant 1976 prices.
1b  At marxec prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and SuOsidies.
ic   Includes mining and quarrying, manutarturing, and electricity, gas, ans uater.
/a    Icl.ues agriculture ana sinii.g anu quarryLng.
ie   cstimace.
it   Includes metal products ano machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation venlcles.
ER20/UL



00.0 014    0001000  4N
0     000  400.00 oOoN
0'    0 oO  0I04040N0N  ON
00     040. 0N400NNO 0 0
-           ON      00.0 0 4 N 0000.0110 -o
-                       -     I      I             21
00010100  00o0N40N          0       040  ON4ONO    No.00040    NoO
ON                                  0       0.0 4...0NON 00    0.000004    ONO  NO 000  O0N044 000 0  N  040   ONN 0    04N00N 0    0.0ONN  0  000.010
0     000  010  0 000040  ON    0          NON  ONOONO    N...00N00    ONO
o     CoO  a 0 0 00 0N0.0o         N       N ON   ONO  N    000.0N4N    0 40 NONON oNo    000.000
-     000.40  NNO.0ICONN                   4     N    N          040          NNNON             N
4.00 N N    0 IN NI -                                N -     N
0                                  N      I ONNOOZ.0,NO 0    0.400000    000  00 ONNO 00    004004
0     000 0' 0000040N   N N    0           .0NON000NO       4040N00    000               .
0     O'00 0 00400000  0           N       00.00-4          040N0NN    0NNN.0 COONON    000N00
-     ONO .0 0 N OOOONN  N                 o                0o   4NO          N              ...N    00                     C
- IN NI  N                                                                          C                     *0
0'            140                                                                   lI
ol                    10000440000    N ONNOON    044  00 040000    000000   CO
0'           0                                 CO       0 00N40440    04N0004    NOb                                 000                  41
04           N     000 41.0 ONON 104 410                0.0.-.  0 .0 .0  00..*INON0    400.00000.040'    0400.000  0                       10
o            0     .400 ONONNO  .00 0    0                               4NNNN             N      .00     NON        CNN                   0  .0
CN       .   .      0
o                  NOON  N    410 N                                                                                  C0     .410  N       01
I...                       I          I                                                                             0         40   N           0
0o                   0
0      00 O0000N00    0004000    000                                   0                  -  .0
-               000 010  0 o0o 100 .40    N        I 00NN000040    00.00.000    000 000NOONN           000000   Oco                    .0
00           0                                  N       oN    0 N N    000.0000    ONO  00000000    0004000' 04                            0  I
000  0N4N00040                                     00   0 0                 N.0N    NNN        04                   01 .0
a         .0    NON    N    NI   - I                                                                           - 0.0                    0   C
0     '400 ONOoN 00    000400N    .00.0 40 N4000N    000040                               0   C
000  004  0        oN    0       00 0NN4040    0004440    ONN                                                       0
O                            040140          .0      ON    N          0000000    NNN  00 000000    000400
0     0010 0No  .0 o0n  00
01     0o0    0       I  N
0          0                                    0      INN 040NN00 0    0000000    4NN  ON 400.000    0000.04                              0  0
0' 0               000  0000000100  00    0             000 NONNO    0000044    000                                                        0
0                                               N      ONo .0N          00   000    ON   ON 440000    000000
040  0001 0 NOo ON 0                                 00   N N          N       NON   -                                 0
 .                000000000000                                                                                                               .2
000     N     I   o   .0                                                                                              01   0
C .0
a                                                                                                                                          N   4
000000040010040                                                                                                        0 01
0            0     00.00000  0000.00                                                                                                           0
C            .0    0.00 0 0 0 ON.0 04 4
C                                                        . 00 I0    C
0     04 OONOONOOIOONO                                                                                                      00  .0
Ci                 0
0000.0
0     400  0000000  NO N                                           a                                                        01 1.414
I    I                                                                                                 000100
0        .                     41001
o  0                           41  oo
0                              00010
01  0                          .0140000
C0 4.                          000
40  CC                         00001
0               CI                                 0>  00                           C 0
001 *1C          014      000
00                        OC4
a   C.  41       014    Co                       0    '01
00            0                                                            0                          00 00                          0000
0                                                   0 00                          000
O a 0.                              0                                                   N    0                         0000
.40CC C  0        4.0                             004
0 I 00                                               4100 01          CC Co                           00 0
0.0 C C                           Co
CoO  4 0 C oO                       0   oCO.                                            CO 00                          00  C
4 000  C 4 0 001o0  0 0..         04                                                      000 00.                         00.0
0 .000               I             0                                                      004001                          0000
0   00            010014. 00       0 C                                                    0.00CC           000            0-00
C - 41 10001  0  C         0 00104  4010                                          0410.0                          00.00
0 CCC.  C'10                   01                     .44.NOC               40      aCOOC
10  .4Co   44         0 104000000CC  0 040                                                    001000          0
.00CC                        000
00000410004100.00.0.4
0.40                            0 .0                               COOCO  0              04100
oa0.           4  C CC         N 0               .               0.0     000000  00000001                            CC0.I4
01001400                   0 4               0                100.00  000000  0      000        .0 0010           CCOO    N
0010004                    0 .0                                                   o4400                                  44
I    I    I   I  01.0
aO.                0 0.4 OC.001044  -0        0 C                                                 N040N               C           0I.0ICiOiCiOO   No



- 33 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                  Purpose                          Bank       IDA   Undisbursee
Twenty-four loans and.fourteen credits fully disbursed                      814.5      177.4
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                         13.5                 0.2
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Water Supply             37.0                 9.2
883-TV   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                   44.0                18.0
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project                     46.7                 1.1
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0                 0.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                   148.0                44.0
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      -Industry                          40.0                 0.5
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                 75.0                39.1
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                54.3                31.1
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                         70.0                 8.3
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                     21.5                11.2
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0                 9.2
1310-TV   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                           26.0                22.5
1379-TU  '1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0                19.7
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0                 9.0
1585-TI   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0                67.4
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0                22.2
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0                80.2
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0                75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Grain Storage                     85.0                85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0                53.3
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0                62.4
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles           15.0                15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control       6.0                 5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Karakaya Hydropower              120.0               120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Sumerbank Cotton Textiles         83.0                81.9
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Livestock V                       51.0                51.0
1915-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment
Supplement                     75.0                 52.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Petroleum Exploration             25.0                25.0
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Oil Recovery                      62.0                62.0
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey        Labor Intensive Industry          40.0                40.0
Total                                                    2597.5 /b  177.4   1205.3
of which has been repaid                                230.9        6.4
Total now outstanding                                    2326.6      171.0
Anount sold                      3.6
of which has been repaid       3.6                        0 -     - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        2326.6      171.0
Total undisbursed                                        1205.3        0     1205.3
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b Excludes 140 million loan for the Second Fruit and Vegetable Project approved
by the Board on March 31, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor        Type of Business                    Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB           DFC                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II        DFC                                  -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III       DFC                                  -        0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I       Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.62      3.12
1970     ACS            Class                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS          Aluminum                            7.00      1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                            0.75       -        0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                         -        0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV        DFC                                  -        0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V         DFC                                10.00       -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz        Tourism                             0.33      0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan        Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA           Textiles                           10.QO       -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                              1.30       -        1.30
1975     Sasa           Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -       15.00
1975     Aslan          Cement                             10.60       -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS         Steel                               7.50      1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB           DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS          Aluminum                            1.58       -        1.58
1976     TSKB           DFC                                25.00       -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                                12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan        Steel Pipes                          -        0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS         Steel                                -        0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                    2.15       -        2.15
1979     ISAS           Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.62      0.68      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                  -        1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Can   Glass                                33.15      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB           DFC                                  -        1.09      1.09
1980     ISAS           Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -        0.95      0.95
1980     HENSA          Textile and Fibers                  4.00       -        4.00
Total Gross Commitments                         192.48    19.56   212.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
- and Sales                                     120.31      3.49   123.80
Total Commitments now held by IFC                72.17     16.07    88.24
Total Undisbursed                                   .50     0.23        .73



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project:  US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4. 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftlv in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system, required to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources, are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US344 million
loan and US930 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed.
Progress in 1980 was in general satisfactory. The pace of construction of the
power-house was lower than forecast, but is not expected to delay completion.
The construction of the irrigation system is progressinig, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 30,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about 50 percent
completed. Tile drainage is being delaved until the main drains are located.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as regards consul-
tants; the Government is taking steps to hire the latter. Project is expected
to be completed by end 1983.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date;  August 28, 1973.  Closing Date;  June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory.  Over 95 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as
appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Project is expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US140 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date; May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. Most of the main ancillary
process equipment is in place, but construction is hindered by material
shortages. The project is expected to be completed by January 1982 and
production commence in mid-year, two and a half years behind the revised
schedule. Sufficient foreign currency is available to complete the project.
Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are now being made.
Substantial price increases in 1980 should enable the company to meet most of
the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1.974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date. July_30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds has
helped resume momentum.  The colenders and the Government agreed in November
1980 on a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation
problems; this program is now being implemented.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development:  US$75 million loan of JuLne 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily though because
of disruptions in construction it is probable that the irrigation works will
be completed only by end 1983. Corum dam has been completed as also the works
to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds. Kumbaba pumping station is ready,



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
and irrigation has started. Alaca dam is expected to be completed by end
1981. Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
repaired and the tunnel lining is almost finished. Contracts for the irri-
gation system of the Guldercek area has been awarded and work is in progress.
The project extension service is operating successfully and its impact on
agriculture is promising. The Government has replaced one of the two vacant
consultant posts. Further construction of village centers is being delayed
until agreement is reached on satisfactory plan for using and maintaining
existing centers and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date; April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is almost complete, somewhat behind schedule, and
almost the entire loan is committed.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date; May 11, 1977. Closing Date; Seprember 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports in
-Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. Government is reviewing possible measures to overcome
this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved lending
procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this component is
being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, consultants have
begun the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on !May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint:  US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date; October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is nearing physical completion. The sawmill has begun
operations, although wood supply and marketing problems now must be resolved.
Recent price increases have helped to correct the local currency shortage
situation and the project is expected to start production in early 1981, 2
years behind the appraisal schedule.  Trial production ruus have already begun.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III:  US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976.  Effective
Date; February 25, 1977. Closing Date; March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government has taken some measures, and is reviewing
others to correct the situation. A higher than expected proportion of
sub-loans has been made to small farmers. The Governmental budget required
for 1981 has been approved in its entirety.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is underway, with progress
being made in preparation of specifications and project design work, although
the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than expected
due to staffina constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date; July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1982.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the next few months.
DYB still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms will
enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing
Date; December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and the loan has been fully committed. TSKB
has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its resources to
projects in less developed regions and export-oriented industries. It has so
far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.



- 39 -
ANNFX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: USIR6.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date;  October 30, 1978.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1936.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring them internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV:  USW24.O million loan of June 5, 1978.  Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has been
initiated. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily completed.
International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably delayed, is
underway, and the staffing requirements agreed upon with the Bank have been
met. The 1981 budget has beer, approved in its entirety.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel; US095.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the pheno'l treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Product selling prices
have been substantially increased in January 1931. Production from existing
facilities has been severely restricted from time to time because of the lack
of raw materials due to the limited av;-ailability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US375 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: Januarv 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Procurem.ent is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a
project manager to implement the project related training pro-rams. The port
sector planning studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are
being taken to correct this.
Ln. No. 1742 Crain Storage:  t1S485 million of July 2, 1979.  Effective Date:
January 21, 1980.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Proposals from prequalified
consultants for engineering design and supervision of construction are under
evaluation.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date; October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 75
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979.  Effective Date:  February 29,
1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are in place. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 25 percent of the loan has been
committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979.  Effective Date:  April 4, 1980.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization: US$83
million loan of Mav 28, 1980.  Effective Date:  Februarv 27, 1981.  Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984.
Project implementation has begun. Arrangements for consultants are
nearly finalized and procurement actions have commenced.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V:  US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980.  Effective
Date: October 22,. 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants are being selected.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1915 Structural Adjustment Loan Su plement; US¢75 million loan of
November 24, 1980. Effective Date: January 7, 1981.
Closing Date: August 31, 1981.
The loan disbursements were $37 million as of April 15, 1981.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective, but actions are under way to initiate
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project:
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date; June 30, 1981.
Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective, but actions are under way to initiate
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project: US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - STATE INDUbTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:   9 months (February 1980-
November 1980)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                   Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
(DYB) and beneficiary
companies.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                      June 1980.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                      November 1980.
(e)  Negotiations completed:                             April 1981.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      August 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Closer than usual supervision of subprojects.
III. Special Conditions
A.   Special conditions of disbursements:
(i) Disbursement for each subloan would be conditional upon
subloan approval by the Bank based upon DYB's completing an
appraisal report and entering into a subloan agreement both
acceptable to the Bank (para. 66).
B.   Other Main Conditions
(i) Specified covenants would be included in DYB's onlending
agreements with beneficiaries (paras. 41, 66, and 72).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) Government will continue to permit KBI and Karabuk the
flexibility to set prices based on cost of production under
conditions of efficient operation, investment requirements,
and market conditions, authorize sufficient contract positions
for the beneficiary SEEs and DYB to assure adequate staffing
and introduce a system of monitoring indices of bEE
performance (para. 41).
(iii)  Government and the Bank will exchange views periodically on
the progress, with respect to DYB and the beneficiary SEEs, in
implementing the program of reforms of the SEE system (paras.
39, 40, and 41).
(iv) DYB would by June 30, 1982 fill key staff vacancies and would
utilize appraisal criteria acceptable to the Bank in making
investments (para. 46).
(v) Revision of sugar pricing policies (para. 49).
(vi) Beneficiaries would conduct their affairs so as to generate
the internal funds required for the project and would not
undertake nonproject investments above $5 million per annum
without the approval of DYB (para. 63).
(vii) Interest rates for DYB foreign and local currency loans under
the project to be respectively the cost of borrowing plus a
3.5 percent spread to DYB and the prevailing market rates
(para. 65).
(viii)  Initiation of a basic study of DYB's future role in the SEE
system under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para.
46).



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY - STATE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE PROJECT
SUBPROJECT DEbCRIPTION
The subprojects included in the proposed project include:
(a) sugar component (SEKER). The provision of machinery, equipment,
and technical assistance to SEKER to complete: the expansion of its Ankara
factory from 1,500 tons of beets per day (tpd) to 3,000 tpd; the expansion of
its Susurluk factory from 3,000 tpd to 6,000 tpd; and the construction of a
new factory at Ilgin with a capacity of 6,000 tpd. A list of major items of
equipment will be agreed with DYB and includes: centrifugal machines, vacuum
pans, lime kilns, pulp pressers, pulp drying and processing equipment,
boilers, packaging equipment and bagging equipment.
The sugar projects are estimated to cost a total of $156.7 million
equivalent including $1.5 million for technical assistance, of which $29.4
million is foreign exchange. In addition, $17.8 million is required for
financial charges during construction and $12.9 million for incremental
working capital, or a total financing requirement of $187.4 million (of which
$32.8 million is foreign exchange). Since all three projects are underway,
approximately $60 million has been spent, including about $6.7 million of
foreign exchange. Thus, to complete the project, about $127.4 million is
required, of which $26.1 million is foreign exchange. The Bank loan will
provide $22.7 million to finance 100 percent of the remaining foreign costsl/,
excluding $3.4 million of foreign financial charges during construction. DYB
will provide a loan for about $30.2 million equivalent and commercial banks
and supplier's credits an additional $14.2 million equivalent. The remainder
will come from SEKER. In total, SEKER will provide about $60.3 million
equivalent of additional funds.
On completion, the project plants will provide an additional 169,000
tpy of sugar. Unit costs in the expansion plant at Ankara are expected to
decline from about $0.50/kg before the project, to about $0.40/kg, if
financial charges are included, but decline to about t0.32/kg if they are
excluded. The new factory at Ilgin is expected to produce at about $0.36/kg,
reflecting the higher sugar recovery of the plant. These compare favorably
with cif costs of sugar of $0.54/kg.
(b) Iron (Karabuk). The provision and installation of machinery,
equipment and refractories and the provision of technical assistance to expand
the capacity of the raw material preparation facilities to support an increase
of production of hot metal from 600,000 (tpy) to about 900,000 and to permit
1/ Or the ex-factory cost of any contracts won by local firms on the basis of
international competitive bidding or 75 percent of total costs in the case
of any local consultants.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
blast furnace temperatures to be raised from about 700 degrees centigrade to
about 1,200 degrees centigrade. The project will specifically support the;
construction of a primary storage yard and erection of two wagon trippers and
reclaimers; erection of a iron ore crushing and screening plant; erection of a
coal and limestone grinding plant; construction of ore mixing beds, storage
bins and conveyors; and construction of a blast furnace burden preparation
plant. In addition, the project will replace the existing refractory bricks
in all nine stoves with about 10,800 tons of new bricks of improved design and
shape, replace ring pipes and burners in the existing nine stoves and provide
additional instrumentation to monitor stack gas temperatures.
The iron project is expected to cost a total of $48.8 million of
which $26.4 million is foreign exchange. In addition, $16.2 million will be
required for financial charges during construction and $6.7 million for
incremental working capital requirements. Total financial requirements are
thus about $71.7 million of which $30.3 million is foreign exchange. Because
the modernization project is underway, Karabuk has already spent about $15
million equivalent, including about $4.1 million of foreign exchange. Thus to
complete the project, about $56.7 million is required of which about $26.2
million is in foreign exchange. The Bank loan of $22.3 million would finance
100 percent of the remaining foreign costs 1/, excluding the $3.9 million of
foreign interest during construction. DYB would provide a subloan for about
$28 million equivalent, and Karabuk the remainder. In total, Karabuk will
provide about $6.4 million equivalent of additional funds.
As a result of the modernization and expansion, Karabuk's unit cost
of iron production is expected to decline about 13 percent from about $179/ton
to $157/ton in constant prices. These compare favorably with cif costs of
about $245/ton. The project will result in an additional 300,000 tons of pig
iron when completed in 1984.
(c) Copper (KBI). Provision and installation of machinery and
equipment and provision of technical assistance to debottleneck and modernize
mining and concentration activities at Murgul to increase mining capacity and
increase production of copper concentrate (17 percent copper content) to about
168,000 tpy. This will lead to increases in production of blister copper (99
percent copper content) from 13,000 tpy to 33,700 tpy, sulphuric acid from
60,000 tpy to 240,000 tpy and pyrite concentrate from 15,000 tpy to 133,000
tpy.
1/ Or the ex-factory cost of any contracts won by local firms on the basis of
international competitive bidding or 75 percent of total costs in the case of
any local consultants.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
The copper project is estimated to cost $31.3 million, of which $24.7
million is in foreign exchange. In addition, $7.2 million is required for
financial charges during construction and $2.1 million for incremental working
capital. The total financial requirements are thus $40.6 million, of which
$28.0 million is in foreign exchange. The Bank loan of $25.0 million will
finance 100 percent of the foreign costs 1/ including working capital but
excluding the $3.0 million for foreign financial charges which will be borne
by KBI. DYB will provide a TL loan of $5.3 million equivalent. In total, KBI
will provide about $10.3 million equivalent.
As a result of the debottlenecking and modernization, KBI's unit cost
of production of blister copper is projected to drop from the current level of
$2100/ton to $1060/ton after 1983, a nearly 50 percent reduction, and well
below projected cif prices of $2400/ton in 1985.
1/ Or the ex-factory cost of any contracts won by local firms on the basis of
international competitive bidding or 75 percent of total costs in the case of
any local consultants.



B U L G A R I A                                        8-  /a  c kSea
Edirne, Kirkrerii                                                   Sblop                                                      U. S. S. R.
ortin     Kr
urul
cj,SEA QFm MA WAze
&   *              X                      YTE   v-                         ~~~~~~STATE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r u r
p '<                         ~~FINANCE PROJECT
M       e d ite rmLaneohn Seala3
t        U                      S                                      Project Locations
AI SU9Or fA(-.FOr;K                                                   F/                         |POLANOi)r
*   Iran  ond   s$eui    works                                       /                             .    x       U      S       S       R       . ~n
*   Caper mhrn and prcsngi focilities                                                                                                        7 [     ^__\_n/ x.
Prowicial boundwies                                            /            1                                                                -  .    t    >
-Maoin roaids                                       )                                              RcMA..UA i   baki     rt -
-.----- Rasilways                                                   /                                     OANA-,-o,~t                          '   <<
-*-InternatIionai boundaries  s r a                                                                                                         re
Rivers   /                                                                    ara§                vere
14-~~~ ~ ~      ~ 4. b.                                                                                 Mar in                        +'
0        100      200       100            go- tn                                                                                a r a  i
KILONtETES                                             /                                       W    V <        T UZR KME Y         R A Q
It /b                                                                    2i0                                                  *-s    \          -I
MILES                                                                                                          C                  IRAN ~~~~~Ala
TURKYRA)IA
30  ~~~~~~~~~~IE                                                        TT   INDUSRIALENTERPRISE



