OFP~T C IA
LOAN NUMBER 1998 TU
Loan Agreement
(State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Dated       -oce     3       , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1998 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       u     3        , 1981, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a State Economic Enterprise established and
operating under the laws of the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-borrower for
an Investment Project and "Sub-loan agreement" means the agreement
or agreements between the Borrower and a Sub-borrower setting
forth the terms and conditions of a Sub-loan.
(b) "Sub-borrower" means any of the following or other State
Economic Enterprises to be agreed between the Guarantor, the Bank
and the Borrower:
Turkiye Seker Fabrikalari A.S. (hereinafter called TSF);
Karabuk Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari (hereinafter called KDC);
and
Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri A.S. (hereinafter called KBI).
(c)  "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan.


﻿-2-
(d)  "Liras" and "TL" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(e) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower as defined
in Law No. 441, of 1964, of the Guarantor, including the regula-
tions issued pursuant to the said law by Decree No. 7/8568 of the
Guarantor's Council of Ministers, dated July 9, 1974 and promul-
gated in the Guarantor's Official Gazette No. 14960 on July 29,
1974, as such Statutes and Regulations may be amended from time to
time.
(g) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(h) "T.C. Merkez Bankasi" means TUrkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez
Bankasi, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 1211 promulgated in the official
Gazette of the Republic of Turkey No. 13409 of January 26, 1970 as
amended.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable foreign-currency cost and, if procured through proce-
dures set forth and referred to in Part A of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, the local-currency ex-factory cost of goods and ser-
vices, as well as 75% of the total cost of the services of consul-
tants referred to in paragraph 2 (i) through (viii) and paragraph
3 of the Schedule 3 of this Agreement in the case of local consul-
tants; all as required for the Investment Project in respect of


﻿-3-
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan
unless the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by a
Sub-borrower if such expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have re-
ceived in respect of such Sub-loan the application, documentation
and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for
approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a final draft
copy of the respective Sub-loan agreement including terms and
conditions consistent with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement and otherwise satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on
or before September 30, 1981.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a com-
mitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in releunt part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans which have
been approved under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Such amendments of said Sciicdilie i shall include amendments
to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) Unless the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the amortization schedule applicable to each
Sub-loan shall provide for an appropriate period of grace not to
exceed five years and, (i) shall not extend beyond 15 years from
the date of approval by the Bank of such Sub-loan, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.


﻿-5-
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 2.10. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
with high priority of Sub-borrowers in Turkey as will contribute
to the economic and social development of the country. Except as
the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Project consists in the financing of the following Investment
Projects:
1.   Expansion of TSF's sugar factory at Ankara to a capacity
of about 3,000 tons of beets per day;
2.   Expansion of TSF's sugar factory at Susurluk to a
capacity of about 6,000 tons of beets per day;
3.   Establishment by TSF of a new sugar factory at Ilgin
with a capacity of about 6,000 tons of beets per day;
4.   Modernization of KDC's iron and steel plant at Karabuk
by installation of raw material preparation facilities
including a primary storage yard, an iron ore crushing
and screening and a coal and limestone grinding plant;
5.   Modernization of KDC's iron and steel plant at Karabuk
by replacement of refractories in the hot stoves serving


﻿-6-
the blast furnaces and ring pipes and burners, and
acquisition of additional instrumentation to measure
stack temperatures;
6.   Modernization and expansion of KBI's copper mining
and concentration complex at Murgul to increase capacity
to about 168,000 tons of copper concentrate per year and
to about 133,000 tons of pyrites per year;
all in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, each of the Investment Projects specified in paragraph
(a) hereof, shall include the carrying out of the actions referred
to in paragraph 2 (i) through (viii) and paragraph 3 of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate finan-
cial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel in adequate numbers and in accordance with the Statutes.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including provisions consistent with those set forth or referred
to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project. In order to assist it in handling the
specialized technical aspects of the foregoing, the Borrower shall
employ consultants, on a short-term basis, as needed in accordance
with a supervision program agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(i) the study, program and description of the system, as the case
may be, referred to paragraph 2 (iii) through (viii) of Schedule 3
to this Agreement, promptly after their receipt and afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon before the


﻿-7-
Borrower shall give its final comments to the Sub-borrowers; and
(ii) at regular intervals, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Sub-borrowers, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall each calendar quarter review the
progress of each Investment Project and produce a comprehensive
report of each such review and its findings.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall assist the Guarantor
in carrying out the study referred to in Section 3.06 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall lend to any Sub-borrower
such TL funds as shall be required, considering the cash genera-
tion capacity of such Sub-borrower for carrying out the Investment
Project in respect of which a Sub-loan has been approved by the
Bank, with the same amortization period as such Sub-loan and at
an interest rate and at fees as referred to in Section 4.09 of
this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall continue to apply in its
lending operations criteria for project appraisal as have been
agreed with the Bank.


﻿-8-
Section 3.08. Not later than June 30, 1982, the Borrower
shall employ additional duly qualified and experienced staff,
including staff on a contract basis, in numbers sufficient to
carry out its increased responsibilities during calendar year
1982.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenents
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on the Loan and that in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower


﻿-9-
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such a manner
as shall be necessary to maintain a ratio of at least 1.3 to 1
between (i) payments of loan principal, interest and other charges
from its debtors (hereinafter called Loan Receipts) and (ii)
payments of loan principal (excluding frozen deposits of T.C.
Merkez Bankasi, if any), interest and other charges tu its credi-
tors (hereinafter called Debt Payments);
(b) promptly after the end of each fiscal year, calculate
the ratio in paragraph (a) above on the basis of actual Loan
Receipts and Debt Payments for each such fiscal year and project
it for each of the two following fiscal years on the basis of
scheduled Loan Receipts and Debt Payments for loans and debts
outstanding as of the beginning of such following period of two
fiscal years; and
(c) whenever the ratio in paragraph (a) above shall fall
below the limit referred to therein or whenever there is reason to
believe that such ratio cannot be expected to be met over the
following twelve months, promptly (i) consult with the Guarantor
and the Bank or such action as shall be necessary or advisable to
bring such ratio within the required limit by the end of the
Borrower's current fiscal year, and (ii) implement such action.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against


﻿- 10 -
risk of loss resulting from ch,nges in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including liras) used in its operations.
Section 4.07. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, continue to exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower, and
the Borrower shall continue to furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to review the records referred to in Section 4.01
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall charge a commitment fee and
interest on its foreign-currency Sub-loans at the rates specified
in Section 2.05 and 2.06, respectively, of this Agreement plus a
spread of 3.5% and taxes and charges at the applicable rates; and,
in respect of loans in liras made pursuant to Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, shall charge interest and other fees at levels com-
parable to those charged by financial institutions in Turkey on
similar loans net of any interest rebates applicable to loans from
such financial institutions which are not applicable in the case
of the Borrower. All foreign exchange risks in respect of foreign
currency sub-loans shall be passed on to the Sub-borrowers.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance o- maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instrument, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceabler
(b) a hange shall have been made in the Statutes which
would mate .ally and adversely affect the operations or the
financial coadition of the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of        en       ,1T27  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
Dev1et Yatirim Bankasi
Milli Mudafaa Caddesi No. 20
Ankara
Turkey
Cable address:
YATIRIMBANK
Ankara
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By >
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
On each   April 1 and
October 1
beginning October 1, 1984
through   October 1, 1995                       2,915,000
On April 1, 1996                                2,955,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To The extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Sectio,i 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalints determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.90%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.85%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     7.05%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.30%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
each Sub-loan agreement shall inter alia:
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with, inter alia, appropriate technical, financial,
marketing and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records;
(ii) require the Sub-borrower to conduct its affairs in such
a manner as to generate an amount from internal sources as to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Sub-borrower under a financing
plan for the Investment Project;
(iii) require that (1) the goods and civil works to be financ-
ed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and (2) the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iv) authorize the Borrower to examine, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(v) require that (1) the Sub-borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with appropriate
business practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of their use or installa-
tion, any indemnity thereunder to be made freely usable by the
Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(vi) require the Sub-borrower to furnish all such information
to the Bank or the Borrower as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Sub-borrower;


﻿- 17 -
(vii) authorize the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right
of the Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its
Sub-loan agreement;
(viii) require the Sub-borrower to furnish the Borrower as soon
as available but in any case no later than April 30 in each year,
copies of its provisional financial statements to be prepared in
accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently
applied, and to be in such detail as the Borrower shall have
reasonably requested;
(ix) require the Sub-borrower to furnish the Borrower as soon
as available copies of its certified financial statements;
(x) require that the Sub-borrower shall not, except with the
permission of the Borrower, make expenditures or commitments for
expenditures for capital additions in any year prior to completion
of the Investment Project exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent per
annum except for expenditures or commitments for expenditures
required to carry out the Investment Project and those required
for normal maintenance; for purposes of this paragraph "capital
additions" means the aggregate of all the expenditures or costs
incurred for the acquisition and ownership of land, buildings,
machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures and other tangible
fixed assets and investments in, or loans to, other entities;
(xi) require that the Sub-borrower shall not make distribu-
tions in respect of its capital except out of its accumulated
adjusted net earnings and subject to the requirements under the
financing plan referred to in paragraph (ii) hereof and those set
forth in paragraph 2 (x) of this Schedule; and
(xii) conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound engineering, industrial, financial and administrative
practices with qualified management and inter alia delegate
sufficient authority and responsibilities from its Board of
Directors to *its General Director and, as appropriate, to its
plant managers to enable such person or persons to efficiently
conduct the day-to-day operations of the Sub-borrower and its
operating units.
2.   In addition, each Sub-loan agreement shall require that
the Sub-borrower shall:


﻿- 18 -
(i) curtail the hiring of new staff for existing operations
except for highly qualified engineers, technologists and financial
experts and by December 31, 1982, develop in accordance with sound
management principles a plan for the rationalization of its staff,
both at its factories and its head offices;
(ii) by September 30, 1982, review its compensation, selec-
tion and promotion policies for technical and management staff and
suitably adjust its salary structure and its selection and promo-
tion policies, in accordance with applicable laws, as required to
attract and to retain qualified and experienced technical and
management staff;
(iii) by December 31, 1982 complete a study, with the assist-
ance of qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Borrower, to design an incentive system for promoting efficiency
in its plants, and to introduce such system upon completion of the
study after affording the Borrower a reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon;
(iv) develop and thereafter carry out with the assistance of
qualified and experienced management consultants acceptable to the
Borrower, a comprehensive program for training its technical and
managerial staff at all levels at its plants and head offices; the
details of such program shall be communicated to the Borrower
by September 30, 1982, foT its review;
(v) furnish by September 30, 1981 to the Borrower for its
review a staffing plan for the departments responsible for the
construction and commissioning of the Investment Project, adequate
to meet the projected workload; and the Sub-borrower shall intro-
duce appropriate control systems for cost and time management of
the Investment Project;
(vi) furnish by September 30, 1981 to the Borrower for its
review a detailed implementation plan for the Investment Project;
and the Sub-borrower shall thereafter submit to the Borrower
quarterly reports on the progress made in the construction of
plant and the installation of equipment, and on the financial
expenditures incurred, under the Investment Project;
(vii) by September 30, 1982 prepare, with the assistance of
qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the Borrower,
an appropriate system of cost accounting and budgetary control,
including a system for setting standard costs, targets for output,


﻿- 19 -
quality, raw material and auxiliary material usage and labor
utilization for each plant and introduce such system after con-
sultation with the Borrower and maintain it thereafter;
(viii) by September 30, 1982 prepare, with the assistance of
qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the Borrower,
and furnish to the Borrower, an action program to improve its
production management, plant safety and preventive maintenance
practices, such program to be carried out after consultation with
the Borrower;
(ix) operate its plants in accordance with the Guarantor's
environmental laws and regulations;
(x) reduce by December 31, 1982 its long-term debt-equity
ratio to below 60:40 and attain a current ratio above 1:1 and
shall thereafter so maintain such ratios at all times; for this
purpose "long-term debt" means any debt maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred; and
(xi) employ, as deemed necessary by the Borrower, engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower, to
assist the Sub-borrowers in constructing and commissioning of new
facilities and equipment included in the Project and training
staff of the Sub-borrowers in the operation thereof.
3.   In addition, the Sub-loan agreement with TSF shall require
TSF to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions are satisfactory to the Borrower, to assist
TSF in strengthening its technical extension staff and services
to upgrade agronomic practices of farmers supplying beet to its
factories.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided 'n Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Sub-borrowers shall
prepare and forward to the Bank, with a copy to the Borrower, as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Sub-
Borrowers shall provide the Bank, with copies to the Borrower, the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establi3h the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Turkey if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Sub-Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied. in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4. If, as a result of -the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an a:mount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or'(ii) 15% of the-c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group .C


﻿- 22 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts estimated to cost not more than $1,000,000
may be awarded through limited international tendering on the
basis of not less than three quotations from member countries of
the Bank, Switzerland and Taiwan.
2.   Equipment and spare parts may be purchased without
bidding or shopping if the Bank has concurred that such purchase
is justified by the need for compatibility of such equipment or
spare parts with equipment in operation.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Sub-borrowers shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank, with a copy to the
Borrower, in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Sub-borrowers to the Bank for its comments, with
a copy to the Borrower, before the applicants are notified of
the Sub-borrowers' decision, and the Sub-borrowers shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank'shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $1,000,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Sub-borrowers shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, with a copy to the Borrower, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 23 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Sub-
borrowers shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank, with a copy to the Borrower, of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Bank, with a copy to the Borrower, in sufficient time for
the Bank's review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Sub-borrower and the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Sub-borrowers shall furnish to the Bank, with a
copy to the Borrower, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Sub-
borrower and the Borrower and state the reasons for such determi-
nation.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, the Sub-borrowers shall
inform the Bank, with a copy to the Borrower, of the proposed
modification, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Sub-borrower and the Borrower and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  AAL     day of    L, 198    .
FOR SECRETARY


