Document of
FILE COPY                                 The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2175a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE COMMUNITY OF YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
March 10, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                               Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                        Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                      US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                                  US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                              US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
As of December 31, 1977 the rate was Din. 18.4452 = $1.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL        -        Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI         -        Community of Interest
CRO         -        The Council of Republican and Provincial Roads
Organization
CYR         -         Community of Yugoslav Railways
LDR         -        Less Developed Region (of Yugoslavia)
RTE         -        Railway Transport Enterprise
RTO         -         Railway Transport Organization
SAE         -         Social Agreement on Economic Measures
SAP         -         Socialist Autonomous Province
SFRY        -        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SR          -         Socialist Republic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA: FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:            Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:               $100 million equivalent, in various currencies
Loan Distribution:  $0.5 million for technical assistance allocated to CYR
for eventual re-allocation to Railway Transport Enter-
prises (RTEs). $99.5 million allocated to RTEs as
follows:
US$ million
Sarajevo                                     18.5
Zagreb                                        16.7
Belgrade                                      13.6
Ljubljana                                     13.4
Novi Sad                                      13.2
Skopje                                        10.6
Pristina                                       9.0
Titograd                                       4.5
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including three years of grace
with interest at 7.45 percent.
Relending Terms:    Loan proceeds will be on-lent to the RTEs on the same
basic terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Project
Description:        The project consists of the 1978-80 slice of the Yugoslav
Railways 1976-80 Investment Plan. The objective of the
Plan and the project, is the modernization of facilities
to improve the efficiency and competitive position of
the railways. The principal components of the Investment
Plan are the overhaul of about 2,000 km of track, the
electrification of about 700 km, station and track recon-
struction, modernization of signalling and telecommunica-
tion and the purchase of traction and rolling stock; about
two-thirds of the investments are replacements. These
investments are required to enable the railways to play
their assigned role in the economic objectives of Yugos-
lavia's 1976-80 Development Plan. This Plan emphasizes
the development of industries using domestic raw and semi-
processed materials, particularly in the less developed
regions (LDRs), which depend to a considerable extent on
rail transport.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Improved planning and management procedures developed in
connection with previous lending operations, and the
quality of management, do not suggest any significant risk
insofar as physical implementation is concerned. Ensuring
financial viability may again prove difficult.
The establishment of the Communities of Interest (COIs)
who, as users of the railways, will provide the bulk of
the compensation payments, can be expected to result in
considerable pressure on the railways, to improve their
operations and financial condition. This, together with
the Government's firm commitment to these policies and
the adoption of a rolling system of planning investments
provides grounds for optimism that financial viability
can be attained.
Estimated Cost:                                     -   US$ Million -------
Local    Foreign      Total
Capital overhaul
of track                  217        122         339
Line & Station
Reconstruction            210         58         268
Signalling &
Telecommunication           96       124         220
Traction & Rolling
Stock                     142        220         362
Miscellaneous                230        109        339
895       633        1528
Contingencies - Physical    74          40         114
- Price      202        143         345
1171       816        1987
Financing Plan:                               US$ Million    Percent of Total
IBRD                          100                5
Internal Resources            624              31
Loans /1                      827               42
Suppliers Credits            316                16
Grants /2                     120                6
1987              100
/1   Mainly from Yugoslav banks and Republican and Provincial Governments.
/2   From Republican and Provincial Governments and Municipalities.



- iii -
Estimated                                         $ Millions
Disbursements:                    Bank FY   1979         1980        1981
Annual                   30.8       39.8        29.4
Cumulative              30.8        70.6       100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          15 percent.
Appraisal Report    Report No. 1740-YU dated March 10, 1978.  Railway Ports
and Pipelines Division. Projects Department, EMENA
Region.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE COMMUNITY OF YUGOSLAV RAILWAYS WITH
THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR), with the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of US$100.0
million to help finance a fifth railway project.  The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7.45 percent per
annum.  The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the eight Railway Trans-
port Enterprises and Organizations (RTEs) 1/ on the same basic terms and
conditions as the Bank loan.
I. THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its draft report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", was reviewed in the Bank and by the Government
and is presently being finalized. Some of the material gathered by the Mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
1/   In this report the abbreviation RTE embraces all Railway Enterprises and
Organizations. RTO is only used when it is necessary to differentiate
between the new RTOs and the older RTEs.
2/   Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Ninth Highway
Project (Report No. P-2188-YU) of March 8, 1978.



-2-
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers),.mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5 employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.



- 3 -
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--is one of the most important develop-
ment issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia and
Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment,
which basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita incomes about
two-thirds of the national average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated less developed regions. The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30
percent of the national average (about US$500.0 equivalent for 1976), is the
least developed region. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back
further to intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per
capita income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1,
and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs
which largely determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of
economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for
Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
versus 0.7 percent in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended
to widen. In order to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and
social development in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since
1971, net credits on highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of
around 50 percent) were made available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about
20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. These transfers
amounted to about US$430 million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about
US$250 million equivalent being transferred as budgetary grants for social
services. The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in
line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure. A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 2/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
1/   In Yugoslav definition, unemployment is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.
2/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



-4-
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
ing exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tion; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
stimulus during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
and extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
the rate of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 to 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and
receipts from tourism increased marginally. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the
current account deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
10.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
balance of payments surplus for the year. Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.7 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP growth
rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some $500 mil-
lion, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth rate and
balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic activity
which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with industrial



- 5 -
production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half of the year.
The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion of investment
and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a somewhat higher
inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15 percent). For
the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost 7 percent with
industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent. Employment is
estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers' productivity
at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however, occurred in
the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of exports and the
fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial production, which was
not compensated for by the growth of invisibles including workers' remittances,
the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected to amount to $1.3 billion
matching that for 1974. The country was able to contract the necessary for-
eign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its external reserves at about
the previous year's level. The program for 1978 envisages the stabilization
of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a reduction of the inflation rate
and a major consolidation of the foreign trade sector to improve the balance
of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the largely unutilized hydropower potential and
soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities are ferrous
metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc,
copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This



-6-
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another pricrity objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of GDP.
Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hLydro-power, are
to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the increased
emphasis on the development of power and basic industries whichi will be financed
jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-managenent planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
1/   "Social Compacts" (also referred to as Social Agreements) regulate broader
economic issues or policies and are concluded among Socio-Political Com-
munities and also involving Economic Chambers and Associations of Enter-
prises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.



-7-
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low'
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have risen in 1976 (around 18 percent), but it is
expected to level at about 17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 45 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,628
million. Of this amount, approximately 42 percent (US$676.4 million) has been
for 15 loans for the transportation sector--8 for highways, 4 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans. Five loans
totalling US$206 million (13 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia)
have been made for agriculture and agro-industries. Ten loans amounting to
US$200 million (about 12 percent of the total) have also been made for indus-
try and two for tourism amounting to US$30 million. The $27 million first
Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition,
IFC has made investments in eleven Yugoslav enterprises totalling about US$154
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IFC invest-
ments as of January 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues of
regional disparities and unemployment;
1/   Identical to Part II of the President's Report for the Ninth Highway
Project (Report No. P-2188-YU) of March 8, 1978.



- 8 -
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives
nor always be directly oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the basic
thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been towards
the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs-through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability to
maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubtedly
be year to year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the devel-
opment of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending,
as noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as an



- 9 -
upcoming proposed third industrial credit project, as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for irrigation,
water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural
development, emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs.
The proposed loan for a Fifth Railway Project and another proposed loan for
a Ninth Highway Project as well as the Second Power Transmission Project
approved in 1977, will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in
the transport and energy sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia and the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively), have given special attention
to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosopohy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.



- 10 -
But, the Bank sees it important to continue exerting its influence in shaping
the policy framework and having further beneficial impact on fostering coordi-
nation, particularly, in the power and transport sectors where significant
progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway Project
(Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of road-user
charges and railway costs which the Government and we, believe essential for
developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework for the
transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No. 1469-YU
approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmission
system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will enable the
supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power exchange
coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of further progress
in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in sector coor-
dination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (including the European Investment
Bank), there is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The
Bank, therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
only constitutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have, and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current: level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in 1976 and is projected
to increase to about 5 percent by 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA I/
A.   The Transport System
29.       The transport system in Yugoslavia was historically shaped by topo-
graphy and the rate of development of the various Republics and Provinces.
The main routes of communication ran Northwest to Southeast, along the Sava-
Danube Valley, serving the rich agricultural areas and providing access to
1/ Parts A and B (paras 29-38) are identical to the correspondling parts of
the Ninth Highway Project (Report No. P-2188-YU) of March 8, 1978.



- 11 -
the Balkan countries to the North and East. The mountains, however, remained
a barrier to easy access to the Adriatic Coast which has been the traditional
sea access for several central European countries.
30.       Following  the considerable reconstruction required to repair the
ravages of World War II, Yugoslavia has engaged in a major development program
in the transport sector oriented towards opening up the less developed regions
to strengthen their integration with the rest of the country; improving com-
munication with Western Europe and encouraging the development of international
tourism.
31.       Today, Yugoslavia's transportation system is extensive and diversi-
fied, comprising about 10,000 km of railways, 100,000 km of roads, seven main
ports and 15 airports (ten of which handle international flights) and a size-
able network of inland and coastal waterways (the main one being the Danube).
Pipelines have come into increasing use in recent years. Yugoslavia borders
seven countries (map) and has extensive access to the Adriatic; it is thus an
important crossroads for European traffic, including considerably increased
traffic to the Middle East.
32.       Yugoslavia's economy has grown rapidly since World War II with per
capita income rising in real terms at about 6 percent yearly during the last
decade to reach US$1,680 in 1976. Increasing economic activity and personal
incomes (combined with continued diversification of the economy) have led
to a fairly rapid growth in transport demand; between 1965 and 1975 freight
and passenger traffic, for all modes of transport, grew at about 6.5 percent
and 12.5 percent yearly.
33.       The growth of traffic by different modes has been rather uneven.
Between 1965 and 1975 the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by
about 2 percent per annum compared to 13 percent on highways, while passenger
traffic on railways declined by about 2 percent per annum, and increased by
29 percent per annum on highways. The development of highway traffic is also
demonstrated by the increase in the motor vehicle fleet and modernization
of the highway network. As a result, road transport has replaced rail trans-
port as the dominant carrier. The railways however, continue to be the main
carrier of bulk materials important for key industries, and carry about 40 per-
cent of total freight. The railways share of public passenger transport is
24 percent. River transport has retained an important and competitive place,
carrying about 10 percent of total freight traffic. The ports have almost
doubled their cargo handling since the early 1960s and currently move about
20 million tons per annum.
34.       During the early 1960s transport facilities developed more slowly
than other sectors in the economy and accounted for only about 10-11 percent
of total investment, one of the lowest in Europe. The position has improved
and transport has accounted for about 16-18 percent of the total investments
since 1970, but in view of the considerable gaps in the transport infrastruc-
ture, the resources devoted to the sector appear to have been insufficient
and much remains to be done. For example, many roads are still below standard
for the traffic they carry, needing improvements to handle traffic efficiently
and economically, and modernization of railways is also a pressing need.
Concerning the latter, Government support measures should be paralleled by



- 12 -
improved utilization of railway capacity and continued extensive marketing and
promotional efforts. Also the capacity of some ports needs to be increased.
B.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
35.       Since the mid-1960s the Yugoslav system has been increasingly char-
acterized by decentralization of decision making with enterprises operating
under workers' self-management in a market oriented economy. Principal gov-
ernmental responsibility for transport was transferred during the late 1960s
from Federal to Republican and Provincial authorities. The Federal Secretariat
for Transport was replaced in 1975 by a Federal Committee, whose Chairman and
Vice Chairman are Federal officials, and other members are the Republican and
Provincial officials responsible for transport. This committee has a largely
coordinating function. Much of governmental responsibility is now being trans-
ferred to Communities of Interest (COIs), which consist of one or more trans-
port enterprises and their users; normally, a COI covers only one Republic or
Province. Transport enterprises, including the railways, are generally
constituted as associations of Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs),
each consisting typically of a few hundred workers. The BOALs are the prime
sources of authority in the enterprise, and enjoy a large measure of autonomy.
36.       The extension of autonomy to the "grass roots" agencies and trans-
port organizations has increased the number of decision making bodies, and
made the country-wide transport planning and coordination within and between
modes (especially between road and rail) more difficult. Until recently
there has not existed an overall, clearly stated transport policy, although
the basic rationale for such a policy has been implicit in the country's main
economic principles: free choice by users and competition in a market economy
among autonomous transport enterprises. In late 1976, however, with a view to
creating the necessary conditions for integrated development of transport, the
Federation, the Republics and the Autonomous Provinces mutually agreed to
establish a long-term transport policy for the country. Considerable progress
has been made in this direction, and the authorities are concluding Social
Agreements on the various aspects of future transport policy. Much of the
success in translating the transport policy into a concrete action program
will depend on the decentralized decision making process.
37.       The Yugoslav authorities are also acutely aware of the need for a
satisfactory institutional framework within which various transport agencies
and enterprises can collaborate effectively. The Bank has contributed to
institution-building policies resulting in:
(i) the establishment of the Federal Committee (originally a
Secretariat) for Tranport and Communications;
(ii) the establishment of the Secretariats or Committees for
Transport in most Republics and Provinces;
(iii) the establishment of the Council of Republican and Provincial
Roads Organization (CRO); and
(iv) strengthening the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR).



- 13 -
38.       Further improvements are still needed and for this purpose, a
Social Agreement on Transport Policy has been signed, setting out the general
objectives of Yugoslav transport policy, indicating measures to be taken
to achieve them and delineating more clearly the responsibilities of the
Federal, Republican and Provincial Governments and the COIs in the transport
sector. Objectives include the setting up of an optimal structure for the
transport system by harmonizing the development of the various transport
modes, the lowering of the share of transportation costs in the total costs of
the economy, and the rationalization of energy use and the reduction of energy
imports. The use of rail and water transport is to be encouraged for long-
and medium- distance commodity hauls and of road transport for short hauls.
The development of integrated transport facilities is also to be encouraged.
Emphasis is placed on the development of the public transportation sector as
compared to transport on own account. Regulations regarding permitted speeds,
axle loadings and capacities for highways generally are also to be re-examined.
The basic principle of the transport policy will continue to be free competi-
tion on the market and the main policy instruments will be pricing measures
and the imposition of minimum safety and environmental standards. For this
reason, and to promote transport coordination more effectively, the need is
becoming increasingly pressing for studies on road user charges and on railway
costs to ascertain and eventually eliminate, overt and hidden subsidies or
cross-subsidies. Such studies of road user charges and a corresponding study
of rail costs were in fact included as a component of the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan 1377-YU of March 15, 1977). Likely completion dates for these
studies are end-1978 and mid-1979 respectively.
C.   The Railway Sub-Sector
Organization
39.       Railway organization reflects Yugoslavia's socio-economic system.
The Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR) is an agency of the separate and
independent railway enterprises. Until the end of 1977 it comprised five
Railway Transport Enterprises (RTEs), each serving a Socialist Republic (SR)
and named after its capital city.
40.       Exceptionally, RTE Belgrade, the largest, served the SRs of Serbia
and Montenegro and the Socialist Autonomous Provinces (SAPs) of Kosovo and
Vojvodina. However, as from March 1978 RTE Belgrade will cease to exist
and will be replaced by four independent Railway Transport Organizations
(RTOs), each serving a Republic or Province, which will function in the same
manner as the RTEs and be associated with them, on an equal basis, in CYR.
41.       Three-quarters of traffic is interenterprise, so that operations
are highly interdependent. CYR, deriving its functions from the independent
RTEs, serves as a forum for common decisions and as an executing agency for
joint operations (for example, timetables, wagon utilization, revenue distri-
bution, planning methodology, and inputs to Government planning). It also
represents RTEs at Federal and international levels and sets safety and
technical standards.



- 14 -
42.       CYR's role diminished during the earlier part of the decentraliza-
tion process but since about 1974, with Bank support, it has been made more
active, particularly in planning and in discussions at the Federal level, of
tariff increases and governmental support to all RTEs. During the preparation
of the Fourth Railway Project the RTEs concluded a self-management agreement
enabling CYR to increase its planning, research and marketing activities, and
to define common objectives. The CYR has been particularly active in recent
Government discussions on transport policies, and is fulfilling a useful
planning and coordinating function. Its functions will continue to develop
during the implementation of this project; for example it will assist the
newly created RTOs in the preparation of individual investment plans which
will aggregate those of the former RTE Belgrade.
43.       Each RTE is organized as an association of Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor, (BOALs). Internal organization is complex and varies be-
tween RTEs, but, broadly, each RTE has a director-general and three to five
assistant directors, and each RTE and BOAL has a workers' council to which
management is responsible. BOALs providing central services cover marketing,
finance, planning, major investments and personnel, while those responsible
for operations cover traffic, maintenance and subsidiary activities. BOALs
engaged on purely railway transport functions, must by law, join together in
the RTE, but the adherence of BOALs covering activities only partly related to
the railways, is voluntary.
44.       Management and decision making are complex processes writh extensive
interactions between management and workers' councils. Management, which has
always been technically competent in traditional railway disciplines, has
been strengthened substantially on planning and marketing during the last
few years, but further progress, especially in the evaluation of investments,
is needed in some RTEs.
45.       Traditionally, responsibility for executing investments had been
dispersed among specialized BOALs, whose activities had been coordinated by
central service departments. To increase the effectiveness of project manage-
ment under the fourth project, the RTEs grouped certain interdependent works
(such as electrification, signaling and track overhaul on a section of line)
into projects, with an officer appointed for each, responsible for execution
in accordance with specifications within budget and time schedules. Although
the RTEs were short of suitable staff, this type of project management gave
satisfactory results, and the RTEs have undertaken to extend it to certain
works included in the proposed project (Section 4.08 of subsidiary Agreements).
Recent Legislation and Communities of Interest (COIs)
46.       In June 1977, the Social Agreement on "Economic and Other Measures
for Providing Normal Economic Conditions for the Railways" (SAE) was signed
by the Federal, Republican and Provincial Governments.
47.       SAE is designed to provide a sound economic and financial environ-
ment for the railways. Its most important provision concerns compensation pay-
ments which are to provide railways with the necessary liquidity. They are to



- 15 -
be fixed a year in advance, thus enabling forward planning and financial dis-
cipline. The basic principle for compensation payments is of a payment per
traffic unit, based on planned traffic levels, to yield, together with other
revenues, revenue sufficient to cover operating expenses and interest on debt.
The scheme includes provision for adjustments of the rate, upwards or down-
wards, against easily monitored operational efficiency indicators.
48.       The mechanism for providing these payments remains to be worked out
by the authorities in individual Republics and Provinces. In some, the funds,
specifically identified as being for railways, will be levied by the respective
government against economic organizations; in others, as at present in Slovenia,
funds may be raised by a levy on its members by the COI.
49.       COIs are a means of bringing together an RTE and its users to ensure
that the planning, development and operations of the RTE are properly respon-
sive to the needs of the economy and so that economic organizations and parti-
cularly the major rail users, understand, and play a part in solving, financial
and other problems which face the railways. All economic organizations which
benefit either directly or indirectly from rail transport are eligible for
membership of the COI. COIs have already been formed in five Republics and
Provinces and are being formed in the other three. In Slovenia monthly compen-
sation payments, as provided by SAE, are being made by the COI to the RTE,
while in Croatia all economic organizations are members of the COI and are
paying a special government levy to fund railway compensation payments.
Detailed arrangements for funding and administering compensation payments
are being worked out in the other Republics and Provinces.
50.       The existing COIs, as may be expected, are already exerting a strong
influence towards improved efficiency of the railways and the formulation of
their operational and development plans. This financial involvement of the
COIs is expected to provide the incentive required to reduce railway needs for
financial support and to reach the Government target of ensuring that by 1980
not less than 85 percent of railway revenues will be derived from tariffs.
Uneconomic Lines
51.       A methodology for the identification of uneconomic lines has been
established by CYR and is to be applied in all SRs and SAPs. Some 1,900 km of
uneconomic lines have been closed since 1965, including 550 km in the last two
years, and a further 1,400 km have been identified by RTEs Belgrade, Ljubljana
and Sarajevo and will be reviewed for closure in the course of the next two
years, although about 160 km of line may become private sidings (Section 4.03
of Loan Agreement).
Staffing
52.       In the decade ending in 1975 railway staff was reduced by some 17,000
(about 15 percent). However, since then the imposition of more stringent
medical standards and restrictions on overtime for reasons of safety and the
difficulty of discharging redundant staff during the economic slowdown has
reduced the rate of decrease. The railways have agreed, as part of their



- 16 -
Action Plans, to adopt manpower plans including staffing and productivity
targets which should result in reducing staff by about 5 percent by 1980
(Section 4.04, Loan Agreement).
Performance Under Previous Railway Projects
53.       As was stated in the report and recommendation of the President to
the Executive Directors (Report No. P-1411a-YU of June 20, 1974) on the Fourth
Railway Project, our experience with the railway loan for the 1964 moderniza-
tion program was marked by major delays and cost overruns, largely due to
shortfalls in internally-generated funds, the deterioration in the competitive
position of the railways vis-a-vis road transport and the breakdown in coordi-
nation between the various Federal and Regional authorities concerned, which
compounded the inherent difficulties of sector-wide planning, financing and
implementation. Hence, the Bank's Fourth Railway Project financed by Loan No.
1026-YU of 10 July 1974 had, as its major objective, the introduction of
Action Plans agreed with all responsible parties to promote coordination and
efficient systems of management and operations. Additionally, major emphasis
was placed on financial viability and firm commitments were obtained with a
view to ensuring improvements in both operational performance and liquidity.
54.       The results have been mixed.  The introduction of coordination
machinery to improve planning and implementation has clearly demonstrated its
efficacy. This improvement has become a part of railway management and plan-
ning and has paid dividends in terms of ensuring the physical implementation
of the Fourth Railway Project as well as in the preparation of a national
1976-80 investment program. Project investments against which the Bank loan
is being disbursed are about three-quarters completed, and the works in all
the five then existing RTEs are expected to be largely completed by the end
of 1978, about two years behind schedule.
55.       On the financial, side however, events that transpired shortly after
the commitment of the fourth railway loan frustrated the achievement of the
objective as envisaged. The sharp rise in energy prices followed by the
recession in Western Europe and international inflation, further compounded
by sharp domestic inflation in Yugoslavia, forced the Government to introduce
stiff measures to contain inflation. While these measures were, indeed,
successful in containing inflation, they did, as part of an overall national
policy package, involve withholding the necessary tariff increases for the
railways. The financial impact of tariffs not keeping pace with inflation
was further aggravated by the general economic recession which led to stagna-
tion and decline of railway traffic. All these factors led to a deteriora-
tion in the financial position of the railways. This issue has been the
subject of intensive discussions between the Bank and the Government for over
two years. The Government has consistently maintained that, against the
background of the national effort to contain inflation, the fall in traffic
and the fact that increases in rail tariffs may have further exacerbated the
railways competitive position vis-a-vis the roads, it would be imprudent to
permit major tariff increases. This does not mean that there was any waver-
ing in the Government's commitments to seek the ultimate financial viability
of the railways and, to that end, the Government has now drawn up a specific



- 17 -
action program which has been extensively discussed as part of the appraisal
for the proposed project and which is detailed in the subsequent sections of
this report.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.       The proposed project, which is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of the report and described in detail in the report
"Appraisal of a Fifth Railway Project" number 1740-YU dated March 10 1978
was appraised by missions which visited Yugoslavia in November 1976 and May
and October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington during the first half
of January 1978. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. N. Filipovic, General
Manager of CYR and included representatives of the Federal Secretariat of
Finance, the Federal Committee for Transport and Communications, CYR and each
of the RTEs.
The Project
57.       The principal objective of the Railways' 1976-80 Investment Plan is
the modernization of facilities to improve the efficiency and the competitive
position of the railways. The total cost of the Plan is estimated to be $2.7
billion, including contingencies of $0.5 billion. The proposed Bank project
would consist of the 1978-80 slice of the Investment Plan estimated to cost
about $2.0 billion, including contingencies, with an estimated foreign exchange
component of $0.8 billion. Seventy-six percent of Project investments would
be for infrastructure, 24 percent for traction and rolling stock.
58.       The Investment Plan is an aggregate of the Investment Plans of the
separate RTEs, which were reduced by about one third during the course of dis-
cussions with the Yugoslav authorities; about two-thirds of the investments
are replacements. Upon the recommendation of the Bank, the Plans have been
divided into two parts: Part A, consisting of investments to proceed as
scheduled and Part B, the execution of which will depend on availability of
adequate financial and physical resources, and, if appropriate, additional
evidence of economic viability. Part B investments average by cost 15% of the
Plan and 19% of the Project. They, and possibly the completion of some Part A
investments, may be postponed by about two years, but this would not signif-
icantly affect the benefits of the Project.
59.       Agreement has been reached with RTEs on consultation with the Bank
and procedures to be followed in respect of modifications to the Investment
Plans and for transferring investments from Part B to Part A (Section 3.08,
Loan Agreement).
60.       The principal components and estimated costs, including physical
and price contingencies, of the Project are the overhaul of 1,600 km of track
($441 million); station and track reconstruction ($347 million); modernization
of signalling and telecommunication ($286 million); purchase of traction and
rolling stock ($471 million).



- 18 -
61.       Except for $0.5 million allocated for technical assistance and staff
training, the proposed Bank loan would be allocated to investments consisting
of the overhaul of about 1,000 km of track, the reconstruction of about 50 km
and equipment for the electrification of about 200 km. These are high priority
Part A investments for which other loans are not readily available. The pro-
posed loan would finance only about 5 percent of total project costs but would
represent about 32 percent of the cost of specific investments to which it is
allocated.
Cost Estimates
62.       Cost estimates are regarded as satisfactory being based on recent
experience and quotations on similar works in Yugoslavia, confirmed, in some
cases, by consultants.
63.       Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included for all
items except those with a particularly firm limit on quantities, notably trac-
tion and rolling stock. Estimates for the Investment Plan as a whole were
based on mid-1975 prices updated to mid-1977 with 10 percent price contingen-
cies added for each later year. This is acceptable. However, for calculating
the loan amount, price contingencies of 7 percent were applied to track
materials and 8 percent to electrification equipment and materials for 1978
and subsequent years.
Financing Plans
64.       Under the terms of the Social Agreement for Railway Development the
Republican and Provincial Governments have undertaken to make available the
finance required for the 1976-80 Investment Plans. Funds firmly identified
as yet cover about 90 percent of Plan and Project costs for CYR as a whole,
but the percentages vary in different RTEs. Together with the proposed Bank
loan of US$100 million, the proportion of identified finance for the project
rises to 95 percent, more than sufficient to cover Part A investments in all
RTEs. Internal funds are expected to finance an increasing proportion of the
Project, rising from 24 percent in 1978 to 40 percent in 1980 and averaging 31
percent over the Project period.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Except for the $0.5 million of the proposed loan that would finance
the full cost of technical assistance and staff training, all contracts will
be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, with domestic producers being accorded a preference of 15 per-
cent or the customs duty, whichever is the lower. In order to maximize the
benefits of ICB, bidders will have the opportunity to quote on only some
types and for less than full quantities of track materials.
66.       In view of present world market conditions which currently reflect
substantial over-capacity for the production of rails and relatesd materials,
it is not possible to assess the extent to which Yugoslav manufacturers are
likely to be successful under ICB procedures. However, even if they were



- 19 -
to succeed in winning all these contracts the proposed Bank loan would still
represent only a small percentage of the total foreign exchange cost of the
project, and would also be less than the foreign exchange component of the
investments to which it is allocated.
67.       The loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the CIF cost of
imported or ex-factory cost of locally produced steel materials estimated at
$92.5 million, (about 104,000 tons of rails, 38,000 track fastenings and 650
points), and 45 percent of the cost of electrification equipment and materials,
estimated at $7.0 million.
Lending Arrangements
68.       The proposed loan would be made to CYR for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace and would be guaranteed by the Federal Government.
Under Subsidiary Agreements, with terms and conditions similar to those of the
Loan Agreement, $99.5 million of the loan would be transferred to the four
RTEs and four RTOs. The remaining $0.5 million would be allocated to CYR for
technical assistance and training but could be subsequently transferred to
RTEs and RTOs as necessary. The allocation between RTEs would be as follows:
US$ Million
Sarajevo RTE                                 18.5
Zagreb RTE                                   16.7
Belgrade RTO                                  13.6
Ljubljana RTE                                 13.4
Novi Sad RTO                                  13.2
Skopje RTE                                   10.6
Pristina RTO                                  9.0
Titograd RTO                                  4.5
The execution, ratification and coming into full effect of all Agreements
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Implementation
69.       Each RTE would be responsible for executing its part of the project.
CYR would be responsible for administration of the loan and the technical
assistance and training elements. The CYR panel established for administering
the fourth project will be strengthened and consultants for technical assis-
tance and staff training will be employed in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Action Plans
70.       Railway decisions may involve, besides each RTE and its BOALs and
COI, the Federal and Regional Governments as well as organizations such as the
Chambers of Economy. This led, under the fourth project, to the establishment
by CYR and by each RTE of comprehensive Action Plans which are an important
instrument for reaching a common understanding by all concerned on objectives



- 20 -
and responsibilities, and on the measures and time required for their achieve-
ment. Action Plans are also important for extending the planning process in
the RTEs and beyond. They address themselves to improvements in organization,
planning, investments, marketing, productivity, information systems, finance,
Government support and staff training. They specify actions to be taken
to achieve productivity, operational and financial targets. Appropriately
updated, these Action Plans have a continuing role in the development of the
Yugoslav railway system. Assurances have been obtained that CYR and the
RTEs will continue to implement and update their Action Plans, under suitable
monitoring systems, and that the capabilities of CYR will be developed
to enable it to contribute to the application of the results of the costing
study and further assist RTEs in technical/economic analysis, (Section 3.06
of Loan Agreement).
71.       As part of their Action Plans, the RTEs have prepared Operational
Plans to improve the utilization of their assets and to serve as a basis
for procurement, renewal and scrapping of equipment including traction,
rolling stock, workshops, signaling, telecommunications and data processing.
Assurances have been obtained (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement) that the RTEs
and RTOs will:
(a) continue to update and implement their Operational Plans in
collaboration with CYR, and use their best efforts to reach
agreed targets;
(b) elaborate, in particular, the Operational Plans on signal-
ing and telecommunications with technical assistance on the
basis of terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Accounts and Finance
72.       Railway accounts are kept separately by each RTE on a uniform
Government-prescribed basis, to good standards, with automatic data processing
used to varying extents by the different RTEs. As a result of the Bank's
advice, cash flow techniques are playing an increasingly important role in
the accounting processes.
73.       The importance of depreciation to the railways in ensuring an
adequate generation of internal funds was recognized by the Government which,
in 1974, passed a law increasing depreciation rates for the various categories
of railway fixed assets. Fixed assets are subject to an annual revaluation
based on replacement costs and using coefficients obtained from price indices
of the Federal Institute of Statistics. Book values of assets are thus
maintained at realistic levels and depreciation plays a proper role in funds
generation.
74.       Financial results show a poor record of achievement when compared
to the appraisal forecasts made for the last three loans. Forecast surpluses
have not been achieved because traffic forecasts have not been realized and
also because freight rates and passenger fares have failed to keep up with
inflation (see para. 55).



- 21 -
75.       Rising costs and inadequate tariff increases with a consequent need
for Government subsidies have been a feature of railway finances in recent
years. In 1974 operating costs per traffic unit rose by nearly 30 percent and
a deficit of about US$60 million resulted. An attempt was made to remedy this
position by tariff increases of 21.8 percent in June 1974 and 22 percent in
January 1975 but declining traffic and further inflation caused a 32 percent
increase in operating costs per traffic unit in 1975 and a deficit of almost
US$120 million. A rigorous anti-inflation policy introduced by the Federal
Government with strict controls over prices brought a temporary halt to the
railways' efforts to seek viability through tariffs, and subsequent tariff
increases were limited to 8 percent in January 1976 and 8.5 percent in April
1977. The deficit for 1976, before subsidies, reached US$255 million of which
about US$50 million was due to uneconomic lines and surplus staff. The Bank
strongly urged a reversal of this policy of subsidization and a return to
viability through tariffs.
76.       Under the terms of the SAE (paragraph 47) the Federal, Republican
and Provincial Governments have agreed to "adjust freight rates in accordance
with pricing policy in the current year" and assurances have been obtained
(Section 4.02(b) of Loan Agreement) that the railways will take all action
in their power to obtain annual tariff increases to compensate for inflation
during the previous twelve month period. Tariff increases to cover inflation
in 1977 were approved and put into effect in March 1978. In addition, the
viability and liquidity of the railways will be restored through the provision
of compensation payments, paid currently, and derived from levies on the COIs
and economic enterprises (paras. 48-50). These levies, to be based on annual
plans to be agreed by COIs, will be traffic-related and rates of payment will
be adjusted up or down according to operational efficiency indicators, thus
providing a strong incentive toward increased efficiency. It is the intention
of Government that these payments will be gradually reduced and tariff revenues
are forecast to comprise 79, 82 and 85 percent respectively of total revenues
in 1978, 1979 and 1980 while the longer range forecast for 1982 is for 90 per-
cent. Undertakings have been received that RTEs will use their best efforts
to ensure that tariff revenues are not less than 85 percent of total revenues
by 1980. At present, railway plans, in line with those of the Federal Govern-
ment, do not extend beyond 1980. It has therefore been agreed that in 1979
the Yugoslav authorities will review with the Bank their proposals for imple-
mentation of their stated intent to progressively reduce and ultimately
eliminate compensation payments after 1980 (see Section 5.05 of Loan
Agreement).
77.       The Management of the railways is good, comparing satisfactorily
with other European railways. However, there remains room for improvement
through the continued and expanded use of planning and marketing techniques
recognized and accepted by the Government and the railways. In this connec-
tion annual targets for the improvement of operating and working capital
ratios and rate of return on net fixed assets in operation have been agreed
(Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement). CYR and the RTEs have undertaken to use
their best efforts to achieve these targets. This approach fully reflects
the spirit and intent of the continuous dialogue which has been conducted
over the last several years between the Government, the railways and the Bank.



- 22 -
Audit
78.       The accounts of each RTE are subject to audit by the Social Account-
ing Service (SAS) and audit certificates, appropriate to the basic work carried
out by the SAS, were received for 1974, 1975 and 1976. SAS, with the help of
consultants, is currently expanding its capacity and it has been agreed that CYR
and the RTEs will have their accounts audited, in accordance with normal Bank
procedures, by the SAS or other competent and experienced independent auditing
organization satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.02 of Loan Agreement).
Economic Justification
79.       Yugoslavia's economic priorities have been recently modified as a
result of the shift over the past few years in international commodity prices.
Increased emphasis is now being given to the development of Yugoslavia's own
natural resources including energy (coal), at the expense of transforming
industries which in the past received higher priority. The National 1976-80
Development Plan has been formulated on the basis of these revised objectives.
Relatively high growth rates, about 8 percent p.a., are envisaged within
mining, power generation and a number of other basic, heavy industries, com-
pared with an overall growth rate of 7 percent p.a. for the economy as a
whole.
80.       This shift in economic priorities will result in increased transport
requirements of heavy and bulky raw materials and semi-finished products suit-
able for rail transport, although increased efforts are being made to locate
processing and energy-generating industries at raw material sources. The
evaluation of interindustry linkages undertaken by the Federal Institute of
Social Planning for preparation of the 1976-80 plan indicates that the railway
investment programs will remain closely related to the transport needs of high
priority industries. This has been taken into account in preparation of the
1976-80 plan and in drawing up the national transport policy (para. 36).
Furthermore, following the increase in energy prices and the greater emphasis
being given to safety and environmental considerations the Government has
given the railways higher priority than in the past.
81.       Parallel to the overall economic growth objectives, the reduction
in interregional disparities in development levels and generation of employ-
ment opportunities assume high priority in the 1976-80 Plan. Considerable
emphasis is therefore, being given to the development of the less developed
republics and Kosovo, which are expected to obtain higher than average growth
rates. Much of this growth is to be achieved through expansion of the basic
industries generating substantial rail transport requirements.
82.       The combined freight/passenger traffic growth is realistically
expected to be 4.6 percent per annum during 1976-80 based upon the depressed
1976 level. Results for the first three quarters of 1977 are encouraging,
being 8.3 percent above the corresponding 1976 period.



- 23 -
83.       The 1976-80 Investment Plan is realistic, the more so following its
division into Parts A and B (para. 58). It is based on Action and Operational
Plans and feasibility studies introduced largely as a result of the institution-
building efforts of the fourth project which will be continued.
84.       The Yugoslav railways have estimated the economic rate of return for
the Investment Plan as a whole at 15 percent. This is realistic particularly
since only direct cost savings were taken into account in respect of the
capital overhaul and reconstruction of lines and stations, accounting for
about 40 percent of the Plan. There are no significant differences in type or
priority of investments to be undertaken during the Plan (1976-80) and project
(1978-80) periods and the economic rate of return on project investments is
also estimated at 15 percent.
85.       The sensitivity of the rate of return is greatest in respect of
changes in traffic growth and increase in costs. In view of the encouraging
traffic results in 1977 (para. 82), the provisions of the recent Social Agree-
ments (paras. 46 and 47) and the ability to adjust investments under the rol-
ling system of planning (para. 59) the risks that the rate of return will be
significantly less than forecast are minimized.
86.       Additional, unquantifiable benefits will also be derived from the
continuing institution building, technical assistance and training inputs
which will be expanded under the proposed project. It may also be expected
that pressures from the COIs whose members will be the main source of funds
for the monthly compensation payments to railways, will increase the railways
sensitivities to the need for closer attention to operating economies and
improved management techniques.
Risks
87.       In light of what was stated regarding the performance under the pre-
vious railway projects (para. 53-55) it is recognized and accepted that the
continuing aim of ensuring the financial viability of the railways might again
prove difficult to attain. We do, however, have considerable grounds for
optimism, not the least being the Government's own firm commitment towards
achieving that goal. The formation of the COIs is an additional reason for
confidence, inasmuch as they, as users of the railway, are not only concerned
with the costs of services but also the quality of services.  There is built
in pressure for them to become vigilant overseers of railway operations trying
to ensure that the railways work as efficiently as possible and provide the
quality and quantity of service desired.  Insofar as railway levies pose a
burden on them, they would also wish to ensure that the tariff structure is
appropriate.
88.       Insofar as physical implementation and continued improvements in
planning and operations are concerned, past experience, as well as the quality
of management that is available, do not suggest the presence of any signif-
icant risks.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Community of Yugoslav Railways
and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
the draft resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately, together with the draft subsidiary agreements
between the CYR and each RTE which have been agreed with the parties concerned.
90.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III of this
Report. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 7.01) are:
(a) Approval of Investment, Financing and Action (including
Operational) Plans by CYR, RTEs and authorities concerned
and their transmittal to the Bank (Section 7.01(b) and
(c) of Loan Agreement).
(b) Undertakings by Republics and Provinces to make available
to their respective enterprises funds required to complete
financing of respective investments against which Loan
proceeds will be disbursed (Section 7.01(d), Loan Agreement).
91.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
92.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 10, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                             ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND  AREA    (THOU   KM2)            ---------------               ----- --- ---
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                             YUGOSLAVIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL  255.8                             ~~~~~~~MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANIA        SPAIN          GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     380.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 */a              550.0 /a  1580.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            18.4       20.4      21.5 /a             20.3        33.6        61.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        72.0      80.0       84.0  a             85.0        67.0       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.0     139.0      149.0  a            136.0       105.       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          26.8      21.0       18.2                19.0        21.0        17.3
CRUDE DEATH [.,TE (/THoU,AV)          11.5        9.1       9.2                 8.9         8.8        11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        88.0       55.5       40.5                49.4        27.9       i23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       63.7       67.7       68.0                67.7        70.5        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4        1.3        1.3                1.3         1.4         1.2
POPULYTION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                  1.2        1.0       0.9                 1.0         1.1         1.0
URBAN                                  6.0        4.6        ..                 3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION Cx OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7      39.0 /b             40.8        59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7      28.3       26.3                25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       63.2       64.3       65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      6.1        7.4       8.3                 8.6         9.7        13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6       0.5                 0.5         0.6         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         ..       0.8 /c              0.7 /b      I.l         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                       ..             ..                         .           ..
USEkR  (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          8300.0         .      9150.Q'd           9900.0    11900.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)          57.0         ..        39.e              49.0        25.0         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0         ..           .                           1-1.1 /     0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.4 /a   15.1 .1.                         .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.5 T    41.4         ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9       6.6         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.0      13.4         *-
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS (l)        15.1**    15.1**    15.1**
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(TI)   84.9**    84.9**    84.9**
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1400.0 IblOlO.0        850.0               680.0       740.0 /b   580.0
POPULATION PER NUR.ING PERSON        1350.0  Lb 410.0       450.0               200.0          ..       350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            200.0      170.0      170.0              140.0 /C   220.0         90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         115.0      124.0    137.0                118.0       107.0       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               91.0      92.0       97.5                92.0        81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.0      29.0       35.4                28.0        40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.5        2.6        1.7                2.4          0.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0       94.0      96.0 /R            113.0       123.0       129.o/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      34.0       45.0      49.0 j              44.0        57.0        66.0 T
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0      12.0              12-13         11.0        1S.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      72.0      72.0       74.0   .            58.0        20.o        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 77.0       85.0         ..                            94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PL'. ROOM (URBAN)                1.7         ..        1.3/b               1.3 /d                  O 0.7/b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER ()                          ..         ..      61.5                88.0 /d,e    ..           0.3/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  54.5         ..      89.2/a              49.0 /d        *        100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    36.1          .       80.1/b             27.0 /d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          85.0     163.0      193.0                152.0       214.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       35.0      72.0                   *-        71.o       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           480.0    1288.0   1887.0                 1815.0      1634.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        4.3                            2 6         5.8        17.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNREX
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
unl-s atar      -enntd, data  f-r 19h,0 ref-  to any year betwee   1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee   1968 sod 1970, and for Moat Recet Estimate  betwee
1973 and 1975.
(p po-  capita data at  bsnnd  n the World Band Atian nethadology (1974-lb basis).
o r. ApoicuItore  land hlbId by  -oisi sector  (Kosbieate).
no II  Aprlcittelnd he,ld by prirate   nl-odr                     Ihetpamgao9
ca  rroIro  Fe,deral  Ropbhlo  of  Crnany as a  objetion cosot     is base..d on 1bn-oa   eroaic  tire  -atocaind by the two conries  as weI
ss  the  fat  obt tbe,h  grete   part of Cao cs     .roud on                .ilin   nkers  topo-raily abroad   a-r 'Wand etpl,yntnt In teFederal
Rep,I ic of ZernanY.
Yf)COSIVCA                   1960      /0  19b3;       /b   1962.
MOST RECENT ESTE-MOTE:         s   1976;      /b   1971;      /c  Ratio  of Poy1cio-  under 15 sod 55 and over to  1tota  lator  force,
Id  Ino1oding shoot 811 th-nend vigrant wockera   -kria0  -a.ide;                   In  1975.  sra io f
attire resident la,bor fence;          /1  197r0-714 oea;            is 1972;         h I7 Insde orb.
197f     /a  Not canparable  to ths   froteCnrel   Pla-nned Icocoes-c.IPnned by  -aing the   :k   ' cai    tisevtho,dolIog~y,
by adjasting ofiia    onns  naioa   aost   date ed coveetiag then into US dollarsathe/oir
enoban.ge rate  for fore.ign trade transa-tias  hbiob aPP-ointee  Lei 2f par ui dollar;                      lb  Rnttin  of p,pnI.tII.
under IS and 65 sod ovr in total  labor Parce               /.  ticepita1e  only.   -olde-  saitoris andoreaytoe
/d  19 66;     /    Inaide only.
SPAIN                         19/0      Ea iplcyt,st offlte eationtec;             /b  Re9otee-d, act all  practicing in, the coutry.
ifEpMAlNY, Fpi.. gilt  OtF    19770     I   Icolode the relevant dote ralating an Berlin fur ouch  -eparat   data hove ot trot s-pplied ;    lb  /cal  o-bo-
rual   t'  a-ide only.
016, M-rch 2. 19/h
DEPFINITIOIJ  OP SOCIAL INICATORS
Land area Itbc  Me2)                                            Ponolarin pa rears teaenreon - PapolItos           divdd by eseber of pseitir la
Tasal - Tool surfso   area cnr isig land ape  ad inland  -stera.                             oassdfml  ga  asnrea    tand                       r "crtifie" otn,sa
neetly lot cr"pe,pttt,   urkha & hieche  grd-n  or to le  alow                                    hooltinpe  bsita1 bed - Papalualin  dEiided by ather of hospitl1 beds
avilable Ia poblla and Priosie geasta I  nd  pnialieed hospitl.  an.d
ONP per osrita  (401   - ti_p-prapt   a  aae   tcre:stapin                                             eaiisincnes   e   aear  s   bones. an  etalIlns fa
cotoulate   ho tone  onoertioraetbod soWorld lan   Atlas 1173-75 hai)- otdial sod pre-etivscs re.
1990;  9/f al 1T   data                                                                     Par capita  "polv of oslore    7'LI, resoiroeae 1-   tonp-td fron etee
and  ViL.L  .11ati-ic  ~ ~         ~           ~         ~          qooleaatot  ad  uplessataleI  cco ypeec  iaprdy
_apola tion  icd-,_, ci  jjioc,l     ~ tofsi tly fire: a if oat  -ci lable, ovrae/uges  in a-to"; an  coppltir  not lde antea   feed,  -rdo , qo-nitlet  -td
of twoend-yue eo tostet  Itho,197f sd 1975data,It fod prc...aIng and losae-  it distribstion; requirenet-  upo  e-i-std
.f   -    -d-y-  1160,  1970   rd  19?5  d.t..                             1,~~~b /70 ba..ed cc pbyeiolugic,sl enede for nu- a  activity  aed baa            o
populaton dencts - rt sbosr  lao -Mid-ver popolation peroar    aoee                         elgevr,sns  ten rtor',bod  segte   gead Iec
,Panclti_n dora,, Ic-rr          t anofsrb,. land - Cnpted at shon  for                             Per capita a-PP1o of prote in (gram   net day) - Protin content 0perc .pits
agritolsoral land cc/v.                                                oat supply  of foo~~~~I,:dt perda:y;. net. upplyo   foo-d is defined t   bo rqie
tar ull cotIra etalsbd by OSlo Ec_nonIc  ResearchhecIr
itta1 tistlstics                                                                                       pn...idelt aI nit         11-a-acno   of 60 geese of actall proteIn  Per day,a
Crude birth rtac  peralc   sd, avrg-aallo    inapttosn    i2   rn   fclslsd poIse    -tic,  of  htbif iron   thodhe_ha
eld-yer papa atlo; let-est _ith-teic-avetace- nod'iv  in 1960 sad 1970,                    p'rateic; ches      `tedrd   at   owe   .ta   -t       f 7ir one ci  -ca1 protin
sod Piapa ceeed ngi  19/5 for aces recent eatiete.                                                  sad 23 gr-,e  of anioa  proini  aso            -srge far the  -Ird, proposed by 'Al
Crd  dahraeor tbo...uvd,ongeona detspnhuadofl-er                                             it the Third World Food Sorvay
papalatin; tra-ysr uritlsnalo  acragee rdiagI  16  and1970 scd fIve--                 Pa-ir oPr t  nurels fruc oacIsd p.1-ee-Pr.t-in  -pply cf foud
Infant mortalt,sn1  bu   - --oca  de-h   of into-ta  under oc  yea  at ag                            sah  ae/th1 gs1-                     so   eteperd t              ihousand to age grop I-4
per   t..s..dlivebnh                                                                                y....  tocildren  in chit ape droop'  ogce;sa  idic_oro
Lif .en _ctnco at birch   ytal - -orrap   nooeeofyer  ofIlfe  reseinig `P tolcrlin
birth; uoly fine-ea_          gerpe   eading  In 1960, 1970 sad 1975 far develop-
irhe   ora  reproductIon  prrtodif the  _sp_ionce  pretenag -spt tflc                          ttu0   of pclc_I-  shool-age Polto;  i-lud-s ohildre- aged h-ti pa
Ierril ity rat -;ocull  fivce-pr avrages t-dlac  in 1960, 1970 and 1975                             bat sdjucrd tof      ifeetlapb    i  rae  education, tot  ounari- stab
tar d-ne lpiog cooatri-s.                                                                           nai_er_    edoosulon,nrlots ma   nae    O                   - lt  -  pu~pils ar  belsa
,osaio   rwh rate (P1 - total1   Conpoad encn   geowth rates of mid-year                      or above the offiofa1 school age,
paoaiefr1950-60l, 1960-70  n    97-9                                                      Adjosted auroloa   a   sssndr   so1-Cnaeda   he    eodr
Pseslation gr -th rate 1I.1 - urban   Consed liR    growt  r_n  oi total                               edsation reqsires st least Poor yeses af eppenved.piayl                    oia
popolati_n; difrntdfatit   o   r a                   a  osy pff..t  _wper-biliry of                  provides genera, voct.ional o  rteac hsers tiniag Ieuc bsfrppl
daaaamo.ngc  batisf 12 to17yers of age; uoeeodeeeoaa                                                                                                           re   eesly         ldd
Urta' eesstion 10 sftotal) -Ratio of cebse to total population; different                            Yeses of-shcol,  veaided Ifirt and second levls)- Tta  seaso
deinition    of trbaneacmy  fec -op-rbility of dat  so ...ng coane e,                                 uoig  at n-od.-  levelj, --cttnal1 tost-rociot may haprcal o
nesplere1l.y cociuZded
--ntocoy,,1prot) - ChIldren  10-14 vesta, -orking-sge   15-64 yv-r-l,                        Voosiona   _rorjllo-     0. uf -aerodaryf  - Vocationalluiicics1old
Ape dee2-de-o   t-tc        - R-atIo   f pcpclatlo- usder 11 sod 65 and over to ib-s                   dap-or-s  ci  -eod-to  iautIt tutu.
ci ape  IS~ throoph 64.                                                                             ducl.rc    ae/-     ce                  tt    .sh. r.t  .. ad ard ar-a u-        pt
the labor forc  In ag  .rop..        15-h4 ......
of bln-cc.......de-ic- coder soplon   of asiana1 family planning proptot                           Persons rtno          ba     -9roecocofPersona  per aeon in  tpe
F-iolyplaty-snsl,faclridwosc-crtc--n oastdoonocof                                                      a-c---e ,a'O  ou--Pirdpst
cbild-b-rinlcp   pe fib-h4 yers) ohA us   lrbi-oan__    d_ci_u  ia al  narnied rtoeedtypd dolonsciho  ppd  aerI)                                       - fcpi"d cocni     Ios-    oeliog
s-a    In s-ae  'go Stoop,                                                                           Itrb-o  and t-ta  area  a,i-  a ic-ide   rstI               ppdat   /cAle
aipret5    f all cacupied d-elliags,
Earloy-  ti Rcncoeetto/i  (ea   allI dwelII~ngs).r-Caoncionsi d-1llinus aitO
Toia1 labehr forc    (thousand) - Eoanonica11  sctoe. persoce: :incldingianad                           elorcicI  liclno  qtarters as P--et    if tots1 doe1ln-  In                      b -thnad
tI.... and sonpicyn-d itt enoluding ttse          -es   nd-aa  eta,; defial a                        rura  area
in o_ntoa    _ont,r toe  re0c   npaeabie                                                          isa   uligscnnndtoeneoc    (ii C-Cp-td a- shoot  on r-ra
Labor forte In spriculasre A71          grittult-e1 labo  foc (in farting,  oeer,                      d-eltings  ..I"
lenoploped  17, oP  Iao  ieefl  - leaped are tsaIly definda   arosao                                 Cotmio
ar  ai  ad  sIla   to take ,  ,ot of     fb sa a gisn de., remalod"`st                   Radio roe    per er nh,, eon) - A1  tPeso                     ..olor  ,rrdio,rads
ofalb kadsehagse   it          -pcified tli.usa Period no   --oding as                      topaI  olo   e   boado  popsisa t-o; erold-s oat an-sedce os
cee;  aynotheossprable btwtcon tries duet Icfdi%ffeeadfatosioo is  n   nyasae-eitaio    frdost   a   nefo
of  nnplyn   sd   orneofdaa,e..   -Ptoynen   tiitsaito,ssl                                 aaPerco    er   a  aa   ecnaal int    oaonrn    tls
sorveYs, c_npuc-ry uaonplot            i,nealosenae                                                   litiens bag,
casN      prthsne    Pa stale    aers              coaprc- actor osra  -eeiap
inton   distr.ibuto        -  erees-ge  of pei-as, ionce  (oath is cash and kind)                       lean thatngtpros   ecue    ntise   hssasdalar
reo-i-d by richest 50, ritbhst 20%,, poorest 207, sAnd pooret 40%/ of hos--vhcls
holds,                                                                    flea~~~~~~~~~I_trlitiv  (Whotvtpe   asl  rrua1  -onasption  of  adas-riat,    -rserci.i
psbltt and pet aia  s1:torlaity.le kilowata  boors Ipeisp , ge-e11ty
Distribauton of land aarsheei,P,-Pretsg-o  ci tad ownd by.. elahiesalI,                                 based on predsett-  data, he oI aloacioelse                       n grade hoc att1-
and p-cr-a  lOtoiladonrInlg far impoes andesrtoftecnic.
Nsawaeitst i111kal     perusal - Per  -pits a          -s - nopalinit inkilogeas,
gealth sod stuaritiss                                                                                   astiad  Peo  d-etfe  peod-tise plan  net imparts ot  -emprier
Peslto  prpyiIn          - Popsltaatn dinided by anber of pr-asiofeg
pyIa..s  apsifed Pros a  adita1 -ht-o   sa  ni-erilay lan-i,



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts In Million US Dollars)
Actual               Prelimlnary    Estimated
1972      1973     1974          1975            1976                1965-72       1972-75        1973-76         1972       1974       1976
NAIIONAL ACCOUNTS                          Constant 1974 Prices and EOsheoso Rate af Sl - 17.0 Dim.                  Av-r.an Annual Grovth Rates                   As Percent of GDY
Gross D-oestsc Product                       21,638  22,720   24,765         25,887          26,922                   5.6           6.2           5.8           97.8    100          99.3
GCins ftom Tea-s of Trade                       468      681       -           +142             +197                                                             2.2      -           0.7
Gross Domestic Inooe                         22,106  23,401   24,765         26,029           27,119                  5.5           5.6            5.0         100.0    100         100.0
Iopocts (incl. NFS)                           6,586    7,600    8,312         8,350           8,082                 12.6            8.2           2.1           29.7      33.6       29.8
Exports (sodc. DPS)                           5.437   5.788    5,694          5.872            6.506                  8.3           2.6           4.0           24.5      23.0       24.0
Ros.orce GCp                                  1,151   1,812    2,618          2,478            1,576
C-oasooption Expondit-ro                     16,139  17,716   19,953         19,795           19,670                  6.7           7.0           3.5           73.0      80.6       72.5
In-st-est Expenditrse                        6,650   4,816    7,429          8,370           8,827                  6.0            8.8           9.0           30.1      30.0       32.5
Nutionol nSvings                              6,904   6,806    6,241          7,330           8,717                   6.6           2.0           8.6           31.2      25.2       32.1
Dnoms.tic Saings                              5,499   5,006    4,812          6,092           7,252                   3.1           3.5          13.2           24.9      19.4       26.7
MERCPANDISE TRADE                                      A-aul Data at Cusrest Prices                                                                             As a Percentage af Total
Ciapits  Coods                                689   1,004    1,305          1,887           1,758                                                             21.3      17.4       23.9
Petroleum  sad Pools                          177      359       952          943           1,080                                                              1.5      12.6       14.6
Intermediate Good,                          1,859   2,450    4,291         4,109            3,618                                                             57.7      57.1       49.1
Consm-ption Goods                             502      698       972          758             911                                                             15.5      12.9       12.4
Total  oterh. Imports  (c.i.f.)             3,227   4,511    7,50           7,697           7100.0    109.0                                                                       100.0
Exports
Copital Goods                                 316      389       514          695              920                                                            14.1      13.5       18.8
T-tsile sad Lroth-r Goads                     362      409      477           600              761                                                            16.2      12.5       15.6
Non-f.ero-s MHtallrgy                         272      323       556          458             472                                                             12.2      14.6        8.7
Agricultural Products (in-l. food)            400     475       439           488             640                                                             17.9      11.5       13.1
Oth6r                                         887   1.255    1.819          1.831           2.085                                                             39.6     47.9       42.9
Total Mrech. Exports (f.o.b.)               2,237   2,853    3,805         4,072            4,878                                                           100.0    100.0        1U0.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                        1974 - 100
Export Price Indc                              63       76       100          109              114
Import Price Ioden                             58       68       100          105              109
Torms of Trade Inden                          109      112       100          104              105
Export Volume  Iaden                           93       99       100           98              112
VALUE ADDED BY SECT0R                        A-al Data in Co-stant 1974 Prices and Enchange Rate
of $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                             As a Percentage of Total
Agricolsarc                                 3,213   3,496    3,763          3,663           3,846                  2.7           4.5            3.7          15.6       16.0       15.0
Mamofartoring and Micing                   6,374   6,712    7,471          7,888            8,125                  6.6            7 b           6.6          31.0      31.8       31.8
Other                                     10,956  11.362   12.276          13.026          13.589                  5.4           5.9            6.2          53.3      52.2       53.2
Total                                     20,543  21,570   23,510          24,577          25,560                  5.3            6.2           6.2         100.0    140.0        100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE!                                                 Ctorrent Prices                                                                               As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Csrra-t Rce.ipts                            2,772   3,489    43841          305               . .                                                            17.5      19.5
Corret Expenditumes                         2,520   3,154    4,794          6,267                        ..            .-         *-                         16.0      19.4
Bodgetary Savings                             252      335       47            38            ..                    ..             ..            ..            1.6       0.2
Public Sector Investment                      224      281      328           352            ..                    ..             ..            ..            1.4        1.3
10000 FORGE hNDi  OUTPUT PER WORR2GER-/                      TOTAL LABOR PORICE                                    VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 = 17 Dis.
Million        S of Total           1972-75                        US Dollars             Percent of Average          1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                  1972      1975              1972      1975    Ax. An-. Growth Rate
Agricult-re _                                3.55    3.10   45.4    39.0             -4.6                         905    1,182                 34        39              9.3
Mb-ufact-ring sod Mining                     1.65    1.87   21.2    23.6              4.3                       3,863    4,218                147       136             3.0
Other 2/                                     2.60    2.95   33.4    37.4              4.3                       4 214    4 416                160       142              1.6
Total -                                      7.80    7.92  100.0   100.0              0.8                       2T,634    3:103               ThO      T0
1/ Budgets of Federation, Repsblics and Astono=ous Provinces, and Coensines uneonsalidated.
2/ Uto!1 resident active labor farce, i.e. eacloding workers abrsad and unemployed.
3/ Estimated active labor force in the private and nocial egri-ltural sector.
Europe, Riddle East and North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                 Estimated  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975         1976        1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 3424    4363    5696    6307         7259        7985           20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                 3828    5124    8337    8760         8664       10832          22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)              -404    -761   -2641   -2453        -1405      - 2847
Interest                            -165    -222    -285    -337         -350      -  428          20.2
Workers Remittances                  889    1301    1511    1575          1728        1750          18.1
Other factor services net              17      50       93       62         40          42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)               82       96      138      121       137          150         .13.6
Balance on Current Account           419      464   -1184   -1032          150     - 1333
M&LT Loans /I
Disbursements                      943    1170    1426    1850         1700        2424           15.9
Repayments                        -570    -686    -814    -930         -800      - 1091           8.8
Net Disbursements                    373      484      612      920        900        1333          24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2       -117    -255       139     -68       -133          -
Use of Reserves                     -675    -663       438      180      - 917         _                   Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE-/4    1972    1973    1974         1975
Official Grants & Grant-like          -        -        -        -    Public Debt Out. &          16idT.-o  I 6W73  2053.3   2277-3
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                 -        -       -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                  -        -        -       -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                      183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service              638.2   746.4   8222       989.7
Suppliers                         82.3      3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service            855.7  1048.5  1206.2   1419.5
Financial Institutions           121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                               -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (1)'-
Public Loans n.e.i.                4.2       -        -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans            466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio  5.0           5.2      5.2       5. 4
Total.Debt Service Ratio   19.3    17.6    16.4         17.6
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -          -        -        -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only          Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                         559.1                  24.6
IDA                                  -                     -            Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                   5.3                    .2                         DO&D         4.7      6.0      5.4       5.9
Governments                       1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                          115.6                   5.1                         DO&D        11.5    12.7    15.1        15.0
Financial Institutions             269.9                  11.9
Bonds                               18.1                    .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                  -               as % Public Debt O&D  19.6    18.8    20.6          24.6
2272.5                 100.0             as % Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.6        12.9         R
Other M&LT Debts/3                3492.7
Short-term Debt (disb. only)         -
1/  Includes direct foreign investment.
21  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/ Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
January 27, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty  Loans fully disbursed                                    553.2
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0    17.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                   Tourism               20.0     0.7
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0     7.2
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries          31.0     4.7
916     1973   Naftagas                      Gas Pipeline         59.4    21.6
947     1973   Kikinda                       Iron Foundry          14.5     0.2
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                  Roads                 30.0     0.5
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Industrial Credit   28.0       3.5
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0         3.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways             93.0    39.8
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0    23.3
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0     5.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0    32.0
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                40.0    20.5
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod        Pipeline             48.5    41.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda          Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    18.0
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage            45.0    42.5
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise       Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control             38.0    37.4
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                     Credit               50.0    39.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          53.7
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      25.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.9
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      56.0
1469/a   1977   JUGEL                        Second Power
Transmission        80.0      80.0
1477/a   1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,627.6    671.5
of which has been repaid                              184.2
Total now outstanding                                 1,443.4
Amount sold                              7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.8               1.0
Total now held by Bank                                1,442.4
Total undisbursed                                                671.5
/a Declared effective in Ja4uary 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1978)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment               Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -       2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry            7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.3    3.3       16.6
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires             4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                            Pulp and Paper  13.3      -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0      -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                    Steel            50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute          Food and Food
Hrane                                Processing       4.0    2.2        6.2
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        14.8    2.4      17.2
Total Gross Commitments                                131.9   22.0    153.9
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             68.3    2.6      70.9
Total commitments held by IFC                          63.6   19.4       83.0
Total Undisbursed                                      22.3   11.5      33.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21. 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. The Closing Date will be extended to permit
disbursement for a computer as soon as delivery dates are established.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $425 million (up 89 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers with the objective of beginning implementation of
the recommendations by mid-1978. The promulgation of the new Constitution in
1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and financial status of the
Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pool-
ing resources at the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrange-
ments including the application of financial covenants. These changes were
incorporated in the Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, five are under construction. Status of
the two remaining subprojects is as follows: (i) slaughterhouse facility
construction contract has been signed but is being amended to incorporate
Bank's comments; (ii) wine byproducts facility will either be retendered or
not constructed at all because of the high investment costs and resulting low
financial viability. In the latter case, a substitute subproject will be
financed.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The Project was inaugurated on September 4, 1976. The Project Com-
pletion Report was prepared in September 1977. Total project costs exceeded
appraisal estimates by about 15% (about US$5.2 million equivalent) due to
increases in local costs resulting largely from design changes. Financing of
this overrun was arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to
soon catch up and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit:  US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway tariffs
to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative diffi-
culties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementation.
With tariff increases approved in early 1977 these problems have largely been
resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments, including improved investment
planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of Social Agree-
ments on railway and transport policies have been most encouraging.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Eighty percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the last year and the situation is expected to improve
further in coming months.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost over-run of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original Project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
review of the award of a site preparation contract, the Bank concluded that
the contract was not awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000) that would have otherwise been
eligible for disbursement was cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. Terms of reference and selection of consultants have been finalized
for the flood control and water quality studies. Tender documents for the
Vrutci Dam have been reviewed, and construction will begin in early 1978.
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the
remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice.
Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway, and in Titovo
Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign assistance
to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components have been delayed
pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements. The impetus
towards the creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has
slowed due to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among
all the Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization.
Staffing has been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice and in the Serbian Water Fund.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and preparatory work is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily and are currently projected to be
fully committed by early spring of this year. The portion for the Kosovan



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
bank is forecast to be fully committed by June 1978 (the final date for sub-
mission of subprojects is December 31, 1978). Disbursements are slightly
behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 MetohiJa Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3.
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam will be issued shortly.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Invitations for international
tenders for the winery will be issued shortly.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
There were delays in instituting administrative arrangements,
including the hiring of procurement consultants, but implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
This loan was declared effective September 7, 1977. The contract
for the road in Macedonia and a portion of the road in Kosovo remain to be
awarded.  Work on the Bosnian and Serbian roads and on a portion of the road
in Kosovo have already begun.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan was declared effective January 31, 1978. Procurement has
commenced. The proposed loan from the European Investment Bank was signed
in November 1977 and local loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective January 30, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                    3 years (1975-77)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                     Community of Yugoslav
Railways (CYR), Railway
Transport Enterprises
(RTEs) of Belgrade, Zagreb
Ljubljana, Sarajevo, and
Skopje.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                     December 1974
(d)  First Bank mission:                             December 1974
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:                    October 1976 - initial
May 1977 - completion
(f)  Negotiations completed:                         January 20, 1978
(g)  Loan Effectiveness planned:                     July 31, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank will maintain close cooperation with the Borrower in respect
of amendments to the Investment Plan and for the transfer of investments from
Part B to Part A (paragraph 59, this report).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  RTEs to extend to specified works the project management procedures
instituted under the fourth project (paragraph 45, this report).
(b) Periodic reviews to be undertaken to define uneconomic lines
(paragraph 51, this report).
(c) Establishment of procedures for modification of Investment
Plans in consultation with the Bank (paragraph 59, this report).
(d) Agreement to continue to implement and update Action Plans
and Operational Plans to improve technical/economic analysis
and improve utilization of assets (paragraphs 69-71, this
report).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) Undertaking by CYRs and RTEs to take all action in their power
to obtain annual tariff increases to compensate for inflation
(paragraph 76, this report).
(f) Determination of surplus staff and execution of manpower plans
(paragraph 52, this report).
(g) Consultation with Bank on proposals to reduce and ultimately
eliminate compensation payments after 1980 (paragraph 76, this
report).
(h) Establishment of Operational and Financial targets (paragraph 77,
this report).






IBRD 13126k
WTM ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ S
AU'        OTER  AD  ROIC                                                                                        ,                   A~S
C., 'E*  RAILWAY STATIONSOT
HORNS                                                                            ALBAN   A                       S                                                  3141  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L1- 
Liu    A ~ ~ ~ OSORE AAL                                                                                                                                                              '
MG
4'  AITRTRTS                                                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
NOSESSNA 43433005~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L 
YUGNRAN OSES     AVIAT   SANSI...D....                                                                                                                              LE313c
NOJNNEE 45 SR RERONCICS END ESTONEMORT PRTNNCES  NSLNMN54545         3D    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            tcPE
RARNEITNASL  -EOOAIE                                                                                                                                                                     511A,
IN'                  33                        IS                       310 .AN  .oNA                                                                                                       EST                      33              TEEREAl   O



