CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
Guarantee Agreement
(Fifth Railway Project)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND .DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 13, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1978, between SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Zajednica Jugoslovenskih Zeleznica (Community of
Yugoslav Railways (hereinafter called the Borrower) acting on
behalf of and for the account of the railway transport enterprises
and organizations associated within the Borrower (hereinafter
called the Enterprises), the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower
in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Borrower, by subsidiary agreements of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Enterprises, will
transfer portions of the proceeds of the Loan to the Enterprises,
as provided in the said subsidiary agreements; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
,said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿-3-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance (i) by the Borrower of
its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement or (ii) by the
Borrower and the Enterprises of their respective obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreements and that, within the limit of its
constitutional powers, it will take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower
and the Enterprises to perform such obligations.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of the provisions
set forth in paragraph (a) above, -the Guarantor shall enable the
Borrower and the Enterprises to obtain all necessary governmental
authorizations or approvals to provide for the Enterprises the
revenues required by the provisions set forth in Section 5.05 of
the respective Subsidiary Agreements.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Federal Secretary for Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
Bulevar Avnoj-a 104
11070 Belgrade
Yugoslavia


﻿-4-
Cable address:                       Telex:
SAVEZNI SEKRETARIJAT ZA                 11448 YU SIV
FINANSIJE
Belgrade
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Dimce Belovski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


