CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
Subsidiary Agreement
(Fifth Railway Project)
between
ZAJEDNICA JUGOSLOVENSKIH ZELEZNICA
(Community of Yugoslav Railways)
and
ZELEZNISKO GOSPODARSTVO LJUBLJANA
(Ljubljana Railway Enterprise)
Dated April 13, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
SUBSIDIARY AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1978, between ZAJEDNICA
JUGOSLOVENSKIH ZELEZNICA (Community of Yugoslav Railways)
(hereinafter called the Community) and ZELJEZNICKO TRANS-
PORTNO PREDUZECE SARAJEVO (Sarajevo Railway Transport Enter-
prise) (hereinafter called the Enterprise).
WHEREAS by a Loan Agreement dated April 13, 1978 (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) and
the Community, acting on behalf of and for the account of the
railway transport enterprises and organizations associated within
the Community, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Community a loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million United States dollars ($100,000,000) (herein-
after called the Loan) under the terms and conditions and for the
purposes set forth therein;
WHEREAS a copy of the Loan Agreement has been furnished to
the Enterprise which accepts all its provisions insofar as they
may concern it;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement the Community
shall transfer to the Enterprise a part of the proceeds of the
Loan under a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the Bank;
and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this
Agreement, which is the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall
have the respective meanings therein set forth, except for the
terms already defined in the Preamble to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Enterprise's Portion of the Loan
Section 2.01. The Community shall transfer to the Enterprise,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the amount allocated to the
Enterprise pursuant to Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, or deemed
allocated to the Enterprise (hereinafter called the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan), on the terms and conditions in this Subsid-
iary Agreement set forth or referred to. The amount of the Loan
allocated for technical assistance and training under Category (9)
of the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be deemed
allocated to the Enterprise (i) to the extent that it is allo-
cated to expenditures made or to be made by or for the account of
the Enterprise and (ii) in respect of expenditures which cannot be
identified as pertaining to the Enterprise or any other Enter-
prise, in the proportions that the amount specifically allocated
to the Enterprise under Categories (1) through (8) of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Loan bears to the total amount of the
Loan, or as the Community and the Enterprises shall otherwise
mutually agree.
Section 2.02. (a) Upon request of the Enterprise, the Com-
munity shall promptly make application for withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the amounts which the Community is entitled to
withdraw therefrom for expenditures by the Enterprise for the
Project.
(b) The Enterprise shall promptly furnish to the Community,
with a view to submission to the Bank, all such documents as are
required by the Loan Agreement or as shall be requested by the
Bank in order to enable the Community to make the withdrawals from
the Loan Account requested by the Enterprise.
Section 2.03. The Community shall open a Subsidiary Account
on its books in the name of the Enterprise and shall credit to
such account the amount of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan as
determined in accordance with Section 2.01 of th±s Agreement.
Portions of the. Enterprise' s portion of the Loan shall be deemed
to be withdrawn from such account on the date and in the amount
and currencies of each withdrawal by the Community from the Loan
Account with the Bank, made at the request of the Community in
accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Enterprise shall pay to the Community
for payment to the Bank a commitment charge in dollars at the rate


﻿-3-
of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the principal amount of the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan not withdrawn from the Subsidiary Account.
Upon full withdrawal or cancellation of the Loan, appropriate
adjustment shall be made in such commitment charge on the basis of
the actual amounts of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan stand-
ing to the credit of the Enterprise from time to time.
(b) The Enterprise shall also pay to the Community for
payment to the Bank in dollars any additional charges payable by
the Community to the Bank under the Loan Agreement on account of
any special commitments entered into by the Bank, in accordance
with Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in said
Loan Agreement, at the request of the Community for expenditures
by the Enterprise. The Community shall promptly request the Bank
to enter into such special commitments upon written application of
the Enterprise and upon such terms and conditions as shall be
agreed between the Bank and the Community acting on behalf of the
Enterprise.
Section 2.05. The Enterprise shall pay interest to the
Community for payment to the Bank at the rate of 7.45% on the
principal amount of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time. Interest on any portion of the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan so withdrawn shall be payable in
the currency in which the principal of such portion is repayable.
Section 2.06. Interest and commitment charges shall be paid
by the Enterprise to the Community semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Enterprise shall pay to the Community for
repayment to the Bank the principal amount of the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan withdrawn by the Community from the Loan
Account at the request of the Enterprise in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement on the dates and pro rata to the
amounts of the maturities of the Loan set forth in Schedule 3 to
the Loan Agreement, in such currencies, required by the Community
to repay to the Bank said maturities of the Loan, as the Community
shall specify prior to each maturity date.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Enterprise shall carry out its portion
of Part I of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-4-
accordance with appropriate financial, engineering and railway
management practices, and in close cooperation with the Community.
(b) The Enterprise shall give its full cooperation to the
Community in carrying out that portion of Part II of the Project
which is of common interest to the Enterprises, and shall carry
out that portion of Part II of the Project for which it is
directly responsible, in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.02. Where consultants are required to be employed
by the Enterprise for the purpose of assisting the Enterprise in
carrying out any portion of Part II of the Project, such consul-
tants shall be acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the Enterprise shall
appoint amongst its staff qualified counterparts to such con-
sultants.
Section 3.03. The Enterprise shall comply with all the
provisions of the Loan Agreement relating to withdrawals from the
Loan Account and the use of the proceeds of the Loan and procure-
ment of goods and services so financed, insofar as they concern
expenditures by, or for the account of the Enterprise, as if such
provisions were fully set forth in this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Enterprise shall:
(i) carry out its portion of the investments on which
the Loan proceeds shall be disbursed under Part I
of the Project in accordance with Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement;
(ii) insure, or make adequate provision for the insur-
ance of, the imported goods to be financed out of
the Enterprise's portion of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(iii) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the portion of Part I
of the Project carried out by the Enterprise
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived


