CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
Subsidiary Agreement
(Fifth Railway Project)
between
ZAJEDNICA JUGOSLOVENSKIH ZELEZNICA
(Community of Yugoslav Railways)
and
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PRETPRIJATIE SKOPJE
(Skopje Railway Transport Enterprise)
Dated April 13, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1534 YU
SUBSIDIARY AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1978, between ZAJEDNICA
JUGOSLOVENSKIH ZELEZNICA (Community of Yugoslav Railways)
(hereinafter called the Community) and ZELEZNICKO TRANS-
PORTNO PRETPRIJATIE SKOPJE (Skopje Railway Transport Enterprise)
(hereinafter called the Enterprise).
WHEREAS by a Loan Agreement dated April 13, 1978 (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) and
the Community, acting on behalf of and for the account of the
railway transport enterprises and organizations associated within
the Community, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Community a loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million United States dollars ($100,000,000) (herein-
after called the Loan) under the terms and conditions and for the
purposes set forth therein;
WHEREAS a copy of the Loan Agreement has been furnished to
the Enterprise which accepts all its provisions insofar as they
may concern it;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement the Community
shall transfer to the Enterprise a part of the proceeds of the
Loan under a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the Bank;
and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this
Agreement, which is the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall
have the respective meanings therein set forth, except for the
terms already defined in the Preamble to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Enterprise's Portion of the Loan
Section 2.01. The Community shall transfer to the Enterprise,
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the amount allocated to the
Enterprise pursuant to Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, or deemed
allocated to the Enterprise (hereinafter called the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan), on the terms and conditions in this Subsid-
iary Agreement set forth or referred to. The amount of the Loan
allocated for technical assistance and training under Category (9)
of the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be deemed
allocated to the Enterprise (i) to the extent that it is allocated
to expenditures made or to be made by or for the account of the
Enterprise and (ii) in respect of expenditures which cannot be
identified as pertaining to the Enterprise or any other Enter-
prise, in the proportions that the amount specifically allocated
to the Enterprise under Categories (1) through (8) of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Loan bears to the total amount of the
Loan, or as the Community and the Enterprises shall otherwise
mutually agree.
Section 2.02. (a) Upon request of the Enterprise, the Com-
munity shall promptly make application for withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the amounts which the Community is entitled to
withdraw therefrom for expenditures by the Enterprise for the
Project.
(b) The Enterprise shall promptly furnish to the Community,
with a view to submission to the Bank, all such documents as are
required by the Loan Agreement or as shall be requested by the
Bank in order to enable the Community to make the withdrawals from
the Loan Account requested by the Enterprise.
Section 2.03. The Community shall open a Subsidiary Account
on its books in the name of the Enterprise and shall credit to
such account the amount of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan as
determined in accordance with Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Portions of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan shall be deemed
to be withdrawn from such account on the date and in the amount
and currencies of each withdrawal by the Community from the Loan
Account with the Bank, made at the request of the Community in
accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Enterprise shall pay to the Community
for payment to the Bank a commitment charge in dollars at the rate


﻿-3-
of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the principal amount of the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan not withdrawn from the Subsidiary Account.
Upon full withdrawal or cancellation of the Loan, appropriate
adjustment shall be made in such commitment charge on the basis of
the actual amounts of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan stand-
ing to the credit of the Enterprise from time to time.
(b) The Enterprise shall also pay to the Community for pay-
ment to the Bank in dollars any additional charges payable by the
Community to the Bank under the Loan Agreement on account of any
special commitments entered into by the Bank, in accordance with
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in said Loan
Agreement, at the request of the Community for expenditures by the
Enterprise. The Community shall promptly request the Bank to enter
into such special commitments upon written application of the
Enterprise and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed
between the Bank and the Community acting on behalf of the
Enterprise.
Section 2.05. The Enterprise shall pay interest to the
Community for payment to the Bank at the rate of 7.45% on the
principal amount of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time. Interest on any portion of the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan so withdrawn shall be payable in
the currency in which the principal of such portion is repayable.
Section 2.06. Interest and commitment charges shall be paid
by the Enterprise to the Community semiannually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Enterprise shall pay to the Community for
repayment to the Bank the principal amount of the Enterprise's
portion of the Loan withdrawn by the Community from the Loan
Account at the request of the Enterprise in accordance with
Section 2.02 of this Agreement on the dates and pro rata to the
amounts of the maturities of the Loan set forth in Schedule 3 to
the Loan Agreement, in such currencies, required by the Community
to repay to the Bank said maturities of the Loan, as the Community
shall specify prior to each maturity date.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Enterprise shall carry out its portion
of Part I of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-4-
accordance with appropriate financial, engineering and railway
management practices, and in close cooperation with the Community.
(b) The Enterprise shall give its full cooperation to the
Community in carrying out that portion of Part II of the Project
which is of common interest to the Enterprises, and shall carry
out that portion of Part II of the Project for which it is
directly responsible, in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.02. Where consultants are required to be employed
by the Enterprise for the purpose of assisting the Enterprise in
carrying out any portion of Part II of the Project, such consul-
tants shall be acceptable to the Bank and employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the Enterprise shall
appoint amongst its staff qualified counterparts to such con-
sultants.
Section 3.03. The Enterprise shall comply with all the
provisions of the Loan Agreement relating to withdrawals from the
Loan Account and the use of the proceeds of the Loan and procure-
ment of goods and services so financed, insofar as they concern
expenditures by, or for the account of the Enterprise, as if such
provisicns were fully set forth in this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Enterprise shall:
(i) carry out its portion of the investments on which
the Loan proceeds shall be disbursed under Part I
of the Project in accordance with Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement;
(ii) insure, or make adequate provision for the insur-
ance of, the imported goods to be financed out of
the Enterprise's portion of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(iii) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the portion of Part I
of the Project carried out by the Enterprise
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived


﻿-5-
from it) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan trans-
ferred to the Enterprise under this Agreement, all
in accordance with guidelines agreed within the
Community;
(iv) enable the Bank's and the Community's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in that portion of the Project for
which the Enterprise is responsible and to examine
the goods financed out of the Enterprise's portion
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
(v) furnish to the Bank through the Community quarterly
reports (in respect of the portion of the invest-
ments for which the Enterprise is responsible
and on which the Enterprise's portion of the Loan
proceeds shall be disbursed, and also on traffic
and financial results), annual reports (in respect
of the Enterprise's portion of the Project) and all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning-the Enterprise's portion of
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Enterprise's portion of the
Loan, and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds;
(vi) promptly after completion of the Enterprise's
portion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the
Bank through the Community a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank and the Community
shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Enterprise's portion of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the
Enterprise of its obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan, and update
said report, as the Bank and the Community shall
reasonably request, for the preparation of the
report referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 3.05
of the Loan Agreement; and
(vii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land, and


﻿-6-
rights in respect of land, as shall be required for
the construction and operation of the facilities
included in its portion of Part I of the Project,
and shall furnish to the Bank through the Commu-
nity, on request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall acquire the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan free of any
encumbrances.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operation of the Enterprise
Section 4.01. (a) The Enterprise shall at all times conduct
its operations, manage its affairs, plan its investments and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
financial, engineering and railway management principles and
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management and shall promptly take all actions which are contem-
plated or required on its part by the Action Plan.
(b) Without any limitation to the generality of the fore-
going paragraph, the Enterprise shall at all times employ an
adequate number of appropriately qualified staff, including
engineers, economists, financial analysts and procurement offi-
cers, for the purpose of planning investments, placing contracts
and monitoring the execution of all contracts and works.
Section 4.02. The Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make adequate provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate railway practice.
Section 4.03. The Enterprise shall take all steps necessary
to maintain or renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. The Enterprise shall at all times operate and
maintain its railway network, equipment and installations and make
all necessary renewals or repairs in accordance with appropriate
engineering and railway management practices.


﻿-7-
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall at all times use its best efforts to achieve
the annual operational targets set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, as
part of its Action Plan, the Enterprise shall, within twelve
months from the date of this Agreement, carry out and complete, or
cause to be carried out and completed, a review of its railway
lines, in accordance with the agreed common methodology for the
Yugoslav Railways for defining uneconomic lines referred to in
Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement, and shall thereafter update or
cause to be updated said review at intervals of not less than
twelve months and take all necessary steps to close such lines,
unless the competent authorities shall have agreed to provide
compensation for all losses resulting from the continued operation
of such uneconomic lines.
Section 4.07. After determining the number of staff who have
or will become surplus as a result of investment and rationaliza-
tion, the Enterprise shall, within twelve months from the date of
this Agreement or such other date as the Bank shall agree, pre-
pare, as part of the updating process of its Action Plan, and
thereafter carry out a manpower plan which shall include, in
addition to the staffing and productivity targets to be achieved
in accordance with Section 4.05 and Schedule 1 of this Agreement:
(a) estimates of future staffing requirements and probable
recruitment sources, and (b) plans for retraining, transferring
and retiring surplus staff.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall adopt and implement a system of project manage-
ment under which a single officer of the Enterprise, with appro-
priate qualifications and experience, shall be made responsible
for the completion, in accordance with specifications and time
schedules and within budget, of all interdependent works (such as,
for example, signalling, electrification, and track overhaul) on
given lines or locations, wherever appropriate. In any event, at
least one such officer shall be appointed for all works included
in its Investment Plan, if no other such officers are appointed.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business, or which would otherwise


﻿-8-
materially and adversely affect its ability to meet the opera-
tional or financial targets referred to in Schedules 1 and 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 4.10. The Enterprise shall review at least annually
with the Community its Investment Plan (taking into account
traffic results and trends) and related Financing Plan and shall,
after consultation, as necessary, with the authorities concerned,
forward through the Community to the Bank its revised Investment
Plan and related Financing Plan (subject to the provisions of
Section 4.11 of this Agreement).
Section 4.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall not:
(i) make or permit any material reduction to be made to
its Investment Plan;
(ii) make or permit any change in the investments on
which the Enterprise's portion of th! Loan proceeds
shall be disbursed;
(iii) make or pcr..it any additions to be made to Part A
of its Investment Plan, or undertake or permit any
investments to be undertaken which are not included
in Part A of its Investment Plan, in an estimated
amount exceeding ten million dollars ($10,000,000)
equivalent, for groups of related investments in
respect of new line construction, electrification
or station reconstruction; or
(iv) make or permit any other material additions to be
made to its Investment Plan, or any material trans-
fer to be made from Part B to Part A of its Invest-
ment Plan, or undertake or permit any material
investments to be undertaken which are not included
in Part A of its Investment Plan, unless, before
any such material additions are made, or before any
such material transfer is made, or before any such
material additional   investments are undertaken:
(A) appropriate   technical/economic  studies
with regard to such investments or trans-
fers shall have been carried out by
competent and experienced experts; and


﻿-9-
(B) the Enterprise (acting through the Com-
munity) shall afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to review the studies
referred to in (A) above and to exchange
views with the Enterprise through the
Community with regard to such proposed
additional or transferred investments.
Section 4.12. (a) The Enterprise shall: (i) carry out its
Action Plan (including its Operational Plans) with due diligence
and efficiency in accordance with the provisions set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; (ii) follow appropriate monitor-
ing procedures to assess progress in the implementation of its
Action Plan; (iii) in cooperation with the Community and in
consultation with the authorities concerned, review and update its
Action Plan (including its Operational Plans) at least annually;
and (iv) furnish through the Community to the Bank semiannual
progress reports on its Action Plan (nct necessarily including its
Operational Plans) and annual revisions to its Action Plan
(including its Operational Plans).
(b) With respect to its Action Plan, the Enterprise shall,
inter alia, in association with the Community: (i) initiate,
within twelve months from the date of this Agreement or such other
date as the Bank shall agree, and thereafter complete, a study of
maintenance practices for electric locomotives in accordance with
terms of reference and on conditions satisfactory to the Community
and the Bank; and (ii) as part of its Operational Plans, further
develop signalling and telecommunications plans in accordance with
terms of reference and on conditions satisfactory to the Community
and the Bank, and provide for targets for the utilization of
traction and rolling stock and for locomotive availability.
ARTIZLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Enterprise shall maintain records adequate
to reflect the operations and financial condition of the Enter-
prise in accordance with appropriate accounting practices consis-
tently maintained.
Section 5.02. The Enterprise shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in


﻿- 10 -
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization; (ii) furnish to the
Bank through the Community, as soon as available but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank through the Community such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Enterprise and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Enterprise represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Enterprise undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Enterprise shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Enterprise's portion of the Loan and
that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect at no cost to the Community or the Bank and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Enterprise as security for any debt, the Enterprise shall grant,
at no cost to the Community or the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Community and the Bank to secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Enter-
prise's portion of the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
(c) The Community and the Enterprise agree that the provi-
sions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 5.03 are intended
for the benefit of the Bank, and that any security granted for the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan shall be held by the Community as
security for the repayment of the Loan, to the extent of the
amount of the Enterprise's portion of the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Enterprise shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the


﻿- 11 -
Enterprise which would materially and adversely affect the Enter-
prise's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Enterprise shall take all necessary actions, within its
powers, to implement the measures specified in the Social Agree-
ments for Railway Development, on Economic Measures and on Trans-
port Policy, and in particular such measures as may be necessary
to provide the revenues required in paragraph (b) and paragraph
(c) of this Section. Such measures shall relate in particular to:
(i) the adjustment of freight and passenger tariffs, including
timely annual increases at least sufficient to compensate for the
effect of increases in cost levels during the previous twelve-
month period, computed on the basis of appropriate indices in
accordance with the established pricing policy of the Guarantor;
(ii) obtaining timely payments of compensation as provided in
Article 5 of the Social Agreement on Economic Measures; and (iii)
obtaining Specific Subsidies, where appropriate.
(b) The revenues referred to in paragraph (a) above shall
be sufficient:
(i) to cover in any given year all operating expenses
including employee compensation, depreciation and
interest, and taxes and other contributions pro-
vided by law, if any;
(ii) to cover in any given year debt amortization
insofar as it exceeds depreciation;
(iii) to provide for adequate increases in working
capital;
(iv) to make contributions as necessary to reserve and
other authorized funds; and
(v) to finance an average of not less than twenty-two
per cent (22%) of the cost of its Investment Plan
during the period 1978-1980.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, commencing in
1980, revenues obtained through freight, passenger and other
tariffs shall represent not less than ninety-five per cent (95%)
of the total revenues consisting of revenues obtained through
freight, passenger and other tariffs, compensation received under


﻿- 12 -
the terms of the Social Agreement on Economic Measures and Speci-
fic Subsidies.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Enterprise shall not after the date of the Subsidiary Agree-
ment incur any debt unless (i) the incurrence of such debt is not
likely to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Enterprise to carry out its obligations under this Subsidiary
Agreement, including its repayment obligation in respect of the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan, and (ii) if the incurrence of
debt by the Enterprise during the years 1978 through 1980 would
not be covered by the ratios referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, the Enterprise shall have first afforded the Bank a
reasonable opportunity t, exchange views with the Enterprise
concerning its proposal to incur -ulb additional debt.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Enterprise shall not incur debt without a prior exchange of views
as provided in paragraph (a) if its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever amount is the greater, shall be less than (i) 1.2 times
during 1978, (ii) 1.3 times during 1979, or (iii) 1.5 times dur-
ing 1980, the maxiLum debL service requirements fur any succeed-
ing fiscal year on all the Enterprise's debt, including the
debt to be incurred.
(c) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) "debt" means all debt of the Enterprise, including
debt guaranteed by the Enterprise, maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of the contract or other
document providing for such debt or modifying its
terms of payment;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, adjusted to take account
of the Enterprise's tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating expenses, including adequate mainten-
ance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses,


﻿- 13 -
but before provision for depreciation and debt
service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in the currency of the
Guarantor debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate of
exchange at which such other currency is obtainable
by the Enterprise, at the time such valuation is
made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Enterprise shall at all times use its best efforts to achieve
the annual financial targets set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Consultation and Information
Section 6.01. The Enterprise shall cooperate fully with the
other Enterprises within the Community and with the Bank to ensure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end,
the Community and the Enterprise shall from time to time, at the
request of either party or of the Bank:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance of their respective obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Community and the Enterprise, and any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b) furnish to the other party and the Bank all such infor-
mation as it shall reasonably request concerning the progress of
the portion of the Project to be carried out by the Enterprise and
the general status of the Loan and the Enterprise's portion of the
Loan.


﻿- 14 -
Section 6.02. The Enterprise shall furnish to the Bank
through the Community all such information concerning the adminis-
tration, operation and financial condition of the Enterprise as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 6.03. The Community and the Enterprise shall promptly
inform each other and the Bank of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or
the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. The Enterprise shall enable the representatives
of the Community and the Bank to inspect the records referred to
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 6.05. During 1979, the Enterprise, in cooperation
with the Community, shall consult with the Bank as to the means by
which to achieve the objective of further decrease and ultimate
elimination of compensation payments (as provided in Article 5 of
the Social Agreement on Economic Measures) after 1980.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies
Section 7.01. (a) If (i) a default shall have occurred in the
payment of any amount payable by the Enterprise to the Community
for payment to the Bank under this Agreement, or (ii) a default
shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation on
the part of the Enterprise under this Agreement, then the Bank may
by notice to the Enterprise through the Community suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Enterprise to request the Community to
withdraw from the Loan Account the amount of the Loan to be
transferred to the Enterprise and such right shall continue to be
suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event
or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to
exist or until the Bank shall have notified the Enterprise through
the Community that such right has been restored whichever is the
earlier.
(b) If the Community's right under the Loan Agreement to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspeaded
or terminated with respect to any amount in the Loan Account to be
transferred to the Enterprise, regardless of the reason therefor,


﻿- 15 -
then the right of the Enterprise to make withdrawals from the
Subsidiary Account provided in this Agreement shall likewise and
simultaneously be suspended or terminated, as the case may be.
Section 7.02. If (i) the event described in Section 7.01 (a)
(i) of this Agreement shall have occurred and shall continue for a
period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Enterprise through the Community; or (ii) the
event described in Section 7.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
have occurred and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Enterprise
through the Community; or (iii) if the Bank shall have declared
the principal amount of the Loan to be due and payable immediately
for reasons not attributable solely to the Community, then the
Bank, at its option, may declare the principal amount of the
Enterprise's portion of the Loan then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately to the Community for repayment to the Bank,
and upon such declaration such principal amount together with
interest and other charges thereon shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. This Agreement shall enter into force and
effect simultaneously with the Loan Agreement.
Section 8.02. When the entire principal amount of the Enter-
prise's portion of the Loan withdrawn by the Enterprise and all
interest and other charges accrued thereon shall have been paid,
or upon termination of the Loan Agreement prior to its effective-
ness, this Agreement and all the obligations hereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 8.03. Any notice, demand or request required or
permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered:
(i) for the Community:
Zajednica Jugoslovenskih Zeleznica
(Community of Yugoslav Railways)
Nemanjina 6
11000 Beograd, Yugoslavia


﻿- 16 -
(ii) for the Enterprise:
Zele7nifko transportno pretprijatie Skopje
Zelezni6ko 50-B
9100 Skopje, Yugoslavia
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS 'Wi-e1rREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Subsidiary Agreement to be signed in their respective names and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ZAJEDNICA JUGOSLOVENSKIH ZELEZNICA
By Is/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative
ZELEZNICKO TRANSPORTNO PRETPRIJATIE SKOPJE
By Is/ Vladimir Sidjelic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Annual Operational Targets
The Enterprise shall use its best efforts to achieve, as part
of the measures included in its Action Plan, the annual opera-
tional targets set forth below:
1978      1980
Number of staff at year-end*                    4,895     4,757
Productivity of labor (traffic
units (thousands)**/employee)*                    234       304
Availability of electric locomotives (%)           90        90
Availability of diesel locomotives (%)***          90        90
Engine-km per electric locomotive
day available                                     311       348
Engine-km per diesel locomotive day
available***                                      299       312
Turn-around time of freight cars (days)***          2.53      2.36
Net tonne-km/capacity of freight cars
(in thousands of tonnes)                       7.0       9.0
Net tonne-km/freight car (thousands)              319       414
Passenger-km/seat (thousands)                      42.2      48.8
*    Staff in basic Enterprise only.
**   Sum of net tonne-kms and passenger-kms.
*    Standard gauge only.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Annual Financial Targets
The Enterprise shall use its best efforts to achieve the
annual financial targets set forth below:
By 1978   By 1979   By 1980
1.   Operating Ratio:              92        92        89
For the purpose of this paragraph 1, the term "operating
ratio" means operating expenditures expressed as a percentage of
operating revenue. Operating revenue shall include compensation
as provided in Article 5 of the Social Agreement on Economic
Measures but shall exclude any reimbursement of residual deficits
after payment of such compensation. Operating expenditures means
operating and administrative expenses reduced by Specific Sub-
sidies and including depreciation but excluding interest.
2.   Working Capital Ratio:      By 1978   By 1979   By 1980
(a) Operating Cash             5%       6.5%       8%
(b) Other Working Capital     15%      17.5%      20%
For the purpose of this paragraph 2, the term "working
capital ratio" means working capital expressed as a percentage of
cash operating expenses. Working capital means the amount by
which the value of the current assets of the Enterprise exceeds
the value of its current liabilities. Current assets include
operating cash, stocks of stores, fuel and other materials and all
amounts currently owed to the Enterprise. Current liabilities
include all amounts currently owed by the Enterprise. Amounts owed
to or by the Enterprise are current if they are due for settlement
within twelve months of the date of incurrence of the debt.
Operating cash means cash freely available to the Enterprise
(without restriction or encumbrance) for conducting its operations
on a day-to-day basis. Other working capital means working capital
other than operating cash. Cash operating expenses means operating
and administrative expenses before charging depreciation and
reduced by Specific Subsidies.
3.   Annual Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets in Operation:
(a) for fiscal year 1978:                not less than 2.6%


﻿- 19 -
(b) for fiscal year 1979:                not less than 2.4%
(c) for fiscal year 1980 and thereafter: not less than 3.3%
For the purpose of this paragraph 3:
(M) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the operat-
ing surplus for that year to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "operating surplus" shall mean the differ-
ence between (A) operating revenue and (B) operat-
ing and administrative expenses, including adequate
maintenance and depreciation, but excluding inter-
est and other charges on debt and income taxes (if
any), and reduced by any Specific Subsidies;
(iii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation less the accumulated depreciation, both
as valued from time to time in accordance with
appropriate and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv) the term "operating revenue" shall include compen-
sation as provided in Article 5 of the Social
Agreement on Economic Measures, but shall not
include reimbursements for residual deficits,


