Z1O4  82- 6 0
41I~~~~~~~~~~   E   RICy 
RESTRICTED
Report'No. PU-76a
This report is for offical us only by the Bank Group and peificay authorized arpnizations
or persons. It nay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authoriztion. The
Dank Group does not accept responabfity for the acurcy or competeneu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
OF THE
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
GUATEMALA
November 12, 1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURREENY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     = Quetsal
US$1.00             Q l1.00
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km) = 0.621 statute mile
FISCAL YEAR
Calendar Year
ABBREVIITIONS. ACRONYMS AND IEFINITIONS
Carrier     - A system of providing several channels through one
transmission mode
Channel     - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying telephone,
telegraph or data signals
CCITT       - Telephone and Telegraph DInternational Consultative Committee
CaOTELCA    - Central American Telecommunications Commission
CONAPLAN    - National Planning Council
DDT         - Direccion General de Telecomunicaciones
DOCT        - Direccion General de Correos y Telegrafos
GUATEL      - Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones
GUATEL INT  - Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones Internacionales
ITU         -  International Telecommunication Union
KHz         - Kilohertz
MHz         - Megahertz
TELEX       - Teleprinter Exchange Service
HF          - High frequency (3 - 30 MH)
VHF         - Very high frequency (30 - 300 MHz)
UHF         - Ultra high frequency (300 - 3000 MHz)
VF          - Voice frequency (300 - 3I00 Hz)



GUATE11ALA
EKPRESA GUATEtALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
APPRAISAL OF THE FIST TELECC4MIUNICATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUlA1Y AND CONCLUSIONS                                          i-i
1.   TNTRODUCTION                                                      1
2.    THE ECONCf AND THE TELECYTJNICATMNS SECTOR                       2
The Economy                                                    2
The Telecommunications Sector                                  2
Existing Facilities                                            4
3.    THE PROGRLM AND THE PROJECT                                      6
The Program                                                    6
The Project                                                    6
Cost of the Project                                            7
Proposed Bank Loan                                             8
Procurement                                                    8
Disbursement                                                   8
Project Execution                                              8
4.   JUSTIFICATION                                                     9
Demand for Local Service                                       9
Demand for Long Distance Service                               9
Least-Cost Solution                                           10
?Internal Rate of Return                                      10
5.    THE BORROWER                                                    ll
Organization and Management                                   11
Staff and Training                                            11
Accounting and Auditing                                       12
Tariffs                                                       12
6.    FIXANCES                                                        14
General                                                       14
Past Finances - DGT                                           14
Past Finances - GUATEL INT                                    15
Transitional Financial Arrangements                           16
Financing Plan                                                16
Future Finances                                               18
7.   AG(3MENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                             20
This report is based on the f   ings of a mission composed of Messrs.
P. Bassole, J. G. Davis, N. Delma, A. Engvall and B. Holmgren, who visited
Guatemala in April/May 1971.






LIST  OF _  7'-i'1
1. Important Features of the Law Establishing GUATEL
2.   xisting Teleconmmunications Facilities
3. Central American Microwave Network
4. International Traffic Statistics
5. The Project
6. Construction Schedule of the Project
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Telephone Growth - Demand and Supply
9.  Internal Financial Rate of Return
10. Organization Chart
11.  Staff Details
12. DGT - lNotional Incone Statements
13.  DGT - Notional Balance Sheets
14.  DGT - Notional Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
15.  GUATI1L INT - Actual and Forecast Income Statements
16. GUATEL IT - Balance Sheets
17.  GU.&T'L ZiT - Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
13.  GUATEL - Forecast Income Statements
19.  GKIATEL - Forecast Baiance Sheets
20. GUATEL - Forecast Sources and Applications ol' Funds Statements
21. Kotes and Ass-ump,tions on Finaacial Statements
22. S-nmazy of Tariffs
'r-_eco.~-:-ca_tions ?-ogr, 1971-75 - L?  347LR1



I



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMWUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i        This report covers the appraisal of a project that forms
part of the 1971-75 expansion program of Empresa Guatemalteca de
Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), the entity responsible for all public
telecommunication services in Guatemala except the domestic telegraph
service. A Bank loan of US$16 million equivalent has been requested
to cover the foreign exchange cost of the project, the total cost of
which is estimated at US$21.2 million.
ii.       The expansion program, estimated to cost US$23.9 million
equivalent, comprises ongoing works carried over from an earlier
expansion plan and new works to be undertaken in the 1971-75 period.
The new works constitute the project appraised in this report.
iii.      The existing facilities are inadequate, as shown by the
large number of pending applications for telephone connections and
the substantial unsatisfied demand for long distance service. The
project would meet part of the demand for telephone connections by
increasing the capacity of local exchanges by 35,700 lines and would
alleviate congestion and delays in the national long distance traffic
by expanding and modernizing the long distance network. The internal
financial rate of return of the project is estimated to be 17%.
iv.       This would be the Bank's first telecommunications project
in Guatemala. GUATEL would be the borrower and would carry out the
project.
v.        In 1967 when the Government first expressed interest in
Bank financing, public telecommunications services were the respon-
sibility of two entities--one for national and the other for inter-
national services. The former was a government department with its
functions handled by a nrmber of other governmental agencies.  Part
of the national long distance routes and the telex service were the
responsiblity of the agency responsible for international services.
The Bank recognized the need for considerable reorganization and
helped draft the terms of referenae of the consultants engaged, un-
der USAID auspices, to prepare the project and to suggest steps to
properly organize the sector. Following these recommendations, in
April 1971 the Government in consultation with the Bank merged the
existing entities into GUATEL. While a satisfactory basic framework
has been established, as in all mergers, there inevitably will be a
number of problems to be solved before the new organization will be
fully effective. GUATEL has the capacity to resolve these matters.



- ii -
vi.      All Bank-financed items in the project would be inported and
procured through international conpetitive bidding, except for part
of the switching equipment (about US$1 million) to extend the existing
exchanges; this would be procured from existing suppliers for reason
of compatibility.
vii.     With the assurances obtained during negotiations, see Section 7,
the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16 million, for a
term of 20 years including a five-year grace period.



GUATEYMAI
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMNICACIONES (GUATEL)
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guatemala has asked the Bank to help finance
a project forming part of the 1971-75 expansion program to be undertaken
by Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), a corporation
responsible for all telecormunications in the country except the domestic
telegraph service. The expansion program is estimated to cost US$ 23.9
million equivalent. Its main objectives are to provide additions to the
local telephone and long distance commumication facilities to help them
meet the demand.
1-.02     The project proposed for Bank financing provides for the addition
of 35,700 lines to the capacity of local exchanges and for the expansion of
long distance facilities. The estimated project cost of US$21.2 million
equivalent includes a foreign exchange comiponent of about US$16 million,
which would be financed by the proposed loan.
1.03      This would be the Bank's first loan for telecommunications in
Guatemala. Application was received in November 1970, based on a feasi-
bility study by PAGE Communications Engineers, Inc., under a contract
financed by USAID. The Bank assisted in drawing up the terms of reference
for this study and was consulted during the project preparation.
1.04      An appraisal mission, cormposed of Messrs. M. V. Scoffier and
J. G. Davis, visited Guatemala in December 1970 but could not complete
its work because the Government had not come to a decision on the extent
of the final program. A second mission corrposed of Messrs. M. DeLima,
P. Bassole, J. G. Davis, B. Ho_1mgren and A. Engvall visited Guatemala in
April/May 1971 and completed the project appraisal.



-2-
2. THE ECONOMY AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
The Econony
2.01      Guatemala, over 100,000 km  in area and bordered on the north
and west by Mexico and on the east by Honduras and E1 Salvador, has
more than five million inhabitants, making it the most populous of the
Central American countries. The population, presently growing annually
at 3.1%, is concentrated in the central highlands and the Pacific lowlands.
Nearly one million people live in Guatemala City, the administrative and
commercial center, situated in the central highlands. Puerto Barrios and
Santo Tomas on Guatemala's Caribbean coast and San Jose on the Pacific coast
are the main ports. The main tourist centers--Lake Atitlan and Chichi-
castenango--are also in the highlands, about 150 km west of Guatemala City.
2.02      The GDP is estimated to be US$1.8 billion and is growing
annually at about 6%. The GDP per capita is about US$330. The main
components of the GDP are agriculture (27%) and manufacturing (16%),
the latter essentially for processing agricultural products.  In
agriculture, livestock is the most important sub-sector, followed by
coffee, cotton and forestry. Of the total GDP about 18% is exported,
with manufactured goods, coffee, cotton and bananas the most important
items.
2.03      Adequate communications in and between the main centers of
production, trade and services are necessary to fully realize the
benefits from investment in other sectors of the economy and thus are
essential for overall economic development. Moreover, satisfactory
telecommunications to serve Guatemala's tourist centers are a pre-
condition for developing the tourism sector, which has a large but
scarcely developed potential. At present, Guatemala lacks such a
satisfactory basic communications network.
The Telecommunications Sector
2.04      Prior to April 1971 the resoonsibility for providing telecommuni-
cations services was basically divided between two entities: Direccion
General de Telecomanicaciones (DGT) and Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomuni-
cac-lones Lnternacionales (GUATEL INT).
2.05      DGT was nominally responsible for the local telephone service,
most- of the domestic long distance telephone service, and for the domestic
telegraph service. However, its role was largely limited to technical
supervision and operation of those services. Planning and development
acti-+t±ies took place at YMinistry level through ad hoc committees. Con-
tracts for the construction and maintenance of the automatic telephone



-3-
exchanges and local networks were administered by the Telephone Project
Group, which reported directly to the Ministry rather than to DGT. The
national budget provided funds for DGTIs operating and staff expenditures.
Telephone accounts (including billing and charge collection from subscribers
and debt servicing) were kept by the Banco de Guatemala. Telephone, tele-
graph and miscellaneous revenues collected by or for DGT were paid to the
Treasury. The terminal charges on international telephone calls which would
normally be payable by GUATEL INT to DGT for the use of national facilities
were merged in the GUATEL INT operating surpluses, a portion of which was
transferred to the Government. DGT's statute and organization were not
satisfactory and its operations were barely profitable. However, it did
have an adequate technical staff.
2.06      GUATEL INT was created in 1966 to take over and operate all the
international telegraph and telephone services formerly provided by the
Tropical Radio Co., a foreign concessionary conpany. Subsequently, it was
authorized to operate the telex service and the-domeatic long distance
service on links between cities along the land-based international routes
that it would establish.  in particular, GUATEL INT was to own and operate
the Guatemala portion of the COMTELCA regional network (see Annex 3), which
is presently under construction in five Central American countries and is
expected to begin operations by the end of 1971. Organized entirely on a
commercial basis, GUATEL INT was an efficient and dynamic entity.  It had
a capable staff of less than 400 for operations and administration and had
developed an effective planning and development unit.
2.07      In 1967 the Government indicated that it would carry out a national
telecommunications expansion program for which it would seek Bank finance.
At the same time the Government recognized that a reorganization of the sec-
tor was necessary and accepted in principle the idea of creating a national
autonomous entity for telecommunications. Subsequently, under the auspices
of USAID, the consultants PAGE Communication Engineers, Inc. were engaged
for project preparation. The Bank took part in drawing up the consultants'
terms of reference, which included recommendations on sector reorganization.
2.08      Arising out of the recommendations and of subsequent discussions
between the Government and the Bank, a new autonomous Government-owned
corporation Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL) was created
as from April 14, 1971. The law setting up GUATEL is summarized in Annex
1. The new entity took over all the functions of GUATEL INT and those of
DGT with the exception of the latter's responsibilities for domestic tele-
graph services which had been previously transferred in December 1970 to
Direccion General de Correos y Telegrafos (DGCT), a Government department
responsible for postal services. The decision to transfer the domestic
telegraph service to DGCT took into account the inter-relationship between
uhe postal and telegraph services and their common usage of public offices
and staff.



- 4 -
2.09      With these changes, the responsiblity for telecommunications
is now shared between the new entity GUATEL, the borrower in the proposed
Bank loan, and DGCT. -The-creation of GTJATEL has eliminated the former
fragmentation of the telephone service and should resalt in more efficient
operations arising from a better use of available resources and facilities.
Overall control of the sector continues to be the responsiblity of the
Mdinistry of Communications and Pablic Works. Coordination of sector in-
vestment under the national economic plan remains with the National Plan-
ning Council (CONAPLAN).
Existing Facilities
2.10      The existing local and long distance telephone facilities are
totally inadequate to meet the country's current requirements.  There is
an average waiting time of at least two years for telephone connections.
The long distance services which is based on use of open wire and HF radio,
rather than more modern transmission facilities, is limited in size and spread;
it is of poor quality and congested. The international facilities are similar-
ly based on the use of open wire and HF radio, and service is sub-standard.
The existing facilities are briefly described below, more detailed informa-
tion is given in Annex 2.
(a)  Local Telephone Service
2.11      Guatemala has only 14 telephone exchanges, seven in Guatemala
City and the other seven in the provincial cities of Antigua, Amatitlan,
Escuintla, Mazatenango, Quezaltenango. Villa Nueva and Zacapa. All
are automatic exchanges. Their total capacity is 42,890 lines, of which
39,000 are in Guatemala City.  The exchange equipment is filled to about
90% capacity and the cable network has no spare capacity in most of the
areas.
(b) Long Distance Service
2.12      The routes between Guatemala City and the main provincial
cities in the domestic network use carrier equipment on open wire lines;
physical circuits (VF on open wire lines) and HF connections are operated
between Guatemala City and the smaller localities. Subscriber dialing
Of calls is available between Guatemala City, Quezaltenango,  Antigua,
Amatitlan and Villa Nueva, but the number of circuits is insufficient
and there are long periods during which calls cannot be completed.
In addition, telephone service to 400 other communities is provided
t;nrough public telephone call offices from which the public can make
long distance calls; these use open wire lines or HF radio.
(c) Telex Service
2.13      Telex service in Guatemala is now limited to Guatemala City,
which has one automatic telex exchange with a capacity of 240 lines and
130 connected subscribers. A second telex exchange, with a capacity
of 20 lines, has been installed in Quezaltenango but is not yet con-
missioned.



(d) International Service
2.14     International telephone service is provided through direct
circuits to the following countries: Mexico, USA, El Salvador, Costa
Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. Open wire carrier systems are used
for circuits to El Salvador, Mexico and USA within Guatemalan territory.
From the frontier the circuits to Mexico and the USA are extended through
microwave routes. Other connections, including additional circuits to
the USA, are operated through HF radio systems. Traffic to other
countries is handled through the USA.
2.15     The quality of service is unsatisfactory, because of diffi-
culties inherent in the use of open wire and HF radio systems and because
the number of circuits is inadequate. The new COMTELCA microwave net-
work (see Annex 3), being installed to interconnect all the Central
American countries, should be commissioned by the end of 1971 and will
provide satisfactory service to those countries and to the USA. Tele-
phone traffic has been showing a normal upward trend (14% in 1970).
2.16     International telegraph and telex services are reasonably
satisfactory. In line with other countries where telephone and telex
facilities are being expanded, international telegraph traffic has been
showing a downward trend. Telex traffic has been growing rapidly (47%
in 1970).



- 6 -
3.   THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
3.01      The 1971-75 expansion program of GUATEL aims at improving
the quality of local and long distance telecommunications facilities
and to the extent possible within available resources, meeting part
of the anticipated demand for new telephone connections. This program
is estimated to cost US$23.9 million, including a foreign currency
cost of US$17.2 million.
3.02      The program comprises:
(i)  Expansion of local, long distance and international tele-
communication facilities in the 1971-75 period; this is the
project as described in detail in paragraph 3.04 below.
(ii)  Ongoing works of which the main schemes are the regional
Central American network (see Annex 3) and the telecom-
munications center building.
3.03      The program has been prepared by GUATEL with the help of
experts from ITU and the Federal Republic of Germany, using the feasi-
bility study undertaken by PAGE Communications Engineers, Inc., with
USAID assistance, and has received Government approval. The Government
has also under consideration the construction by GUATEL of an earth
satellite station at an estimated cost of Q4.0 million. Further study
of that project is required before a final decision can be taken on
its construction and financing. GUATEL would be required to obtain
the Bankts prior approval of the project, under the proposed limit of
capital expenditure that could be incurred outside the 1971-75 program
(see paragraph 6.13).
The Project
3.04      The project proposed for Bank financing comprises all the new
items in WJUATELts 1971-75 expansion program given below.
(a) Increase in the capacity of existing and new local telephone
exchanges by 35,700 lines, including 6,ooo lines in mobile
exchanges; additions to existing exchanges to conform to a
new numbering plan and to handle anticipated extra traffic.
(b) Expansion of cable distribut;lon and subscriber facilities to
provide approximately 35,000 additional direct exchange
connectioris.
(c)  Installation of microwave systems on the Puerto Barrios -
Guatemala City and Guatemala City - Quezaltenango - Retalhuleu
routes; installation of coaxial and VF cables and UHF/VHF



-7-
systems for spur routes; an addition to multiplex equipment
of about 560 channels and to open wire carrier systems for
secondary routes.
(d) Installation of automatic trunk switching equipment in about 20
cities.
Details of the project are given in Annex 5.
Cost of the Project
3.05      The estimated cost of the project is US$21.2 million, with a
foreign currency component of US$16.0 million, as shown below.
Q or US$ Million        % of Total
Items:                           Local   Foreizn    Total    Expenditure
Local Telephone Service
Local switching equipment    o.89        5.78     6.67        31.5
Local networks                1.88       5.74     7.62        36.0
Subscribers' plant            0.25       0.42     0.67         3.1
Long Distance Service
Microwave links               0.56       1.58     2.14        10.1
Trunk switching equipment    0.02        0.16     0.18         0.9
Cables and transmission
equipment                   0.83       1.52     2.35        11.1
Buildings and Land               0.28        -       0.28         1.3
Gontingencies
Physical                      0.24       0.80     1.04         4.9
Price                         0.24                0.24         1.1
Total           5.19      16.00    21.9        100.0
3.06      These cost estimates are based on recent experience in similar
works.  A contingency of 5% in the costs of foreign equipment and in
local costs has been provided to take into account possible design changes.
A further allowance of 5% on account of price changes has been included
for price increases of local expenditures. For local costs, wholesale
prices in ()atemala have shown an increase of less than 4% over four
years, while wages in the sector have shown an increase of about 6% over
the same period. No allowance has been made for price increases of
foreign costs of equipment and cables, since the recent trend in prices
for these items has been downward fallowing improved technology
and lower copper prices.



Proposed Bank Loan
3.07      A Bank loan of US$16 million is proposed to finance the total
foreign currency costs of the project. Annual capital expenditures for
the program and the project are shown in Annex 5.
Procurement
3.08      All goods financed by the Bank would be procured through
international competitive bidding, with the exception of additions of
switching equipment to the existing exchanges. These additions, which
GUATEL has to procure from Siemens, the original supplier, for reason
of compatibility with the existing equipment, are estimated to cost
US$1 million.  Guatemala is a member of the Central American Common
Market and suppliers in these countries will be allowed a local prefe-
rence of 15% of the c.i.f. price or 50% of the customs duty whichever is lower.
Disbursement
3.09      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the CIF costs
of imported equipment. The estimated schedule of disbursements has
been made in accordance with the project construction schedule (see
Annex 6) and is given in Annex 7. Since the project will not satisfy
all the existing demand, any savings in the loan should be made avail-
able, after consultation with the Bank, for the purchase of additional
items similar to those already procured under the loan.
Project Execution
3.10      GUATEL has the necessary planning, engineering and supervisory
capability to execute and operate the project.
3.11      Construction of the project would be carried out mainly by
the contractors under GUATELts supervision, except for:
- simple installations, such as open wire carrier
systems and laying of cable ducts, which would
be done by GUATEL's staff;
- additions and transfer of existing switching
equipment, which would be done by GUATEL's staff
with the assistance of the contractors' personnel
and the experts to be retained (see paragraph 5.o4).
Contractual arrangements would provide for initial maintenance and the
training of Guatemalan staff by the suppliers.
3.12      The construction schedule for the main items in the project
is given in Annex 6. Installation and commissioning of new equipment
would be completed by the end of 1974. The planned transfer of
switching and transmission equipment to new locations would be completed
by mid-1975.



-9-
4. JUSTIFITCATION
4.01      The inadequacies of telephone services in Guatemala are out-
lined in paragraph 2.10. The project aims at improving the quality
of the local and long distance services and at providing additional
facilities to meet a portion of the demand for new service. The limits
of available financial and technical resources do not permit a program
meeting full demand.
4.02      It is expected that the installed capacity of exchanges in
Guatemala City will increase by 70% to a total of about 66,000 lines
in 1975. Over the same period the installed capacity of exchanges
outside the capital will increase by 22(g to a total of about 12,600
lines. The spread of telephones in the country will thereby be somewhat
improved. Nevertheless, the waiting list will not be reduced on com-
pletion of the project, even estimating a low growth rate of 6% in
demand.
4.03      The long distance facilities included in the project, together
with those of the CCMTELCA network for domestic long distance service,
will for the first time provide an adequate quality of service. This,
in turn, will make an inportant contribution to the integration of the
country's economic and administrative activities.
Demand for Local Service
4.04      Delay in initiating a new expansion program has resulted in
a very slow development of telephone service since 1967 and a high un-
satisfied demand. As of the end of 1970 the subscriber waiting list,
which is well maintained and reliable (new applications are checked
against it to avoid double-counting), had 35,500 applicants, 77% of them
in Guatemala City. The position of existing and forecast demand for
telephone connections and the avalability of facilities are shown in
Annex 8.
4.05      The demand at the end of 1970 was made up of 38,000 lines in
operation, with 32,000 applicants on the waiting list (only 90% of the
registered applicants were taken into account). Two rates of growth
were used in making the forecasts -- one of 10% per year, which is about
the average actual growth in most developing countries, and another of 6%
to show a very conservative estimate.
4.06      With a growth rate of 6%, the total demand in 1975 would reach
94,000 lines, again leaving a waiting list of 31,000 at that time --
almost as high as at present. With the more normal 10% growth, the
waiting list would be much higher at about 50,000.
Demand for Long Distance Service
4.07      Due to considerable congestion and poor service on the main
routes and to the limited coverage of the existing network, the available
traffic data are unreliable and inadequate as a basis for estimating



- 10 -
future circuit requirements. GUATEL has therefore worked out the
circuit requirements on a route-by-route basis, using the
accepted CCITT formulae that are intended to estimate the circuits
under such circumstances; these calculations are based on number of
subscribers, economic factors and community of interest.
Least-Cost Solution
!L.o8    Selecting the least-cost solution to meet given requirements
involves making the correct technological decisions on the basic structure
of the network and optimizing the size and timing of the main items as
the network expands. In Guatemala the choices have been made by using
techniques already established in other countries.
4.09      The fundamental decisions taken under the expansion program --
to standardize the common control switching equipment and to adopt a
new signalling system and a new national routing plan -- are sound and
provide the framework for the least-cost expansion of the telecom-
munications system.  In the expansion of the long distance network,
the chosen microwave link represents the least-cost solution over the
long term on the Puerto Barrios-Guatemala City -QWezaltenango -
Retalbuleu route. Similarly, coaxial systems have been selected for
routes where there are many places to be served now and in the future.
The choice of VHF or UHF radio link systems has been made depending on
the ultimate number of circuits required on the route in each case.
Internal Rate of Return
4.1lo     The internal financial rate of return of the project at present
tariffs is 17% (see Annex 9). A sensitivity analysis was carried out
which showed that the rate of return is between 15% and 19% for variations
of 10% in construction costs, operating costs and revenue.
4'.1     With demand for telephone service exceeding supply, prices
for the service do not reflect the actual value to the users: in
Guatemala City a right to a telephone ine can be sold for about Q800,
Ahich is eight times the price GUATEL charges.  Therefore, the economic
benefits from the project are expected to be higher than shown by the
internal financial rate of return.



- 11 -
5.  THL BORF)ER
5.01      The role in the sector of Empresa Guatemalteca de Teleco-
municaciones (GUATEL), the borrower in the proposed loan, is given in
paragraph 2.09. GUATEL's structure ana responsibilities are set out
in the GUATEL Law (see Annex 1).  While the juridical organization is
satisfactory, many of the problems connected with the recent merging
of the entities to form GUATEL still have to be solved.
Organization and Yanagement
5.02      GUATEL's organization is show-n in Annex 10.  The Board consists
of five directors: the Minister of Cormminications and Public Works as chair-
man, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and two
persons appointed by the President of the Republic. The Board of Directors
and the management are vested with the necessary powers to operate the en-
tity efficiently.
5.03      GUATEL's general manager, appointed by and responsible to the
Board of Directors, is in charge of all the administrative, financial and
technical activities of GUATEL. Under the general manager is a technical
manager responsible for operations, an administrative manager in charge of
personnel, accounting, data processing and subscriber relations, an assis-
tant manager, a technical advisor, and a planning unit--the latter responsible
for project planning, preparation and execution.  GUATEL's management staff
have been appointed from the staffs of DGT and GUATEL INT. DGT's technically
qualified and experienced staff, together with GUATEL's young but conpetent
staff, should enable GUATEL to build up a good team capable of developing the
telecommunications sector to meet the country's needs.
5.04      GUATEL's engineers have the necessary technical conpetence but
lack installation experience. However, three experts from the Bundespost
(Germany) are advising GUATEL on the planning of local exchanges and networks,
and four ITU experts are advising on switching, transmission, tariffs and
traffic. With this assistance and the use of contractor personnel for instal-
lation of major equipment, the staff would be able to handle the work satis-
factorily. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that GUATEL will
retain qualified experts during the project period to assist in work related
to local exchange systems.
Staff and Training
5.05      Staff details are given in Arnex 11.  As of April 1971, GUATEL's
staff totalled 1,100 or about 24 per 1,000 telephones, which is reasonable.
GUATEL's management agreed during negotiations that this staff ratio will
be maintained.



- 12 -
5.06      GUATEL recruits its staff from universities and vocational
schools and has had no difficulty in filling vacancies.  Training in
telecoumiinications is provided by- equipment suppliers or through fellow-
ships in developed countries   One engineer and a few technicians are
being trained in Costa Rica for the Central American regional network.
GUATEL intends using the training facilities of the regional telecom-
munications school in El Salvador, which will be set up under UNDP with
ITU as executing agency, as from 1973.
Accounting and Auditing
5.07      DGT's accounting system was inadequate; on the other hand, GUATEL
INT's accounting system was satisfactory and its accounting staff well trained.
GUATEL's accounting system would be a contirriation of GUATEL INT's accounting
system, with changes made in DGT's old accounting arrangements to bring the
latter into conformity. With the availability of experienced GUATEI INT staff,
no difficulty is anticipated in effecting a smooth transition.
5.08      Both DGT and GUATEL INT were subject to the Government audit
(Contraloria de Cuentas), which was restricted to control of payments,
and GUATEL is also subject to this audit. The GUATEL Law gives the Board
of Directors power to retain auditing services from legally authorized
national firms. During negotiations, GUATEL agreed to engage independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank for future annual audits and to submit
the auditors report within four months after the end of each fiscal year.
Tariffs
5.09      The GUATEL Law empowers the Board to set tariffs for its services
on the recommendations from the general manger. International tariffs and
the related participation are established by agreement between GUATEL and the
foreign entities.
5.10      The present tariff level generates revenue sufficient to cover the
cost of operations (including depreciation and interest), a reasonable part
of expansion, and transfers to Government (see paragraDh 6.19). A suimnary
of the basic tariffs with proposed amendments is given in Annex 22.
5.11      GUATEL's tariff structure has some weaknesses.  Government subscribers
are given unjustified concessions in tariffs. A monthly flat rental is paid
by Government at the residential rate, considerably lower than non-residential
rates. In addition, the Government does not pay for either long distance or
local calls. After the negotiati-ons, GUATEL informed the Bank that effective
from January 1,1972, the tariffs will be changed to eliminate these concessions
and from that time the Government will be charged the business tariff.
5.12      The fixed rentals for telephone subscribers included 400 phone
calls per month. This number of free calls is high, particularly for
residential subscribers for whom the lower rental is based only on lower



- 13 -
use. Furthermore, with the introduction of long distance dialing using
the same pulses to charge local and long distance calls, it becomes  iportant
that an unduly high number of free calls in local rentals does not result
in an unduly high free use of long distance facilities. After negotiations
GUATEL informed the Bank that as from January 1, 1972 the number of free
calls will be reduced.



- 14 -
6. FINANCES
General
6.01      Although the incorporatlon of GUATEL took effect from April 14,
1971, the merger of DGT and GUATEL INT into the new entity will require a
transitional period which should be comrleted as of December 31, 1971. By
that time it is expected that GUA'TEL will have taken over the assets and
liabilities of the previous entities and have full financial autonomy.  DGT Is
past financial statements as reconstructed by the Bank show a weak perform-
ance with low rates of return, almost no growth of gross fixed a-sets, anc2.
a reliance on funds from the national budget.  GUATEL INT, on the other hand,
has shown a strong financial performance with high rates of return and a rapid
growth of gross fixed assets. Over the period 1968 to 1970, GUATEL INT
contributed about Q1.8 million to the national budget. The difference in
the operating results of the two entities is mainly because GUATEL INT has
efficiently operated the most profitable part of the services without sharing
its revenues with DGT, whose revenues were prejudiced by tariff concessions
granted to Government users. The financial forecasts for the new entity--
GUATEL--are satisfactory and show an adequate profit level over the project
period, with earnings sufficient to finance 32% of the construction program
after profit participation by the Government. The future financial position
is projected to be sound.
Past Finance6 - DGT
6.02      DGT's finances were incorporated in the national budgetary system,
the accounts of which are based on a cash concept. However, the Bank made
an attempt to reconstruct DGT's accounts back to 1968 by applying commercial
accounting principles, using the available financial information and reason-
able assunptions agreed with responsible officers. Notional Income Statements,
Balance aleets and Source and Applications of Fund Statements are given in
Annexes 12 to 14. The principal features of the statements are shown below.
Year ending December 31:                1968   1969   1970
Increase in Gross Fixed Assets              %          2      1       1
Net Income                           :Q thousands    60    591    466
Operating Ratio                             %         87     71      77
Estimated Rate of Return                    %        2.4    5.9    5.3
Net Requirements Met by Government  Q thousands   587   (135)    76
6.03      Over the past years DGT7s operating results have been poor, due
partly to tariff concessions granted the Government and to lack of financial
autonomy and of sound commercial organization. Operating ratios have been
high and rates of return low. The very limited development which has taken
place has been possible only with the aid of Government contributions. The
value of net plant in operation has been declining.



- 15 -
6.o4      The original cost of DGT's gross plant in operation, which at the
end of 1970 was Q20 million, has been financed mainly from Government con-
tributions and local bondissues. DGT's estimated capitalization as of
December 31, 1970, was as follows:
(Q or US$ million)
Equity                                 10.7
Iong-Term Debt
5% Local Bonds                        2.8
Total Capitalization                   13.5
The Equity is a balancing figure between the estimated total of net fixed
and current assets and the total of long-term and other liabilities. Long-
term debt consists of a series of local bonds issued between 1946 and 1964,
mainly for financing automatic switching equipment. Redemption of the bonds
will be carpleted in 1974.
Past Finances - GUATEL INT
6.05      Actual Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and Sources and Applica-
tions of Fund Statements for GUATEL INT for the years 1968 to 1970 are shown
in Annexes 15, 16 and 17. Some financial indicators are shown below.
Year ending December 31               1968   1969   1970
Increase in Gross Fixed Assets      %          44      62     87
Net Income                    Q Thousands   1,017  1,355  1,360
Operating Ratio                     %           L7     44     50
Rate of Return                      %           62    h4      39
Debt/Equity Ratio                            -/100   8/92  39/61
6.o6      Since 1967 GUATEL INT has increased its gross fixed assets by an
average of 63% per annum. Due to the high level of demand for international
telecommunication services and the introduction of new facilities, net income
increased from QO.7 million in 1967 to Q1.4 million in 1970.  By efficiently
operating the most profitable services or the teLecomnmunamcations sector and
in the absence of any revenue-sharing arrangement with iMT, GUATEL INT was
able to show extremely high rates of retun-. GUATEL TNT has proved to be a
steady soarce of income for the Government; in the three-year period to 1970,
in accordance with the obligations under its statute, the entity transferred
Q .8 million to the Government as a share of net income.
6.07      GUATEL INT's gross plant, including plant under construction,
was valued at Q5.4 million as of December 31, 1970. Depreciation rates
have been kept at a high level; consequently, the value of net plant
(Q4.9 million) must be considered as conservative. GUATEL INT's current
position as of December 31, 1970, showed weakness; however, more than half
of the current liabilities consisted of the share of profits due the Govern-
ment for the financial year, payable in monthly instalments over the succeed-
ing financial year.



- 16 -
6.o8      GUATEL INT's capitalization as of December 31, 1970, was as
follows:
(Q or US$ million)
Equity                              2.6
Reserves                            0.5
Long-Term Debt
Suppliers     0.3
CABEI         1.5                1.8
Total Capitalization                4.9
Debt/equity ratio was 39/61.  Long-term debt consisted of supplier credits
from Siemens for telex equipment, to be repaid by 1972, and the drawn-down
portion (Ql.5 million) of a Q2.7 million loan from the Central American
Ban-k for Economic Integration (CABEI) to finance the Guatemalan part of the
Central American regional network.
Transitional Financial Arrangements
6.09      Although GUATEL was legally constituted as of April 14, 1971, in
order to avoid changes in the 1971 national budget the law provides that
until December 31, 1971, the revemne of the former DGT's operations will
continue to accrue to the national budget. Similarly, the budgetary appro-
priations for related expenses will be made in favor of GUATEL. The new
entity will have full financial autonony from January 1, 1972.
6.10      The law provides for the transfer to GUATEL of all the assets of
GUATEL INT and of DGT's fixed assets and stores; however, no provision has
been made for the transfer of the current and long-term liabilities of the
merged entities and DGT's accounts receivable. During the negotiations the
Government confirmed that all the assets and liabilities of the merging
entities will be transferred. The financial projections have taken this
into account.
6.11      GUATEL is presently recording and valuing the fixed assets it is
taking over.  The final total of accounts receivable and current liabilities
for the former DGT's operations will not be known until the end of 1971.
During negotiations, GUATEL agreed to submit to the Bank no later than April
30, 1972, an audited statement as of January 1, 1972, with provisional figures
for assets if necessary and to complete the inventory and valuation of assets
no later than October 31, 1972.
Financing Plan
6 12      GUATEL's capital investment and additional working capital require-
ments for the 1971-75 period and the sources from which they would be met



- 17 -
are summarized below. Forecasts of sources and applications of funds are
given in Annex 20.
Q or US$     %
million
Requirements
1971-75 Program                 23.9         77
Future Program                   4 ..6       15
Working Capital                  2.7          8
Total Requirements        31.2       100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation        19.1
Less: Debt Service               9.0
Net Internal Cash Generation 10.1         32
Borrowings
CABEI                            2.3          8
Proposed IBRD Loan              16.0         51
Future Program                   2.8          9
Total Borrowings                21.1         _
Total Sources             31.2        100
6.13      In addition to the 1971-75 program, the financing plan includes
Q4.6 million as part of a future program expected to commence in 1975 and
Q2.7 million for the necessary increase in working capital. To ensure that
no delays occur in the Bank-financed program, GUATEL agr-ed during negotiations
that no ma,or investment (including the proposed earth sa ellite station),
involving in any one year capital expenditure in excess of uS$600,000
additional to that included in the 1971-75 program, would be undertaken without
a financing plan agreed with the Bank.
6.14      The financing plan includes two loans already contracted from
CABEI for the remaining works of the Central American regional scheme; the
respective terms are 14 years, including three years' grace at 7-1/2%
interest; and eight years, including one year's grace at 5-3/4% interest.
Also included in the financing plan is a part of a future borrowing to finance
GUATEL's continued expansion after 1975.
6.15      Temporary finance would be reqaired to meet the high level of
local expenditure in 1972 and 1973 for the construction program. The
borrowing has been estimated at about Q3.0 million. However, arising
out of the recent change in tariffs (see paragraph 5.11-5.12).the sum required
may be lower. The amount borrowed would be repaid in 1974 and 1975 before the
end of the program. The Government has already given assuranmes in writing to
the Bank that these funds would be made available to GUATEL. In the financial
forecasts a loan from the Central Bank at 6% per annum has been assumed.



- 18 -
Future Finances
6.16       Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1971-77 are
given in Annexes 18 and 19; related notes are in Annex 21. Jalient features
of the accounts for the program period are shown below.
Year ending December 31:       1971     1972     1973      1974    1975
Net Income          Q million      2.2      2.0      2.1       2.8
Operat-ing Ratio        %         61       63       61        57      51!
Rate of Return          %          8        8       10        11      K
Debt/Equity Ratio                19/81    29/71    48/52    49/51   52/Y8
Current Ratio           %          0.8      1.3      1.1       1.2     6.6
6.17       With the introduction of additional facilities which GUATEL is now
installing and those which will come into operation before the end of the
program, telephone revenues are expected to increase on average by 17% per
annum. Telex revenue, which has almost tripled over the past three years,
is forecast to grow at an average of 24% per annum.  Some slight decline
is estimated in international telegraph revenue.
6.18       Operating expenses (excluding depreciation) are projected to in-
crease by about 11% per annum. This would cover the cost of wage increases,
reasonable additional staff requirements and other operating expenses arising
out of expanded operations. On the basis of the forecasts it is estimated
that in 1972 GUATEL will have an operating ratio of 63; this would be satis-
factory. Thereafter, with inproved total revenues, the ratio is expected to
imrprove to about 54 in 1975.
6.19       GUATEL is not required to pay taxes, but the law obliges the
entity to set aside 45% of annual net profits for distribution to the
Government and a further 10% for staff bonus, severance pay, pension and
retirement reserves.  For the purpose of determining the funds that GUATEL
would have available for financing the program, these items have been
treated as a deduction from revenues in arriving at net earnings. On this
basis, GUATEL's rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation
would be 8% in 1972 and about 10-11% per annum during the remainLng years
of the program. To ensure a level of cash generation necessary for the
investment, GUATEL agreed to maintain tariffs at a level to achieve a rate
of return of at least 10% in 1973 and thereafter. It would be appropriate
to review the rate of return at the end of 1975 in the light of future
investment needs.
6.20       GUATEL's overall financial position is generally expected to be
satisfactory during the project period. At the end of 1975 the debt/equity
ratio would be 52/4f8; this would still leave a margin for further borrowing.
Although GUATEL's estimated overall current position at the end of 1971
indicates some weakness, cash should be adequate since the Government's share
of the profits for 1971, which forms a large part of current liabilities,
is payable only by monthly installments in 1972. After 1971 the position
should improve and in 1975 the current position should be quite satisfactory.



19
6.21      GUATEL's debt service coverage is forecast to be satLsfactogY,
However) to help ensure future vi,abiility, GUATEL should not undertake any
long-term debt without prior agreement with the Banlk unless its debt se-rice
is covered 1.5 times by the net revenues of the preceding fiscal year or a
later 12-month period prior to the incurrence of the debt.



- 20 -
7.  AGREMNTS REACHED AND REOCCMO DA-ION
7.01       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  During the project period qualified experts will be retained
to assist in the wNtork related to  oca] exchange systems
(paragraph 5.CL );
(b) The staff ratio per 1,000 telephones will be maintained
(paragraph 5.05)5
(c)  During execution of the program additional major capital
expenditures will not be incurred without a financing
plan agreed with the Bank (paragraph 6.13); and
(d)  Tariffs will be maintained at such level as to achieve a
rate of return of at least 10% in 1973 and thereafter
(paragraph 6.19).
7.02       With the above indicated assurances, the proposed project is
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of TJS$16 million for a term of 20 years,
including a five-year grace period.
November 12, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
GUATEMALA
11PRESA GUATEIALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Important Features of the Law Establishing GUATEL
General Provisions
The Law that establishes and regulates Fmpresa Guatemalteca de Tele-
comunicaciones (GUATFIL) was enacted April 14, 1971. The new entity is owned
by the Government and is autonomous, with juridical personality and full
power to acquire and dispose of assets and to contract obligations. GUATEL
is resoonsible for providing all telecommunication services in Guatemala;
the Government in turn guarantees the operating autonomy necessary for GUA-
TEL to carry out its tasks, especially those concerned with internal organ-
ization, personnel administration and setting up the tariff system.
Organization
The Board of Directors of GUATEL consists of five members: the Min-
ister of Communications and Public Works, who serves as chainman; the
Minister of the Interior; the Minister of Foreign Affairs; and two per-
sons appointed by the President of the i'Zepublic. The management consists
of a general manager and an assistant manager, both of whom are appointed
by the Board.  They attend the Board meetings as advisors without voting
rights.
The Board of Directors establishes the functions and regulates the
administrative organization of GUATEL and is responsible for the overall
planning, management and coordination of its activities. The Board's
principal duties are to (a) approve the annual report, balance sheets and
srofit-and-loss accounts; (b) approve tariffs submitted to it by the man-
agement; (c) finalize plans for raising domestic and foreign loans; (d)
approve staff trairing and technical assistance programs; and (e) approve
standards for telecommunication services.
As GiJATEL's chief executive, the general manager directs all of its
technical and administrative activitiee.  His main duties are to (a) en-
sure that the GUATEL Law is properly iraolemented; (b) represent the entity
legally; (c) appoint and dismiss persomael whose appointment is not the
resp)onsibility of the Board of Directors; and (d) submit for the Board's
consideration draft programs and reports on GUATEL's yearly operations.
Financial System
GUTATEiL's assets consist of the following:
(1) The assets of GUATEL INT and those of DGT and the Telephone
Project group, as shown in the respective inventories.
(2) The vajlue of any assets tranoferred to GUATEL by the Govern-
ment for development of the sector, and the assets acquired
by the entity for that purpose.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
(3)  Profits from the provision of the telecommunication services.
The net profits of GUATEL for each year are allocated as follows:
45% to the Government, 40% to GUATEL, 5% to the contingency reserve, 5
to the severance pay, pension and retirement reserve fund, and 5% for dis-
tribution among the staff in accordance with a special regulation. The
financial year corresponds to the calendar year.
All obligations legally contracted by GUATEL are guaranteed by the
Government.
GUATEL will establish an accounting system suitable for its require-
ments and apply separate cost accounting for each telecommunication service.
In the first quarter of each year, a balance sheet and profit-and-loss ac-
count for the preceding year's operations will be prepared and published.
All accounts of governmental agencies not paid when due are to be
deducted from the Government's percentage of the profits, subject to prior
authorization of the Office of the Controller General (Contraloria General
de la Nacion).
GUATEL is exempt from all taxes and duties.
Audit and Control
The Board of Directors will appoint an internal auditor, to be respon-
sible for the internal inspection, audit and control of GUATEL's financial
and accounting operations.
The external audit will be made by the Controller's Office (Contra-
loria de Cuentas) for matters falling within its purview.
The Board of Directors may order special audits whenever they are
deemed desirable for better perfornance of GUATEL.
Transitional Provisions
As of April 14, 1971, the effective date of the GUATEL Law, the entity
was obliged to take over the staff employed by GUATEL  STT, DGT and the Tele-
phone Project group.
During FY1971, income from telephone services, shown under the heading
of t"National Telephone Revenues" in the national budget, will continue to
accrue.  In like manner, expendi.tres for DGT and the Telephone Project group
and for interest on and service of the national telephone debt will be paid
from the budget.
November a, 1971



ANT4NEX 2
Page 1 of ) paoe,
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TE.LECOMUNICACiONES (GUATEL)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
(as of end of 1970)
1) Local Telephone Services
December 31                 1966    1967    1968    1969    1970
Connected Direct Exchange       30,614  33,005  34,503  36,930  38,003
Lines
As of December 31, 1970, the total number of telephones in Guatemala was
about 46,700.
Automatic Exchanges in Service
Guatemala City   7
Provinces        7
Capacity       Connected Direct
Guatemala City                        of Exchanges       Exchange Lines
Centro                                   17,000              15,287
Tivoli                                    8,000               7,,413
Guarda Viejo                              6,000               5,308
La Parroquia                              2,500               2,401
Guadalupe                                 2,500               2,167
La Reformita                              2,000               1,882
Vista Hermosa                             1,000                 966
Total      39,000              35,424
Provinces
Amatitlan                                   400                 261
Antigua                                     600                 561
Escuintla     -400                                              189
Mazatenango                                 200                 172
Quezaltenango                             2,000               1,160
Villa Nueva                                  90                  76
Zacapa                                      200                 160
Total       3,890               2,579
All the local automatic switching equipment is of Siemens type.
It is a step-by-step direct-conrtrol system using large capacity selectors.
The present numbering plan is of the open type and the number of digits
varies with the cities;



ANNE 2
Page 2 of 5 pages
1. In Vi`llaNueva- 2 digits
2.  In Amatitlan, Antigua, Escuintla, Mazatenango
and Zacapa - 3 dgifts
3. In  Q.ezaltenazigo - 4 digits
I In Guatemala City - 5 digits for Centro, Tivoli
and C-uarda Vie-jo: 6 dig-ts for the others.
All the exchanges use a decad-c signalling system with rigid ir.-
pulse limits and direct control facilities.  These do not offer enough f'-e  -
bility for the spread of nationa !unk dialing.
A few authorities (railways and civil aviation) and private com-
panies also provide local and long distance services for their own use.
The main ones are:
-   Ferrocarriles Internacionales de Centroamerica,
with about 30 telephones in Puerto Barrios;
-   Corporacion Centroamericana de Servicios de
Navegacion Aerea (COCESNA), with headquarters
in Honduras, providing 24 channels  ¶HF/VHF links
connecting the capitals of Central America;
-   United Fruit Company (Bananera) with a total of
about 600 connected telephones at Bananera and
Puerto Barrios;
-  Asociacion de Productores de Cafe de Guatemala,
which has a mobile radio service for internal
communication within the Association and also
for connection with the public network.
Licenses are obtained from the Government on an annual basis for
these private networks.
The public local networks in Guatemala City and the provinces are
in poor condition. Neither traffic flow nor quality of service is system-
atically measured and recorded. In Guatemala City, the trunks between local
exchanges and those to interurban and special services use a three-wire
system which limits flexibility in cable planning.  The local networks have
been saturated since 1967.  Although distribution planning is good, execution
of the work is not always carried out in accordance with the planning.
2) Long Distance Service
The present long distance facilities between the main cities are
carrier equipment over open wire lines. The main routes are:



AME,X 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
Routes                     Number of Channels
Guatemala-Quezaltenango                      15
Guatemala-Antigua                            12
Guatemala-Escuintla                           3 1/
Guatemala-Panaj achel                         3
Guatemala- Zacapa                             3 2/
As of December 31, 1970, the total number of circuit kilo,ometers
was about 8,600.
An HF radio telephone network operates in the 2.5 MHz to 7.8 MHz
range with its central transmitting station located in the Finca de Aurora
building near the International airport. It provides service between Guatemala
City and 15 cities in the provinces: Coatepeque, Coban, Chamiperico,
Chiquimula, Flores, Livingston, Matias de Galvez, Mazatenango, MXelchor de
Mencos, Panzos, Poptun, Retalhuleu, Salama, Tecun Uman and Puerto Barrios.
HF circuits are also available between:
Champerico to Tecun Utman and Coatepeque
Retalhuleu to Mazatenango and Chiquimula
Salama to Melchor de iv4encos
Panzos to Coban and Puerto Barrios
Poptun to Livingston and Flores
Matias de Galvez to Melchor de Mencos
Santa Elena to Flores and La Libertad
All these HF radio circuits have a poor transmission quality.
Subscriber dialing through use of an automatic trunk exchange
exists between Guatemala City and Quezaltenango Antigua, Amatitlan and
Villa Nueva. A 13-position manual switchboard in Guatemala City handles
both national and international calls. Toll manual switchboards are also
installed in Quezaltenango, Escuintla, Mazatenango and Zacapa.
Besides the above, there are 408 public telephone offices
providing manual service in the country's 22 departments, as shown below:
1/   Of which one is also used between Guatemala and San Jose
_/   Of w-hich one is also used betweer Guatemala and Chiquimula



ANNEX 2
Page i of 5 pages
Department (Capital?            Telephone Offices
Guatemala                                    22
Alta Verapaz (Coban)                          9
Baia Verapaz (Salama)                         9
5himaltenango                               112
Chiqufiula                                   15
Zscuintla                                    19
E1 Progreso                                  31
Huehuetenango                                30
Izabel (Puerto Barrios)                      16
Jalapa                                        8
Jutiapa                                      20
Quezaltenango                                33
EJ1 Quiche (Santa Cruz)                      11
Peten (Flores)                               11
Retalhuleu                                   11
Secatepeque (Antigua)                        16
San Marcos                                   34
Santa Rosa (Cuilapa)                         24
Solola                                       25
Suchitepeque (Mazatenango)                   15
Totonicapan                                   8
Zacapa                                       29
Total      )408
3) Telex Service
Guatemala City has a 240-line capacity exchange, with 130 sub-
scribers, and  quezaltenango has a 20-line capacity exchange which is not
yet in service. Shortage of the local network has precluded connection
for more subscribers.
4) International Service
International telephone service is provided through direct cir-
cuits on carrier equipment and HFS radio to: Mexico, USA, El Salvador,
Honduras, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Panama. Circuits to Mexico and
El Salvador are on carrier equipment over open wire lines in the Guatemalan
territory, while those to the UiSA are partly on carrier equipment and partly
on HF radio.  Circuits or EF radio to the USA are connected to Jacksonville,
Florida, whence the traffic is routed to all places in the USA.
The commissioning of the Central American microwave network
(see Annex 3) wTill increase the number of international circuits and
improve transmission quality. The following table gives the present and
future situation:



-MrE EX 2
Pag'e , of   pages
Number of Circuits
;resent Situation    COMTELCA Network
Countries                  Carrier  HF Radio         Microwave
Mexico                        8          -                14
USA                           9          3                22
El S4avador                   7          -                40
Ho,ndlras                     -          3                19
Costa Rica                    -          4                21
Nicaragua                     -          3                19
Panama                        -          1                 3
Nine international telegraph and 14 international telex circuits
are now in use. These are provided by facilities similar to those for the
telephone service and will be diverted to the CO=ICA network when it is
completed.
November 8, 1971






ANN EX 3
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Central American Microwave Network
Guatemala is involved in a project with four other Central American
countries for improving telecommunication services within the region. A
regional telecommunication commission (COMTELCA) has been created and made
responsible for the planning and coordination of procurement, installation,
supervision and commissioning of this regional network. San Jose (Costa
Rica) is the headquarters of COMTELCA's secretariat. However, each country
is responsible for its part of the network.
The project comprises the installation of a high-capacity microwave
system to provide stable high-quality circuits between Guatemala City, San
Salvador, Tegucigalpa  (Honduras), Managua (Nicaragua) and San Jose (Costa
Rica), with extension links to the Mexican border from Guatemala and to
the Panamanian border from San Jose.  The project also provides for ex-
tending the national network in some of the countries, including Guatemala.
The project aims at providing a total of 1,040 circuits.  Its cost of
US$12 million is being financed by the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration (CABEI) and supplier credits.
Contracts have been signed with the Nippon Electric Company (NEC) for
construction of the network's main backbone and a few national links along
the international route. These contracts include not only supply and in-
stallation of equipnent, but also training for engineers and technicians.
One engineer and five technicians from Guatemala are presently taking a 6-
month training program in Costa Rica. Two engineers from each country
will attend a 2-month training program in Japan.
The scheduled completion date of the long distance network was July
1971, but a short delay is expected in commissioning the Guatemalan part
of the network.
In the first phase of the project, the circuits in Guatemala will be
connected to a 16-position switchboard to be installed in the new GUATEL
Telecommunications Center, and will be handled partly on a semi-automatic
and partly on a manual basis. In the second phase, automatic operation
is scheduled for June 1973.
Part of COMTELCA facilities in Guatemala will be used to handle
national long distance traffic. Some of the national circuits will be
provided by new 24-channel VHF links to be established on the following
routes:
Guatemala-Calderas-Raxquin-Quezaltenango
Guatemala-San Vicente-Escuintla
The latter will be extended from Escuintla to San Jose by a 12-channel
carrier on overhead line.
November 8, 1971



A,unEX 4
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES
International Traffic Statistics 1969 - 1970
I. Telephone Traffic
Outgoing Traffic                                       Incoming Traffic
1969                     1970            Mirute Increase            1970
Calls     Minutes        Calls      Minutes           %            Calls     Minutea
Zones
uanited States and Carada               27,876     176,631        32,071     199,760           13          37,589     285,097
Central America, Panama
Mexico                              106,414     644,922       120,026     732,638           14          27,367     177,246
Caribbean                                  594       3,345           743       4,199           25             859       5,121
South America                              770       4,330         1,199       6,478           50             988       5,825
E=rope                                     909       5,033         1,254       7,381           47           1,288       9,004
Africa                                      19          95             6          25          -73              -          -
Asia                                        91         728           168       1,221            68             80         591
Oceania                                     10          67            18         117           75              -          -
Total               136,683      835,421      155,345     951,809                       68.171      482,884
IT.  Telegraph Traffic
Outgoing Traffic                                      Incoming Traffic
1969                       1970            Word Increase             1970
MeBsage     Words          Messages      Words           °|          Messages     Words
_one s
United States and Canada                56,716    1,445,402         52,712   1,358,967         - 6            65,245    2,010,233
Central America, Panama
ar.d Mexico                          54,744    1,227,101         53,190   1,192,530         - 3            45,233      978,24-
Caribbean                                2,736       66,188          2,835      71,-53           8             3,648        93,C57
Soiuth America                           9,415      249,239          9,701     25? 762           3             9,956       33?.7^
Rfaxrpe                                 23,146      515,044         22,925     524,912           2            25,042      6c3,2_
Afri.a                                     428        9,510             34         8,.         -90                43         2.t£,
Asia                                     2,701       60,086          2,643      61,'42,          2             3,426       97;756
Oceania                                     24        1,712            115       2,567          73               176          , 'si
Middle East                                 -           -              560      11,070          -                570
Maritime and Local                                   74,200          4,383      77,759           5             1161_.
Total                  ,843      648,42         149,048   3,59,9 44         -2             154250     4,§2771
III. Telex Traffic
Outgoing Traffic                                            Incorm-,    Traffic
1969                     1970            Minute Increas                170
Calls     Minutes        Calls      Minutes                             Calls     Minutes
Zones
United States and Canada                 6,985      34,427         9,293      55,CA6            32              10,42         51,298
Central America, Panama
and Mexico                            2,195      12,934         3,641      18,093            50               2,691        11,771
Caribbean                                  941         329           235         801           143                 148           507
South America                              300       1,821           800       3,920           115                 659         3,082
Europe                                   2,495      10,141         4,169      17,753            75               4, ,66       17,448
Africa                                       6          21             2           6           -71                  43           146
-Asia                                      864        5,151        1,378        7,768           50                  774        5,216
Oceania                                     -           -              1           3            -                     1            3
Middle East                                 -           -                                                            5 1          22
Total                13,816       63,924       19,524       93,805                                         8 8908493
November 9, 1971



-age   o O   pago:
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMENICACIONES (GUATEL)
THE PROJECT
A. LOCAL SERVICES
1.        GUATEL plans to install 35,700 automatic lines during the project
period, as shown below.
Mobile Exchanges
Guatemala City: 6,000 lines in 1972-73
La Refonrita         3,000
Vista Hermosa        2,000
Monte Verde          1,000
Standard Equipment
Guatemala City: 21,000 lines in 1973-74
Centro               5,000
Tivoli               5,000
Guarda Viejo         4,000
La Reformita         4.,000
Vista Hermosa        3,000
Provinces: 8,700 lines in 1973-74
Antigua           1,000     Jutiapa                200
Puerto Barrios    1,000     San Jose               200
Escuintla           800     Salama                 200
Mazatenango         800     Villa Nueva            200
Retalhuleu          800     Santa Rosa             200
Amatitlan           600     Barberena              200
Zacapa              600     Champerico             100
Coatepeque          600     San Juan Secatepeque  100
Chiquimula          500     San Lucas Secatepeque 100
Coban               200     Esquipulas             100
Mixco               200
Following comimissioning of the standard equipm.ent in La Reformita and
Vista Hermosa, the mobile exchanges will be transferred to Atlantida and
Zone 5 in Guatemala City.



ANNE 5
Page 2 o? H p2ges
The number of direct exchange lines is expected to  ncrease as
follows:
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Additional lines           1,073     497   1,000   2,000   9,100  12,000   4.?00
Total connected direct
exchange lines         38,003  38,500  39,500  41,500  50,600  62,600  66.900
% increase in D.E.L.        2.9     1.3     2.6      5.1    21.9    23.7      6.9
GUTATEL has decided on common switching equipment and has adopted a new national
numbering plan and a new signalling system. The new numbering plan will give
a 6-digit number to all subscribers in Guatemala. The new signalling system
will be of the R 2 type, as recommended by the CCITT. To fit in with the new
plans, all equipment using the present decadic signalling system in Amatitlan,
tntigua, Mazatenango, Escuintla, Puerto San Jose, Villa Nueva and Zacapa will
be transferred to cities around Quezaltenango, following the commissioning of
the new common control equipment at those stations. The Map shows this program
of installation and transfer.
The project includes associated cable networks as well as the suppl.y
and installation of some 35,000 telephone sets and 150 pay stations.
B. LONG DISTANCE SERVICE
1.        The long distance routes included in the project are shown on the
Map. Puerto Barrios, Guatemala's main harbor on the Caribbean Coast, is to
be linked to Guatemala City by a microwave route and will replace the poor
hF radio connection.  This microwave link will be extended from Guatemala
City to Quezaltenango and Retalhuleu.
2.        Coaxial cables equipped for 300 channels will be installed on the
following routes:  Retalhuleu-Mazatenango, Retalhuleu-Coatepeque, Guatemala-
Escuintla and Zacapa-Chiquimula.
3.        VF cables will be installed on two routes, Guatemala-Villa Nueva
and Guatemala-Mixco.
4.        Extensions in TJHF and VHF are planned in the following routes,
with the indicated capacity in channels:
Guatemala-Salama (60)               Quezaltenango-Panajachel (48)
Puerto Barrios-Morales (60)         Retalhuleu-Champerico (24)
Guatemala-Jutiapa (24)              Escuintla-San Jose (24)
Puerto Barrios-Poptun (12)          Puerto Barrios-El Estor (12)
Puerto Barrios-?unta Gorda (12)    Puerto Barrios-Livingston (12)
Zacapa-Teculutan (12)               Zacapa-Gualan (12)
The equipment will be provided through new purchases and plant withdrawm
prom the THF routes which will be equipped with microwave and coaxial systems.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5 pages
5.        A 12+3 channels carrier system will be installed on each of the
following routes served by open wire lines:
Quezaltenango  - Huehuetenango
Quezaltenango  - San Marcos
Chiquimula - Esquipulas
Salama - Coban
Panajachel - Chichicastenango
6.        The project also provides for extension of the trunk swi-ching
equipment in the existing exchanges in Guatemala City and for the installa-
tion of now tz-'unk switching equipnent in cities where the local seivice has
to be expanded,
7.        Shown below are the VF channels to be provided by installing
additional multiplex equipment on the main microwave and coaxial routes.
'Zoutes                                  Number of Channels
Ga-atemala-Quezaltenango                    104
Quezaltenango- Retalhuleu                    86
Quezaltenango- Mazatenango                    9
Quezaltenango - Panajachel                   1-
fetalhuleu-Mazatenango
Letalhuleu-Coatepeque                        1-9
Guatemala-Escuintla                           9
Zacapa-Chiquimula                            39
Guatemala-Zacapa                             L2
Zacapa-Pverto Barrios                        12
Guatemala-Pluerto Barrios                     7
Guate-mala-Chia uimula
Fluatemala-Poptun                             C
Guatemala-Pumta Gorda
Guatemala-El Estor                            8
Guatemala-Livings ton                         6
CGuatemala-Morales                            9
Guatemala-Tecul-utan                          7
Ouatemala-Gualan                              7
C:atcmala-Sanarate                            6
G!Iatemala-Progreso                           6
Guatemala-San Pedro Siaa                      8
r'uerto Barrios-San Pedro Sula               11
Total       5(0
8.        'nhe number of circuit kilometers at the end of the project
period will total about 26,600.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5 pages
9.        Buildings at the following locations  will be modified or con-
structed during the project period:
Modification                    New
Tivoli                          Antigua
Guarda Viejo                    Amatitlan
La Reformita                    Retalhuleu
Chiquimula
Coatepeque
Esquipulas
Coban
Salama
Champerico
Chichicastenango
Huehuetenango
San Marcos
Panajachel
10.       The project also provides for the training of GUATEL's staff abroad
in civil works and switching techniques.
11.       The table on the following page gives details of the estimated costs
of the program and the project.



GUATEMALA
EaPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMCUNICACIONES  Gu.ATEL)
PROGRAM AND PROJECT (1971- 1975)
tin thousands of Quetzalea)
1971                        1972                        1973                        1974                        1975                         Total
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Toial   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
A. Local Service
6,000 Lines Mobile Exchanges           -        -          -         6        94      100       20       646      666        4        186     190      -          -        -         30       926       956
27,000 Lines Fixed Exchanges            -        -          -       114       400      514      296     1,430   1,726        75      1,758   1,833      -          400      400     485      3,988    4,473
Additional Siemens Equipment                      384       84       31         -       31      158       5°5      743       -         181     181      -          -        _        189        850    1,039
Transfer of Equipment                   -        -          -        31        -        31       32        12       44      1226        -      12-                          -       189          12       201
Local Networks                          _        _          -    1,000        580   1,580       760     3,412   4,17r2      120     1,169   1,289       -          580      580   1,880      5,741    7,621
Subscribers' Plant                      -        -          -       100        42      142       80       200      280       65        131     196      -           42       42     245         415      660
Subtotal                                                  i   8    1,282    17,11    2,398   1,3  7        T                                                                          1,932   1,950
B.  Long Distance Service
Microwave Links                          -         _        -       100        125     225      345        955   1,310      112        330      442     _          160      160      557      1,580     2,1S7
Trunk Switching Eluipment,              -          -        _         2         16      18       10         65      75       10         65      75      -           16       16       22        162         4
Cables and Transmission Equipment        -         -        -        98       190      288      720        893   1 613       15        2                           154      154      833     12
Subtotal                                                    200        331      531   1,075      1,923       m      1376           t1            -          330     330    01,412  i3,2b        H,676
C. Buildings and Lands
Local Service                            _         _        -        18        -        18      105         -      105       68         -       68      -           -       -        191        -         191
Long Distance Service                   _          _        _         8      -           8       60         -       60       26         -        26     -           -       -         94        -          94
Subtotal                         -          -        --    -- 2                           5              -75-~    -- 9-                          -           -9     -                   -
D. Contingencies
Physical                                 -          4        4       75         72     147      129        455     584       32        205      237     -           68       68      236        804    1,040
Price                                    --                  -       75         -       75      129         -      129       32         -        32     -           -        -       236        -         236
SubLotal                 _                 -    -   7       150         72      222     250                          45 713  64 205                                          4772               1,276
TOTAL PROJECT                              -          88      88   1,658       1,549   3,177   2,844       8,663  11,507      685      4,310                _      1,420 1,420   5,187    16,000   21,18"
E.  Ongoing Works (including Contingencies)
COMTELCA Network                     394       404       798       -        830      830      -           -       -        -          -       -       -           -        -       394      1,234    1,623
Long Distance Lines                  255        -        255       -          -       -       _           _       _        _          _       _        _          _                255        -         255
GUATEL Telecom Center                641        -        641      220         -      220      -           -       -        -          -       -       -           -        -       861        -         861
Subtotal                     1,2900   -       1,590        22-         30   7                      -                 -             '                                 -    1,510       1,234   -2747
TOTAL PROGRAM                           1,290       492    1,782   1,878       2,349   4227        44           11,507           8      -                           -5 4,97    17,234   23,931
July 6, 1971                                                                                                                                                                                                     0






GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE LOCAL AND LONG DISTANCE NETWORKS FOR 1971-1975
1971                1972                  1973                 1974             1975
ITEMS                         J|F|IM|AIMJ JASOND JIFIMIAIMIJ AIS|ONID JiiiAIJ   J|          D ¶J|MAMJ IJ|A|IS||NID DFSI|1
LOCAL SYSTEMS
f DESIGN
MOBILE  BIDDING
EXCHANGES  EVALUATION & AWARD OF CONTRACTS
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING
IDESIGN
F I X E D BIDDING
EXCHANGES  EVALUATION & AWARDDOF CONTRACTS
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING                                                               -                   -
TRANSFER OF SWITCHING EQUIPMENT                                                                                              -
TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
GUATEMALA-  DESIGN
PUERTO BARRIOS J BIDDING
L I N K   EEVALUATION & AWARD OF CONTRACTS
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING                                                   -
DESIGN
0TH ER WORKS   BIDDING
OEVALUATION & AWARD OF CONTRACTS                                                                                                   Z
INSTALLATION & COMMISSIONING                                                                                                     Z
X
TRANSFER OF TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT                                                                                                               CY,
I BRD-5801 (3R)
June 29, 1971






ANKVX 7
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMINICACIONES (GTJATEL)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed IBRD Loan
Cumula;ive Disbursement
Fiscal Year                   Quarter                at end of Quarter (us$000)
1971/72                  June 30, 1972                         100
1972/73                  September 30, 1972                    300
December 31, 1972                    600
March 31, 1973                       900
June 30, 1973                      1,400
1973/74                  September 30, 1973                  1,900
December 31, 1973                  2,600
March 31, 1974                     3,200
June 30, 1974                      4,000
1974/75                  September 30, 1974                  5,000
December 31, 1974                  6,ooo
March 31, 1975                     7,400
June 30, 1975                      8,800
1975/76                  September 30, 1975                10,400
December 31, 1975                 12,000
March 31, 1976                    14,400
June 30, 1976                     15,200
1976/77                  September 30, 1976                 15,700
December 31, 1976                 16,000
November 8, 1971






GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
TELEPHONE GROWTH  - DEMAND AND SUPPLY  1960-1980
300
90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
800
DEMAND FORECASTTf
LOW ~~~~~LEVEL
9 0             t                                                      >    -                                             FORIECAS T-
70-
z
60 -                                                MINIMUM ESTIMATE
0                                                        OF UNSATISIFIED
i   50 -                  INSTALLED CAPACITY                  DEMAND
4C _ ~~~IN L INE UNITS,,J/ 
40-
30 -
_   g    .  /1   N SUB SCRI B ER                |  H PCRRORGRAM -               PR OGRAM_
20 -                                                    38,003 MAIN
SUBSCRIBER
LINES AT
DECEMBER 31,1970
z
ACTUAL-                                                       - FORECAST
1962       1964         1966        1968       1970        1972        1974        1976        1978       1980        1982
NOTE:
DECEMBER FIGURES USED EACH YEAR                                                                                        IBRD5800(R)
SEMI-LOGARITHMIC SCALE
June 8,1971






A'N~X 5'
Page I oI 2_1
GUATEMAIA
SMPRESA GUIATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Internal Financial Rate of Return
Project Period
1.       hne internal financial rate of return calculations are based
on an assumed project lifetime of 20 years, commencing in 1973 when on
average the equipment will be put into operation.
2.        The residual value of the equipment has been calculated on the
basis of an assumed life of 30 years for cables and 25 years for exchange
equipment. On this basis the residual value of cables is 1/3 their origi-
nal cost; the residual value for exchanges is 1/5 their cost.
Revenues
3.        All revenue estimates are based on existing tariffs.  In the
forecasting of rental revenues, the present distribution between sub-
scriber categories was used; this gives an average yearly revenue of Q50
per subscriber line. A reasonable increase has been assumed in average
revenue per subscriber line from long distance call charges in order to
take into account the expansion of the long distance network. Although
old subscribers generate part of these increased revenueL, they have been
attributed to the project because the existing network is congested and
unable to handle more traffic. Revenues from the international service
are based on the table in Annex 21; however, the main increase in revenues
from that service is due to the COMTELCA network and is not attributable
to the project.
Costs
4.        Construction costs are estimated project costs, including con-
tingencies.  No correction has been necessary as GUATEL does not pay im-
port duties.
5.        Salary and wage costs for operations are estimated to increase
by lO per year due to the project. Other operating costs for the local
and national long distance service are projected to irncrease in proportion
to the number of main subscriber lines. Costs for providing inTernational
service are projected to remain at the historic level of 4C% of inter-
national revenues. Depreciation has been excluded in the operating cost
stream.



rage 2 ofG.'-'
Summarz  of Project Revenues and Costs in Constant Prices
(.ousind Q Uetzales)
Year    Construction Costs    Operating Costs    Revenues    NTet Cash 17'ot-
0971            88                    -               _                83)
1972         3,177                    70              154         K 3,0
1973        11,507                   177              666
197L         !.,995                  372            2,212         ( 3.1,5
9W75         1,.420                  602            4,204           2,'82
`976                                 602            4,676           L,07i
1977                                 602            k,538           3,936
1Q92                                 602            4,431           3,829
1993        (4,956)                  602            4,431           8,785
Rate of Return
6.        The internal rate of return is 17.0%.  This rate is defined as
the discount rate which equates the present worth of the project's con-
struction costs and operating costs to the present worth of the attrib-
xitable revenues.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.        A sensitivity analysis was made, giving the following results:
Rate of Return
10% increase in construction costs               15.3%
105) increase in operating costs                 16.7%
10% increase in revenues                         19.1%
10% decrease in revenues                         14.8%
10% increase in operating costs and
10% decrease in revenues                     14.5g
August 2, l971



GUAUSIALA
IMWFUA GUATEAALUCA DE  n                                 ACoU  (UATUW
ORGANIZATION CHART
|  DGF;IIICWRS  l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~IRSIRTV
|TWITCHING                   TR]SM=SON                    NETWOTES         ]          RA I         [        EEA TNIAEER[                                                  COtMMERCIAl                  COJJI                  DAT [ OSSI=
| IIRRAN EKCHANGIS  F   | CARRIER                C| IA IA CARIES              |
AT.CL4ANC.F  F  |HFRADIO  F tOPEN WIRE INES    F                               |ItANtOZI          #               iUALIFICAION        l      jMNUALlAFFs    l           qnrc.A-I
H r )            | srCLAL LlNrS ANI}   |                               [ MAINIENANCE      F                q EVAIU-IION       l       5 ballSc IruwIIONES |TE TCALSERVICE  IRECTOR
A.T~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ TALL IS''                                                                                                         rNAs           
i_GLNFFAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E) F L9S                     1






ANNEX 11
GUATEMAIA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES(GUATEL)
Staff Details
Number Employed
When GUATEL was formed in April, 1971, it took over the staff
previously employed by three entities -- GUATEL INT, DGT and the Tele-
phone Project group. The operating staff for the domestic telegraph
service who were previously with DGT were transferred to the Posts and
Telegraph Department at the end of 1970. In April 1971, the number of
transferred staff was as follows:
GUATEL         Contracted      Telephone        Total Staff
INT   DGT   Staff of DGT    Project Group    of GUATEL
380   413         116            191             1,100
Salary Structure
In 1971, the salary distribution for the former two main opera-
ting entities was:
GUATEL
INT               DGT
Quetzales                  Number of            Number of
per Month                     Staff       %       Staff        %
- 99                        78       20.5       186      45.o
100-199                       227       59.7       185      44.8
200-299                        35        9.2        26       6.3
300-399                        15        4.0         9       2.2
400-                            25       6.6         7       1.7
380     100.0       413     100.0
The Board is considering giving a substantial salary increase to the staff
transferred from DOT, in order to bring their salaries in line with those
of GUATEL INT (see Annex 21, paragraph 6).
August 2, 1971



GUA'1TMALA
DIRECCION GENERAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (DGT) - TELEPHONE SERVICES
Notional Income Statements - 1968-1971
(in thousands of Quetzales)
Year ending December 31                               1968               1969              1970               1971
OPERATING REVENUE
Telephone
Rental; Call Charges-Local & Long Distance                        2,366              2,627              2,804             2,968
Installation Charges                                                205                209                147               172
Other                                                                 5                  8                  5                 2
Total Operating Revenue                     2,576             2,844              2,956              3,142
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages                                                                   920               788                857               692
Other Operating Expenses                                                361               270                421               399
Depreciation                                                            952               973                990             1,006
Total Operating Expenses                    2,233             2,031              2,268             2,097
OPERATING INCOME                                                           343               813                688             1,045
Less:  Interest                                                         283               222                222               106
NET INCOME                                                                  60               591                466               939
Less:  Contribution to National Budget                                  -                 135                -                 489
ASSUMED NET RETAINED EARNINGS FOR YEAR                                      60               456                466               450
Main Lines in operation
- End of year                                       No.              34,503            36,930             38,003            38,500
- Average                                           No.              33,754            35,717             37,467            38,252
Operating Revenue per Line                           Q                   76                80                 79                82
Net Fixed Plant in Service - Average            Q thousands          14,291            13,683             13,053            12,373
Rate of Return                                                         2.4               5.9                5.3               8.4
Operating Ratio                                                        87                71                 77                67
July 26, 1971



GUATEMALA
DIRECCION GENERAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (DGT) - TELEPHONE SERVICES
Notional Balance Sheets - 1968-1971
(in thousands of Quetzales)
As of December 31                         1968               1969                1970                1971
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant                                                          19,234             19,677              19,936             20,313
Less:  Depreciation                                                   5,286              6,259               7,249              8,255
Net Fixed Plant in Service                   13,948             13,418              12,687              12,058
Work in Progress                                                        179                                   -
Total Fixed Assets                           14,127             13,418              12,687              12,058
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                                                     396                 366                318                 300
Inventories                                                             363                 339                441                 400
Total Current Assets                            759                 705                759                 700
TOTAL ASSETS                                 14 886             14,123              13,446              12,758
LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity                                                                9,615              9,675              10,207              10,673
Assumed Retained Earnings for the year                                   60                 456                466                 450
Tota:l Fquity                                 9,675             10,131              10,673              11,123
Long Term Debt
Bonds                                                                 3,987               2,768              1,630                 619
Current Liabilities
Current Maturities                                                    1,219               1,219              1,138               1,011
Other                                                                     5                   5                   5                  5
Total Current Liabilities                     1,224               1,224              1,143               1,016
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            14,886              14,123             13,446              12,758
July 26, 1971



GUATEMALA
DIRECCION GENERAL DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (DGT) - TELEPHONE SERVICES
Notional Sources and Application of Funds Statement - 1968-1971
(in thousands of Quetzales)
Year ending December 31                    1968               1969               1970               1971
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Income (Before Interest)                                              343                813                688              1,045
Depreciation                                                          952                973                990              1,006
Total Internal Cash Generation               1,295              1,786              1,678              2,051
Contribution from National Budget                                        587                                    76                -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                       1 882              1,786              1,754              2,051
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Construction                                                     380                264                259                377
Debt service
Amortization                                                        1,219              1,219              1,219              1,138
Interest                                                              283                222                222                106
Total Debt Service                           1,502              1,441              1,441              1,244
Increase in Working Capital                                              -                  (54)                54                (59)
Contribution to National Budget                                                             135                -                  489
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS         1,882                        1,786             ____                2,051
July 26, 1971



ANNEX 15
3UATEIALA
EMPRESA CUATEAA1TECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES INTERNACIONALES (GUATE. INT)
Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1968-1971
(in thousands of Cuetzales)
Actual                                       Forecast
Year ending December 31            1968                 1969                 1970                     1971
OPERATING REVENUES
Telephone
Regional-ITiternatiozal (Net) - Outgoing                    635                  829                   917
- Incoming                   227                   331                  440
Total Telephone                                      862                1,160                1,357                    1,620
Telegraph
Regional-International (Net) - Outgoing                     553                   579                  573
- Incoming                   377                   388                  405
Total Telegraph                                      930                  967                  978                      960
Telex (Net) - Outgoing                                           85                  171                  227
- Incoming                                          44                   80                  121
Total Telex                                          129                  251                  34B                      470
Miscellaneous                                                     5                   12                   56                      100
Total Operating Revenues                           1,926                2,390                2,739                    3,150
OPERATING EXPEN3ES
Wages and Social Charges                                        549                  598                  752                      921
Other Operating Expenses                                        237                  315                  429                      584
Depreciation                                                    120                  140                  176                      219
Total Operating Expenses                             906                1,053                1,357                    1,724
OPERATING TNCOME                                                 1,020                1,337                1,382                    1,426
Non Operating Revenues (Expenses)                                (3)                  18                  (22)
INCOME (Before Interest)                                        1,017                 1,355                1,360                    1,426
Interest Charges                                                -                    -                     29                      171
Less:  Interest Charged to Construction                                              -                     29
Interest Charged to Operation                                  -                     -                    -                       171
NET INCOME                                                       1,017                1,355                1,360                    1,255
Less - Profit Participation by Government and Staff             508                  720                  724                      629
- Transferred to Pension Reserve                           51                    67                   68                      63
- Transferred to Contingency Reserve                       51                    68                   68                      63
NET RETAINED EARNINGS FOR YEAR                                     407                  500                   500                     500
Net Fixed Plant 'n Service - Average         Q thousands        747                1,249                1,495                    3,547
Rate of Return                                                   62                   44                   39                       21
Operating Ratio                                                  47                   44                   50                       55
/ Operating income Less Profit Participation by Government, Staff
and Transfer to Pension Reserve/Net Fixed Plant In Service - Average.
No analysis available.
July 27, 1971



ANNEX 16
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES INTERNACIONALES (GUATEL INT)
Balance Sheets 1968-1971
(in thousands of Quetzales)
Actual                                     Forecast
As of December 31                            1968                 1969                 1970                   1971
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant                                             1,248                1,825                2,056                 6,324
Less: Depreciation                                        218                  358                 534                    753
Net Fixed Plant in Service                  1,030                1,467                1,522                  5,571
Work in Progress                                          -                    505                2,740                    404
Equipment in Transit                                      539                  558                 609                    -
Total Fixed Assets                          1,569                2,530                4,871                  5,975
Other Assets                                                  71                   77                   81                    163
Current Assets
Cash - Bank                                               670                  428                 173                     333
Treasury Bonds                                            _                    500                 40o                     4cC
Accounts Receivable                                       381                  443                  578                    48c
Inventories                                                42                   8o                   99                   120
Total Current Assets                        1,093                1,451                1,250                  1,333
TOTAL ASSETS                                2,733                4_o58                                       7,471
LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity                                                  1,o86                1,496                2,062                  2,562
Retained Earnings for the year                            407                  50O                  500                    500
Total Equity                                1,493                1,996                2,562                  3,062
Reserves
Pensions - Severance Pay                                  122                  182                 234                     280
Contingencies                                             126                  194                  262                    325
Total Reserves                                248                  376                  496                     605
Long Term Debt
uppliers                                                                       200                 262                      37
CABEI (i)                                                 -                    -                 1,506                  2,200
CABEI (2)                                                 _                                         -                     600
Total Long Term Debt                          -                    200                1,768                  2,837
Current Liabilities
Current Maturities                                        -                    208                   82                    225
Accounts Payable                                          484                  558                  570                    113
Shares of Profits - Government & Staff                    508                 720                  724                     629
Total Current Liabilities                     992                1,486                _,376                     967
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           2,733                4_,58                6,202                   7.471
Debt/Equity Ration/                                        -/100                 8/92                39/61                   46/54
Current Ratio                                               1.1                  1.0                  0.9                     1.4
Includes Contingency Reserve.
July 27, 1971



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA 1)E TELECONI4ICACIONEC INTERNACIOSALEC (GUATEL INI
Sources and Application of Funds Statements 1968-1971
(in thousands :I' Quetzales)
ActLLal
Year ending December 31                         1968                 1969                  197G
,O-JRCE2 OF FJNhDS
_nternal CasS feneraci or
Income (Before In:eres-)                                   1,017                1,35C                 1,36'                     ,52r
Jepreciation                                                 120                  14C                   176
Total Internal Cash Generation                1,137                 1,495                 1                       _,oL,
Donat. ons and Ocher 'ayh Re-ipts                                53                                          uj                    _
Borrowj.na S
Suppliers ^redits                                            .08                                        144
CABZ7 <1)                                                    -                                        i,5ob t
CARE: (2) ) 
Total Borrowings                                                       40,                 ,c50                    ,29
TOTAL SOUBCES OF FUEDS                         1,190                 1,90625
APPLICATIONE OF FJNDS
Capi-'al Costruction
S'JATEL Torre Builiing-Equipment                             -42n                                       o4,                      37-
Comtelca Network                                                                    47                _7 749
Miseellaneous Plan- and Equipment                            610                   o44
Total Construction                               610                1,:07                 _,L 
Debt Service - Amortizatior.
Suppliers Credit                                             _                    -8
Debt Service - Interest
CABEI (1'2                                                                                               20                     i45
CABEI  2)                                    -                                                          -
Total Debt Service                               -                     -                    2D7
Distribution to Government& Staff                               508                   720                   724                     629
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital
Cash                                                         410                  (242)                 (255)                   160
Bonds                                                                              50C                  100)
Others                                                      (038)                 (179)                 154                     492
Total Ircrease in Worldng Capital                 72                    79                 '201)                    652
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                     1,190                1,906                 3,252                    2,939
Debt Service Coverage                                           _                                           3.1                      3.3
July 26, 1971



ANNEX la
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMKNICACLONES (GUATEL)
Forecast Income Statements 1971-1977
(in thousands of Queteales)
Year ending December 31             1971           1972         1973           194             1975          1976          1977
OPERATING REVENUES
Tele9pone
Ur an - Interurban
Rental: Call Charges--Local & Long Distance       2,968          3,120        3,321           3,868          4,868         5,970         7,090
Installation Charges                                 172            i44          2o6            763          1,158         1,230          1,230
Other                                                 2              4             7             33             43            43            43
Regioral - International (Net)                       1        ,620  1,965         2,417            990          3,412         3,950
Total                              4,762          5,233        5,951           7,654          9,481        11,193        12,903
Telegraph
Regional - International (Net)                         960            950           940            930            920           910          9g0
Telex (Ret)                                               470            610           710            850          1,020         1,170         1,350
Aiscellaneous                                             1              100          125             125            125           150           150
Total Operating Revenues           6,292          6,893        7,726           9,559         11 46         13,423        15,303
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages                                                   1,613          1,937         2,130          2,346          2,578         2,84o         3,120
Oth,er Operating Expenses                                 983          1,043         1,122          1,283          1,481         1,690         1,500
Depreciation                                            1,225          1,380        1,490           1,8oo          2,220         2,560         2,870
Total Operating Expenses           3,821          4360         4.742           5,429          6,279         7,090         7,890
OPERATING INCOME                                           2,471          2,533         2,984          4,130          5,267         6,333         7,413
In,terest Charges                                         277            541           931        1.329 i3                       1 863L  L
NET INCOME                                                 2,194          1,992         2,053          2,801          3,721         4,470         5,i9i
Less - Distributed to Government & Staff                1,118            996         1,026          i,4oo          1,860         2,235         2,596
- Transferred to Reserves                            126            200          206            280            372            447           51i
NET RFnAINED EARNINGS FOR YEAR                               950            7a 821                        1           1,1489        1,788         2,076
Main Lines in Operation
- End of year                               No         38,500         39,500       41,500          5o,690         62,600        74,600        86,6oo
- Average                                   No         38,252         39,000       40,500          46,050         56,60o        68,600        80,600
Operating Revenue per Line - Telephone      Q             124            134           147            166            168           163            16o
Ret Fixed Plant in Service - Average   Q thousands      15,919        17,945        18,604         23,194         29,699         34,016        37,431
Rate pf ReturnJ                                            8.1            8.o         10.0            11.2           10.9          11.4          12.1
Operating Ratio                              %              61             63           61              57             54            53            52
Operating Ineme Lees DListribution to Government, Staff, and Pension
and Severance Pay Reserve/Net Fixed Plant in Service - Average
November 9, 1971



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)                           ANNEX 19
Forecast Balance Sheets 1971-1977
(in thousands of Quetzales)
As of December 31                  1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant                                         26,637     28,648     30,825     41,119     47,854     54,534     60,iIL
Less:  Depreciation                                  9,008     10,388     11,878     13,678     15,898     18,458     21,328
Net Fixed Plant in Service      17,629     18,260     18,947     27,441     31,956     36,076     38,786
Work in Progress and Equipment in Transit              404      2,600     11,900      6,500      5,700      8,900     13,20
Total Fixed Assets              18,033     20,860     30,847     33,941     37,656     44,976     51,986
Other Assets
Bonds                                                  400        340        403        503        649        833      1,053
Others                                                 163        173        183        193        203        203        2103
Total Other Assets                 563        513        586        696        852      1,036      1,256
Current Assets
Cash & Bank                                            333      1,322      2,050      2,449      2,740      3,o67      ,,3
Accounts Receivable                                    780        830        930      1,150      1,390      1,610      1,840
Inventories                                            520        570        620        820        960      1,090      1,200
Total Current Assets             1,633      2,722      3,600      4,419      5.090      5,767      6,473
TOTAL ASSETS                    20,229     24,095     35,033     39,056     43,598     51,779    ,3,715
LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity                                              13,235     14,185     14,981     15,802    16,923      18,412     20,200
Retained Earnings for the year                         950        796        821      1,121      1,489      1,788      2,076
Total Equity                    14,185     14,981     15,802     16,923     18,412     20,200     22,276
Reserves
Pensions & Severance Pay                               280        340        403        503        649        833      1,053
Contingencies                                          325        425        528        668        854      1,077      1,336
Total Reserves                     605        765        931      1,171      1,503      1,910      2,38,'
Long Term Debt (Excluding Current Maturities)
Local Bonds                                            619        233       _          _          _          _          _
Suppliers                                               37       -          -          -          -                     -
Central Bank Loan                                     -         1,000      1,600       -          -          -          -
CABEI (1)                                            2,200      2,455      2,210      1,965      1,720      1,475      1,230
CABEI (2)                                              600        986        822        658        494        330        166
IBRD                                                  -         1,607     10,270     14,580     16,000     15,380     14,727
Future Borrowing                                                 _          -          -         2,800      8,800     14800
Total Long Term Debt             3,456      6,281     14,902     17,203     21,014     25,985     30,923
Current Liabilities
Current Maturities                                   1,236        832      2,042      2,009        409      1,029      1,062
Accounts Payable                                       118        240        330        350        400        420        450
Share of Profit - Government & Staff                   629        996      _126       1,400     _1,860      2,235      2,615
Total Current Liabilities        1,983      2,O68      3,398      3,759      2.669      3,684      4,127
TOTAL LIABILITIES               20,229      ,95       35,033     39,056     43,598     51,779     59,715
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    19/81      29/71      48/52      49/51      53/47      56/44       58/42
Current Ratio                                          0.8        1.3        1.1        1.2       1.9        1.6         1.6
/ Includes Contingency Reserve
November 9, 1971



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOM¶UNICACIONES (GUATEL)                                              ANNEX 20
Forecast Sources and Application of Furds Statements 1971-1977
(in thousands of Quetzales)
Total
Year ending December 31                        1971        1972       1973        1974        1975    1971-1975      1976        1977
SOURCES OF FlINDS
Internal Cash Generation
Incomse (Before Interest)                                         2,471       2,533      2,984       4,130       5,267     17,385       6,333       ,,413
Depreciation                                                      1,225       1,380      14          1 800       2,220      &,115       2,560           0
Total Internal Cash Generation                 3,696       3,913      4,474       5,930       7,487     25,500       6,893       0
)ther Cash Reet2pts                                                   -             10          20         91         120         241        1201
Borrowi ngs
Centril Rank Loan                                                  _          1,700      2,D00        -           -         3,000
Suppliers Credits s
CABEI (1)                                                           694         500        -          -           -         1,194        -
CABE! (2)                                                           600         550        -          -           _         1,150        -
IERD                                                               _          1,607      8,663       4,310       1,420     16,000        -           -
Futt,re Borrowi.ng                                                 _           --                     -2,oO0                2,800       6,003       6,
Total Borrowings                               1,294       3,657     10,663       4,310       4,220     14 j         6 900       6,oo
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                         4,990       7,530     15,157      10,331      11,827     49,885      15,013      16,- 03
APPLTCATIO  OF KJNDS
_znstruction
capital Construction Program 1971-75                              1,782       4,227     11,507       4,995       1,420L    23,931        -
New 2rsu-ram                                                        '                                            4,645       4,645     10,000      1OAJoo
Total Construction                             1,782       4,227      11,500      4,995       6, 65     28,5'76     10,000      10, 0t
Other Investments
Pensions & Severance Pay Reserve                                   _             60)        63         100         i46        249         15L         22
Debt Service - 4mortization
Local Bonds                                                       1,138       1,011         386        233        -         2,768
Suppliers Credits                                                    82         225          37       -           _            344
CABEI (1)                                                          -           -            245        245         245         735        245         24,'
CA3EI (2)                                                                                   164        164         164         492        16t         164
Central Bank Loan                                                  _           _           _         7,400       1,600       3,090
IBRD                                                                           _           _                      _           -          -            62':
Total Amortization                             1,220       1,236         832      2,042       2,009      7,339         409       1,025
Debt Service - Interest
Local Bonds                                                         106          98         45          30        -            279
Suppliers Credits
CAEF1 (1)                                                           145         185         195        177         159         561        141         122
CABEL  (22                                                           26          53          66         57          47         249          38         28
central Bank Loan                                                  -             30         120        138          48         336       -           -
IRii]                                                              -            175         505        927       1,112       2,719      1,150       i,143
Future Borrowing                                                         -                 -          -            180         180        534         924
Total Interest                                   277         541         931      1,329       1,546      4,624       1,863       2,222
Total Debt Service                             1,497       1,777       1,763      3,371       3,555      11.963      2,272       3,251
Distribuited to Government a Staff'                                  1,118         996       1,026      1,400       1,860       6,400      2,235       2,596
Increase (Lecrease) in Workin Capital
Cash                                                                160         989         726        399         291       2,567        327         366
Other Current Assets & Liabilities                                  433       ( 349)         70         66       ( 90)         130           5)     (o;
Total Increase in Working Capital                593         64           98        465         201       2,697        322         336
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                     4,990       7,580      15,157     10,331      11,827      49.385     15,013      16,403
Debt Service Coverage                                                  1.7         1.6         1.9        1.3         1.5                    2.9         2.4
November 9, 1971



ANNEX 
Page 1-M 3 pag
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECO iUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Notes and Assuwptions on Financial Statements
A. Statement of Forecast Income
Urban and Interurban Telephone Revenues
1.        After negotiations, GUATEL iformed the Bank that the tariff
structure will be changed as from Januay 1, 1972.    These changes
are indicated in the footnotes to Annex 22. The effect on revenues wii-
not be large and will be known only after a year. Therefore, the financial
forecasts are based on the tariffs in effect at the tine of the appraisal.
2.        The forecast of revenues fron Rental, Call Charges, Local and
Long Distance assumes that the distribution of subscribers between catego-oies
will remain the same and that therefore the rental per line will continue
to average Q50. Revenues from long distance and excess calls (in 1971 about
Q28 per line) are projected to increase by 5% per year.
3.        Revenues from Installation Charges are calculated from the planned
number of subscriber lines to be connected annually during the construction
program.  In addition, it is assumed that 300 of the existing telephones
will be withdrawn because of unpaid bills. The installation charge can be
paid either in cash or installments; the payment pattern is assumed to be
as in the past, when on average the subscriber paid Q75 cash and Q25 the
following year.
4.        Other Telephone Revenue is profit from sales of telephone sets.
Regional and International Revenues
5.        The forecasts for these reveniues are based on the assumption that
new subscribers make fewer international telephone calls than do old subscribers
and that they do not fully use the facilities until some years after connection.
The long-term growth rate in revenues per subscriber line is expected to be 10%
per year, and the COMTELCA network is projected to generate an additional growth
of 10% per year over a three-year period. With these assumptions, the revenue
per subscriber line works out as follows:
Revenue per Subscriber
Line (Quetzales)
Subscribers connected in or earlier   1571  1972  19731974  1975  1976  1977
1971                     42    50    60    73    80    88    97
1972                           21    42    50    52    57    62
1973                                 21    42    46    51    56
1974                                        6    13    25    28
1975                                               3    13    25
1976                                                     3     5
1977                                                           3
All subscribers - average               42    50    60    65    60    58    56



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3 pages
Telegraph, Telex and Mliscellaneous Revenues
6.        Regional and international telegraph revenues are expected to
decrease slightly due to improved international telex and telephone faci-
lities. Telex revenues are projected to grow rapidly, although at a lower
rate than in the past.
Operating Expenses - Wages
7.        In 1972 the former DGT personnel are expected to get a pay raise
of 20% on average, to bring their wages in line with those paid to the
former GUATEL INT's staff. The increased cost of wages arising from normal
pay raises and from additional staff due to expanded operations is projected
to be 10% per year.
8.        Other operating expenses for international. service are estimated
to increase by 10% per year, while other operating expenses for local and
long distance services are expected to remain on the same level per sub-
scriber line as in the past.
9.        Depreciation is calculated by using a composite rate of 5%,
which corresponds to the expected average lifetime of the assets used
by GUATEL.
B. Notes and Assumptions on the Balance Sheets
1.        The amount of Work in Progress and Equipment in Transfer at the
end of each year is based on the estimated time of completion of the main
items in the expansion program.
2.        Bonds. An amount equal to the Pension and Severance Pay Reserve
has been invested in bonds.
3.        Accounts Receivable is assumed to be about 1.4 months' billing.
4.        Inventories is projected to Q2 per Q100 of gross plant.
5.        Pension and Severance Pay Reserve grows with the amount
transferred from net income less assumed yearly payments of Q40,OO0.
Long-Term Debt
6.        Local Bonds.  To finance DGT's expansion program, five series
of National Telephone Bonds were issued that are still outstanding. The
terms are as follows.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3 pages
Amount of   Interest Amortization  Year of    Total Outstanding
Issue       Rate     Period          Last      at end of 1970
(Thousand Q)    _       (Years)    Amortization   (Thousands Q)
Serie t'Alt    2,000       5%          25          1971             78
Serie "B"      2,000       5%          14          1972            286
Serie 'iC"t    1,OCO      5%          13          1973            233
Serie I'D"     3,000       5%          12          1974          1,000
Decreto 1554   5,500       5%           8          1972          1,171
7.        Central Bank Loan, totalling Q3.0 million, with an interest rate
of 6%, is assumed raised in 1972 and 1973 to cover the high level of local
expenditure for the program.  The loan will be repaid in 1974 and 1975.
8.        CABEI (1) and (2). These two loans finance the CONTELCA scheme.
The first loan is for Q2,700 thousand at 7-1/2% interest for a term of
14 years including 3 years' grace.  The second loan is for Q1,150 thousand
at 5-3/4% interest for a term of 8 years including 1 year's grace.
9.        The proposed IBRD lon is for Q16 million, at an interest rate
of 7-1/4% tor a term of 20 years including 5 years' grace.
10.       Accounts Payable is assumed to equal about one month's cash
outlay for the local currency part of construction costs and for operating
expenses other than wages and depreciation.
C. Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
1.        Telephone sets are procured as part of GUATEL's Capital Construc-
tion Program. The profit from sales of telephones is included in Internal
Cash Generation and the portion that corresponds to GUATEL's cost of sold
sets is shown as other cash receipts.
November a, 1971






ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2 pages
GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TEL.ECC CAGIONES (GUATEL)
Siwnary of Tariffs
1. Telephones - Local
Installation    Monthly     Free      Charge
Charxge      Rental    Units  !  er Unit 1/
(Quet2iZes7   (Quetzales)   ~(Qetzals
Business                100.00 3/      8.oo       h400/       0.02
Professional            100.00        6.o          400 4      0.02
Residential             100.00         3.00        4o00 i/    0.02
Goverrnent Q              0.00         3.00      unlimited
Public Telephone                                              0.05
An extension costs Q1.00 in installation charge, plus Q0.50 in
monthly rental.
2. Telephones - Long Distance
a) Automatic
Duration between         Cost for a 3-minute
unit pulses (seconds)   telephone call (Quetzales)
7 a.m. to   7 p.m. to    7 a.m. to     7 p.m. to
Distance       7 p.m.      7 a.m.        7 p.m.        7 a.m.
- 50 }n             30          45            0.12          0.08
50-100 km             20           30           0.18          0.12
100-200 km             15           22.5         0.24          o.16
more than 200 km       12           18           0.30          0.20
b) Manual
7 a.m. to    7 p.m. to
7 p.m.       7 a.m. and Sundays
(Quetzales)  _(Quetzales)
First three minutes                 0.50         0.40
Additional minute                  0.05          0.03
Extra charge for person-
to-person call                0.20          0.30
1/   1 Unit = 3 minutes for local calls from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and
4.5 minutes from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.
W/   Effective January 1, 1972, Government will be charged the Business tariff,
3/   Effective January l, 197k, this will be inoreased to QI50.
F     Effective January 1, 1972, this will be reduoed.



ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2 pages
3. Telephones - International
Sample rates for three minutes from Guatemala City to the following:
Quetzales
Mexico City                          3.38
Central American Countries           3.60
Florida                              7.20
New York                            10.80
Peru                                18.00
Spain                               21.60
November 8, 1971



GUATEMALA
HANCATREOCUNICTO                                                            POGRA
'4    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
AAOO  ULO''~~                                   I,%S -----------                             PR      GRA
0OAAA ,LRJ1VUNIRAR 
CATA R   >Cu-HA    AEHOAL
E~~~~~~
R.AARI2.~(17,J
Ew  ExisTING~~~(
E.-MR,                                          14icRoNAvE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
ISA                                                                                              J57Aiy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--          -  ARE  N ~,L
jwr.vmF PADIQ~ ~ ~ ~~Lj
COAXIA rArL
I I       NL
00    OH  AC                                          PCPICTc.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o PULC E'PON  rFC
/                                                                       U-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o.-    "~~~~XCAG (E  QUFET NY
EC.,gHANG TH MWIHEQIMN  ILB
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASERD
NOVMBE 191                                                                                                                                                      !BR..3474R



