Documeunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCL USIE ONELY
Rqmt No. 11363
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1215-BD)
NOVEMBER 25, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
as of 12/81            as of 10/91               1 acre (ac           =    0.405 hectare (ha)
(SAR)                                          1 maund (md)         =    82,27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =    26.8 md
US$1       =  Tk 18.00            Tk 37.50                  1 seer               =    0.9325 kg
Tk 1       =  US$0.0556           US$0.027                  M                    =    million
Tk 1 million =  US$55,600         US$26,667                 B                    =    billion
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP      - Agricultural Research Project                  HYV      - High Yielding Variety
BARC    - Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, MAF    IDA     - International Development Association
BARI     - Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, MAF    MAF  - Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
BRRI     - Bangladesh Rice Research Institute             M&E      - Monitoring and Evaluation
BWDB    - Bangladesh Water Development Board              MP       - Muriate of Potash
CERDI    - Central Extension Resources Development        MTFPP   - Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
Institute, MAF                               MUV      - Manufacturing Unit Value
DAE      - Department of Agricultural Extension, MAF      OFTD     - On-Farm Trials Division
DTC      - District Technical Committee                   PCR      - Project Completion Report
EAR I    - Extension and Research I Project (Cr. 729-BD)  PP       - Project Proforma
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return                        PIW      - Project Implementation Wing, MAF
FAO      - Food and Agriculture Organization of the United    RMB  - Resident Mission Bangladesh
Nations                                      SAR      - Staff Appraisal Report
FAO/CP   - FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme           T&V      - Training & Visit
FE       - Foreign Exchange                               TA       - Technical Assistance
GOB      - Government of Bangladesh                       TSP      - Triple Super Phosphate
GDP      - Gross Domestic Product                         UDF      - Upazila Development Fund
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
AAEO     - Assistant Agricultural Extension Officer   PSO       - Principal Scientific Officer, BARI
BS       - Block Supervisor                           SMO       - Subject Matter Officer
CSO      - Chief Scientific Officer                   SMS       - Subject Matter Specialist
DDA      - Deputy Director of Agriculture             SO        - Scientific Officer (Research Sub-station)
DTO      - District Training Officer                  SSO       - Senior Scientific Officer
EA       - Extension Agent                            UAO       - Upazila Agricultural Officer
EO       - Extension Officer                          VEA/BS   - Village Extension Agent/Block Supervisor
GLOSSARY Agricultural Terms
Aman  -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon Iwhich begins in June) and harvested in November or December
(B. aman is broadcast, T. aman is transplanted).
Aus  -   Rice planted during March and April and harvested during July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is
transplanted).
Boro  -   Rice planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USX ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 9, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Extension and Research Proiect (Credit 121 5-BD)
Attached is a copy of a report entitled "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh -
Second Extension and Research Project (Credit 1215-BD)" prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office.
The production impact due to this agricultural extension and research project is
unknown, as the intended monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities were not carried out.
Despite management and funding problems a Training and Visit (T&V) extension program was
put in place and is being adapted under a follow-on project. The research investments were
completed. The project is likely to achieve many of its objectives. The sustainability of the
extension system will depend on achievements in the follow-on project and the capacity of
the research system to generate adapted technologies.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate account of project
implementation. No comments on Part I and IlIl were received from the Borrower. An
immediate audit is not recommended. However, the project may be audited in conjunction
with the ongoing Agricultural Support Services Project when the latter is completed.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COLEfTON REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECONI) EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1215-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   .........................................  iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   ....................    1
Project Identity   .          ............................................    1
Project Background .                .......................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description   .................................    2
Project Design and Organization  ....................................    3
Project Implementation   ........................................    4
Project Results   .           ............................................    7
Project Sustainability .            .......................................... 8
IDA Performance . ............................................ 9
Borrower Performance .........................................  10
Lessons Leaned ................                                                                                    10
Adherence to Covenants ................ 11
Consulting Services .......................................... 11
Project Relationships ...................... 11
Project Documentation and Data ...................... 12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                                   .......... 13
PART  m:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...............................   14
Related IDA Credits .               .......................................... 14
Project Timetable . ............................................ 15
Credit Disbursements  .                 ........................................ 16
Project Implementation   ........................................  17
Staffing   .         ............................................  17
Training  .          ............................................  17
Fellowships .             .......................................... 17
Procurement .              .......................................... 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Content - Cont'd.                                                                                                           Pge No.
Civil Works  ...........................................   17
Technical Assistance    .....................................   17
Project Costs and  Financing    .....................................   18
Project Costs   ..........................................   18
Project Financing    .......................................   19
Project Results  .                    ............................................ 20
Direct Benefits  .........................................   20
Economic Impact   .......................................   20
Financial Impact  ........................................  21
Studies .............................................. 21
Status of Covenants    ..........................................   22
Use of IDA  Resources  .........................................   23
Staff Inputs (weeks)  ......................................   23
Missions  .............................................  23
ANNEX A: INDICATIVE CALCULATION OF PROJECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS ..... 25
Table  1.  Economic Analysis  .....................................   26
Table 2.  National Foodgrain  Production  1983-1991    ......................   27
Table 3.  Incremental Production  Due to Extension   .......................   27
Table 4.  Crop  Budget - Boro  (Economic Prices)   ........................   28
Table 5.  Exchange Rates and  Bangladesh  GDP  Deflators   ...................   29
Table 6.  Project Cost in  1991  Prices    ...............................   30



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1215-BD)
PREFACE
This report contains parts I and III of the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Second Extension and Research Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1215-BD in the amount
of SDR 23.2 million, equivalent to US$27.0 million, was approved in March 1982. The credit
was closed on June 30, 1991 in accordance with the revised schedule following reformulation
of the Project in 1988, but four years behind the original schedule. Of the total credit amount,
SDR 16.7 million, equivalent to US$19.5 million, was disbursed by November 5, 1991. A total
of SDR 6.5 million (28% of the original credit) was cancelled during 1990 and 1991.
The PCR - Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III - have been prepared by an
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission that visited Bangladesh from October 1-17,
1991. The Bank requested the Borrower to provide comments on Parts I and III, but none were
received, notwithstanding follow-up action by the Resident Mission in Dhaka.
This report (PCR Parts I and III) is based on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development
Credit Agreement; supervision reports; project files held in Dhaka containing inter alia
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, documentation
provided by the implementing agencies (Project Proformas and statements of expenditures and
achievements); field visits to five of the project districts; and meetings with project and IDA
staff in Dhaka.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJEC-T
(Cr. 1215-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project was to extend the Training & Visit (T&V) system of
extension, from a pilot area in the northwest, to 70% of the agricultural districts of the country,
in support of the government's objective of achieving self-sufficiency in rice and wheat by 1985.
In addition, the project aimed at developing appropriate production technologies through adaptive
and cropping systems research programs for both rainfed and irrigated farming systems, and an
intensification of the extension effort with the aim of increasing the uptake of high yielding
varieties (HYV) and higher input use. The main actions and activities that were to be supported
by the project included: (a) the merging and reorganization of five specialized crop extension
services into a unified extension service, (b) an increase in number of staff of the new service,
(c) specialist training for existing and new staff, (d) provision of vehicles and bicycles to
improve extension and research staff mobility, (e) construction of extension staff housing and
offices, (f) improving research station facilities and provision of funding for special research
programs, especially farming systems research and training, and (g) the provision of technical
assistance.
Implementation Experience (Section 5)
2.    On the whole, most of the key performance indicator targets were met. However, the
research component experienced substantial delays in civil works construction and equipment
supply. There were a number of variances in the implementation of the extension component.
In particular, external training for extension staff was not undertaken; the monitoring and
evaluation technical assistance activity did not take place and the related Management
Information System within the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) was not established;
and there was a significant shortfall in the number of bicycles supplied to Block Supervisors
(BS). In addition, there was a shortfall in the recruitment of Subject Matter and District
Training Officers, and in the total number of demonstrations undertaken. Operationally some
problems were experienced with the payment of salaries and travel allowances to district
extension staff following the reorganization of local government in 1986/87. This, and the



- iv -
failure to comply with a covenant calling for the merger of the extension activity of the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) with the DAE, contributed to suspension of the
project for six months in 1987. Subsequently, the project was reformulated in 1988 with a
provisional extension of the credit closing date to June 30, 1991. Following reformulation,
implementation of extension activity improved, although further delays were experienced due
to inadequate allocation of funds for the project in the 1988/89 Annual Development Program.
Results (Section 6)
3.    The project is likely to achieve most of its objectives, albeit with some delays and with
the support of the follow-on project. It has undoubtedly contributed to the establishment of a
national system of extension based on regular farmer and extension agent training, and regular
contact between extension and research staff. In the absence of any formal monitoring and
evaluation surveys it is not possible, however, to quantify the benefits of the project in terms
of increased production. Circumstantial evidence suggests that some farmers have altered their
farming practices as a result of improved extension, and that at least some of the recent
production increases in rice can be attributed to the project. An indicative analysis, based on
attributing 4% per annum of national incremental foodgrain production over the period to
extension, results in an ERR for the project of 14.5%. However, over-centralized planning and
control of the extension messages delivered has produced a mechanistic extension system that
fails to respond to local farming problems and, as such, does not yet enjoy the full support and
confidence of farmers. While the project has been reasonably successful in bringing about the
merger of the five specialized extension services into a unified service, the merger of the BWDB
extension activities with DAE was only partially successful. Although regular meetings of the
District Technical Committees are taking place, an insufficient range of research disciplines is
usually represented. Local extension staff training failed to properly address the important
subjects of extension methods, agricultural economics and irrigation management.
4.    As far as research is concerned, the project has achieved little to date in terms of
increased production. The major investments were made almost at the end. of the project life,
and related research programs are only just getting under way. Some progress has been made
with the development of farming systems research, but to date only a few technologies have been
developed that are being adopted by farmers. Given the delays in this component, it is too early
to judge its eventual benefits.
5.    The technical assistance support provided by the project initially made a substantial
contribution to the establishment of the extension system through the development of extension
manuals, staff training, and assistance in the design of management and operational procedures.
It was less successful in the later stages of the project when it failed to address the problem of
extension message design.



Project Sustainability (Section 7)
6.    The project has contributed significantly to the raising of BS standards through in-service
and regular routine training, and staff recruited by the project have now been transferred to the
regular DAE budget. However, the overall calibre of many of the BSs still remains low, and
it is difficult to see how the cadre can be developed into a field force able to fully comprehend
and respond imaginatively to local farming situations and needs. The present service is also
operationally expensive, relying as it does on a large field force making regular visits to a large
number of farmers. Future sustainability of the service will therefore depend on its ability to
become more farmer responsive through raising the calibre of BSs - by more selective
recruitment and better training; and in reducing costs by cutting staff numbers and making better
use of low-cost forms of message communication such as radio, group meetings, demonstrations,
and printed materials. Unless these measures, which are included in the Agricultural Support
Services Project (Cr. 2233-BD) that has recently become effective, can be introduced, the
sustainability of the service is doubtful.
7.    Sustainability of the research activity supported by the project is even less certain. With
the exception of the on-farm farming-systems research developed at nine locations, there is no
evidence that the project has yet resulted in any significant development or expansion of research
activity. On the contrary, staff shortages are still reported at outlying stations and funds for
operational expenses have become short since completion of the project. Indeed at some stations
because of lack of operation funds for research and in order to avoid leaving the land fallow,
production of crops and or seeds/seedlings for sale has taken place. While the return of the
postgraduate students supported by the project will result in some further strengthening of
adaptive research activity, availability of operational funds in a timely manner must continue to
ensure sustainability in the long run.
Lessons Learned
8.    The main lessons learned deal primarily with project design. These are: (a) new or
modified institutional arrangements (e.g., merger of extension services) should be thoroughly
discussed and agreed with the borrower. It is not realistic to introduce major new institutional
changes between appraisal and signing of the Development Credit Agreement, and expect them
to be adopted without great difficulty; (b) a five-year period, (the original project period) is too
short a time in which to successfully research, develop, test and have farmers adopt new
production technologies in a resource poor country like Bangladesh. In addition to these design
considerations, some lessons can be learned from the implementation experience. In particular,
the importance of undertaking baseline studies and regular monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
surveys to determine quantitatively changes in farming practices; and that the significant
improvement in implementation of extension activity following project suspension in 1987
demonstrates that, in this instance, firm IDA action was effective in getting the Govemment to
deal with outstanding issues. Considerable delays continued to affect the research component,



- vi -
however, and IDA should probably have put more pressure on the research agencies indicating
the possibility of cancellation of credit funds if they were not drawn by the scheduled dates. It
also seems reasonable to conclude that while the extension component was relatively well
understood and managed by one agency, the research component was diffuse, and difficult to
supervise. In such situations, IDA should put proportionately greater resources into supervising
the more difficult component.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1215-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name:  Second Extension and Research Project
Credit No.:    1215-BD
RVP Unit:     South Asia Region
Country:       Bangladesh
Sector:       Agriculture
Sub-sector:   Support Services
2. Proiect Background
2.1      Agricultural sector development objective.  The primary objective of the
Government's second Five-Year Plan (FY80-85) was to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains
by increasing production from about 14 million m tons in FY81 to 20 million m tons by
FY85. At the time of appraisal it was envisaged that in addition to investment in irrigation,
two important ways of achieving increased production would be through research providing
relevant innovations for improved agricultural practices, and for these and other high output
technologies to be disseminated to farmers through an improved extension service.
2.2      Research & extension institutions. The two main research institutions concerned
with foodgrains are the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) and the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Institute (BARI). Both institutes had by the early 1980s produced
some valuable high yielding varieties (HYV), but these had not been taken up on a large
scale, and it was felt that more adaptive research needed to be done. To help coordinate
the research of BARI, BRRI and other specific commodity research institutes, the
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) had been established in the late 1973.
There was, however, no systematic organization of extension in Bangladesh with the
exception of parts of the northwest of the country where the Training & Visit (T&V) system



was introduced on a pilot basis under the first IDA financed Extension and Research
Project, Cr. 729-BD (EAR I). In addition, extension was highly fragmented with each
commodity having its own service. Encouraged by the success of the pilot project, it was
decided to introduce the T&V system over a larger part of the country, and to consolidate
a number of extension services into a unified crop extension service to be known as the
Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE).
2.3       Policy context and linkage with other projects.  With IDA assistance the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) had evolved a medium-term foodgrain production plan
(MTFPP) which laid major emphasis on a rapid expansion of small and medium scale
irrigation backed by rapid increases and improvements in the supply of key agricultural
inputs. To handle this increased volume of inputs effectively, the Government increased
private participation and decreased price subsidies. It was to ensure efficient utilization of
these inputs that the Governrment intended to strengthen agricultural extension and research,
via this project. The project was implemented in the context of two other IDA-financed
projects (Agricultural Training II, Cr. 1396-BD; and Agricultural Research II, Cr. 1455-BD)
and a UNDP/FAO project (Strengthening the Agricultural Extension Services,
BGD/79/034).
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives. The project was established to support the MTFPP objective
of Bangladesh achieving self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, and in particular to ensure
that irrigation and agricultural inputs were utilized efficiently. In line with the MTFPP
strategy, major emphasis was put on (a) adaptive research under low cash input rainfed
conditions, (b) on-farm development research in irrigated areas, (c) intensive extension
effort on improving yields of rice and wheat in irrigated areas through use of better farming
practices, and (d) extension effort on improving rice and jute production in rainfed areas
through greater use of HYVs and fertilizers.
3.2       Project description. At appraisal the project provided for:
(a) improving agricultural e. tension effectiveness by merging and reorganizing
five existing extension agencies;
(b)  intensifying extension work by providing about 2,270 additional extension
agents (EA), upgrading about 200 EAs as extension officers (EO) and by
hiring an additional 60 EOs;
(c)  providing specialized training of about 500 staff-years to extension and
research officers;



(d)  improving extension and research staff mobility by providing 5,400
bicycles, 500 motorcycles, 23 other vehicles and by increasing extension
staff travel allowances;
(e)  improving extension offices through new construction in 20% of project
districts and thanas and by rehabilitating 750 abandoned seed stores as
housing-cum-offices for 1,500 EAs;
(f)  improving research facilities by expanding a BARI coconut research
station into a regional station and filling in minor deficiencies at eight
other stations;
(g)  improving adaptive research by reorganizing BARI regional research and
by providing US$1 million in research grants through BARC; and
(h)  providing about 21 consultant-years of technical assistance.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       Project design. The project was prepared in August 1980 by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests (MAF) with the assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAO/CP) and the International Agriculture Development Service. It was
appraised by IDA in June/July 1981. The project was reformulated in 1988, following a
suspension of six months in 1987 (para 5.3), to incorporate a number of changes geared to
resolve administrative difficulties in project implementation following GOB's
decentralization of local government.
4.2       There was a clear conceptual foundation for the project and its timing was
appropriate. GOB was committed to establishing in all areas of the country with a high
agricultural potential a methodical system of extension and as the T&V system had proved
viable in the northwestern area of the country under the EAR I Project, it was a logical step
to extend it to other regions. It was also logical to merge and unify different crop extension
agencies under a new directorate. Research-extension linkage needed much improvement
and the establishment of District Technical Committees (DTC) allowed for this. The
importance of training for both extension and research staff was correctly recognized. For
extension it was particularly important after the merger (to reorient specialist staff); and for
research to give a boost to the farming-systems approach. To make field work more
effective, transport and local accommodation were needed; and to provide research with the
capacity to expand its work, extra facilities were required. To help implement such a sizable
project effectively, technical assistance was needed.
4.3       The project was innovative in that it aimed at creating the DTCs; it allowed
eligible extension agents to buy (under a hire purchase system) their own bikes or
motorbikes; it ensured wasted government assets were being used and extension staff were



- 4 -
being accommodated at their place of work by renovating unused seed-stores as houses-cum-
offices for EAs; and its support for research was focused on farming-systems.
4.4       The project was perhaps a little ambitious in scope and scale. The assumptions
used for the calculation of yields, based on the substitution of local varieties with HYVs,
together with better use of inputs and farming practices were also over-optimistic. In
practice, yields have increased marginally with most increased output coming from an
increased area under Boro and T. Aman rice and with only some increase in cropping
intensity.
4.5       Project organization. Overall, the institutions involved in the project understood
their roles and responsibilities, although the resistance to merging the extension activities
of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) with DAE was underestimated by
IDA.   However, subsequent to project inception, GOB  initiated programs for
decentralization of power and creation of the upazila parishad system, under which the
Upazila Chairman and his council were given administrative control of development funds
and of staff of the line ministries at upazila level and below. This caused significant
disruption to some aspects of the extension effort until new arrangements were developed
for carrying out and funding extension under the decentralized structure.
5. Project ImDlementation
5.1       Variances. In general, there were few major variances in project implementation
other than a four-year delay in the original completion date. The main implementation
features of the project are discussed below.
5.2       Delay in credit effectiveness. The Credit was signed in March 1982, but only
became effective in October 1982. The delay was largely due to the inevitable slowing down
of decision making resulting from top level changes within MAF following a military coup.
5.3       Implementation schedule and extension of closing date. Implementation was
initially very slow due to political changes and failure of the implementing agencies to
prepare and have approved acceptable Project Proformas. Subsequently, decentralization
of local govermment and the transfer of responsibility for Block Supervisors (BS) to the local
Upazila Council resulted in a virtual cessation of field activities. These two factors, coupled
with slow progress in the BWDB extension merger, caused IDA to suspend the project in
1987. After six months' suspension, and signs by GOB of an intention to resolve the
outstanding issues, the project was reformulated with a provisional extension of the credit
closing date to June 30, 1991.
5.4       Research component. Due to a financial crisis in 1982/83, GOB deleted from
the Project Proformas (required for authorization of investment expenditure) provisions for
research components which were made subject to the findings of a mid-term review



- 5 -
scheduled to be completed by December 1984. While the consultants recommended in 1985
that these components be restored in the revised Project Proformas and the Secretary of
Agriculture approved the recommendation, this did not take place until mid-September,
1987, about five months after disbursement was suspended. As a result, major research
investments were only completed by the end of the project period, and the related research
programs are only just getting under way.
5.5       Project area. The project area was originally set to cover 15 out of the 21
agricultural districts, or 46 out of 64 administrative districts. Under the 1988 reformulation
(para 4.1), all areas of the country except the Chittagong Hill Tracts were covered
(see Fig.1).
5.6       Stafring. Under the terms of the project, GOB agreed to appoint a further 2,270
extension agents to make a total of 8,060; and to upgrade 200 EAs, (later designated BS)
to EOs and to hire an extra 60 EOs to make a total in this category of 1,640. The
subsequent changes in the administrative structure under the decentralization process and
the expansion of the original project area from 15 districts to cover virtually the entire
country complicated the recruitment situation. Even so, at the national and regional levels
virtually all positions have been filled. At the district level, all positions of Deputy Director
(i.e., the most senior district-level position) and Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) have also
been filled. However, one-third of the District Training Officer (DTO) positions still remain
vacant. Within the districts, the senior positions (those filled by graduates) at the upazila
level, namely, the Upazila Agricultural Officer (UAO) and Assistant Agricultural Extension
Officer (AAEO), have been virtually filled. However at the Subject Matter Officer (SMO)
grade, there has been a 40% shortfall. This is apparently due to a shortage of qualified
potential recruits. At the lower levels within the upazilas, the situation is good, with over
95% of BS positions being filled, allowing the original target of having a BS:farm family
ratio of about 1:1000 to be achieved.
5.7       As far as research is concerned, the farming systems research posts created by
the project have been filled. However, it is not clear that they have been filled by
redeployment of staff of the On-Farm Trials Division (OFTD), as called for at appraisal,
as most OFTD staff seem still to be in position. Considerable problems have been
experienced in recruiting researchers to work at Rhamatpur. The senior Chief Scientific
Officer (CSO) post remains vacant, and the three Principal Scientific Officer (PSO) and four
Senior Scientific Officer (SSO) positions have only been filled within the last two years.
5.8       Transport. Following reformulation, the project's targets were for the supply of
6,351 bicycles, 970 motorcycles, a bus and 22 4-wheel drive vehicles for the extension service,
and 48 bicycles, 37 motorcycles and 11 vehicles for BARI and BRRI. In actual fact,
however, only 5,330 bicycles have been supplied, partly because of GOB's later insistence
that bicycles be supplied by local manufacturers, established since the project started, and
partly because of IDA's continued insistence on International Competitive Bidding. A total
of 810 motorcycles were supplied, the shortfall being due largely to the failure of the Bureau
of Statistics to purchase the motorcycles assigned to it following reformulation. The bus was



- 6 -
not bought because of a failure to obtain Presidential approval. Savings on the bus and
motorcycles enabled the DAE to purchase more than the originally intended number of
4-wheel drive vehicles. The research institutions similarly purchased more vehicles and
fewer motorcycles than originally anticipated. The farm machinery and laboratory
equipment for Rhamatpur were purchased very late (1991).
5.9       Travel allowances. These were also included in the project as part of the
incremental staff costs. However, confusion arose as to how they were to be paid when
lower-level field staff came under the administrative wing of the Upazila Parishad. By late
1984 there was a six-month backlog in payments. Despite appeals from IDA, GOB failed
to address this issue and this was one of the causes of suspension of the project in 1987.
Following reformulation, things improved and it now appears that most BSs receive their
travel allowances on time, although some SMOs with motorcycles still report delays of up
to six months. No problems have been reported with travel allowances for staff at the
district level, who are paid directly by DAE.
5.10      Civil works. The main purpose of the agricultural extension civil works program
was to renovate and modernize old village seed stores into houses-cum-offices for use by
BSs. Eight hundred fifty-seven units out of a target, after reformulation, of 1,050 were
renovated. The shortfall is attributed largely to the poor condition of many of the older
seed stores that required complete rebuilding at a greater cost than originally budgeted for.
In addition, 16 new district offices were built and, for nine of these, new residences have
also been built for Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA). The project also included funds
for repair of four elevators (at the DAE headquarters) which was done; and for building
and furnishing a training hall and guest house at the headquarters, which was not done. The
research civil works program was substantial, accounting for some 40% of the projected and
actual expenditure on research. Construction targets of 75% and 54% were achieved for
housing and offices respectively. However, these shortfalls were compensated for by the
construction of dormitory blocks for trainees at BARI and BRRI headquarters. While the
quality of construction has been generally good, the construction programs for both
extension and research were badly delayed. This was due initially to delays in getting
Project Proformas (PP) that conformed with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proposals,
prepared and approved; and to restrictions on financial allocations under the Annual
Development Programs of FY87 and FY88 following cyclone and flood disasters. In the last
three years of the project, the Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of MAF improved its
performance and the pace of extension civil works construction considerably improved.
However a large proportion of the research program, especially the important development
of the regional station at Rhamatpur, was only completed as the project closed in June 1991.
5.11      Training, studies and demonstrations. Approximately 50% of the allocated
funding for extension staff training and demonstrations was used, with some 3,330 BSs
participating in a one-year updating course, and most staff receiving some in-service training.
The shortfall in expenditure was due to (a) the failure of DAE to undertake any of the
foreign training proposed, as it claimed that IDA procedures were too complicated; (b) a
shortfall in the number of regional workshops held (of the 12 regional workshops which
---------                                                       . -------



- 7 -
were included in the project reformulation budget aimed at increasing the links between
district and national staff, just four were done); (c) the pilot scheme to involve the Central
Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI) and its outstations in testing extension
approaches was not done; and (d) of the planned 30,000 demonstrations per year, making
a total of 90,000 for the last three years, only 70,000 actually were done.
5.12      The post-graduate overseas training program managed by BARC was successfully
implemented as planned, with a total of ten Ph.D. and nine M.Sc. fellowshlips being
awarded. One candidate is reported to have failed, and the others have or are just about
to return, so it is too early to assess their contribution to research. Short (2-3 month)
training courses abroad for 15 scientists, rather than 18 as planned, were also organized,
together with the supervision of 25 research studies.
5.13      Credit disbursement. The final cost of the project is estimated at
US$28.3 million, or 69% of the SAR estimate. With the exception of the first year,
disbursements were continually between 50-60% lower than planned. A total of SDR 6.5
million (28% of the original credit amount) was cancelled, with SDR 5.6 million (equivalent
to US$7.4 million) cancelled on June 28, 1990 and the balance of SDR 0.9 million
(equivalent to US$1.3 million) cancelled effective November 5, 1991. The main reasons for
the under expenditure and lower than expected disbursement were an over generous
allowance for contingencies at appraisal, and savings arising from the devaluation of the
Taka during the project from US$1.0 = Tk 18.0 at appraisal to US$1.0 = Tk 37.5 at
completion.
6. Project Results
6.1       Project results were mixed. The extension component has been considerably
more successful than the research component in that a system of extension has been
established over most of the country and all concerned are conversant with its mode of
operation. Field staff are reported to be making regular visits to contact farmers, diaries
are being correctly used by the BSs, and supervisors appear to be signing them off regularly.
The District Technical Committees which allow researchers and DAE district staff to
exchange views and agree on the extension messages for the following month have also been
successful, although the procedures and participants at the DTC need further refinement
and consolidation. In particular, researchers of all relevant disciplines should attend
regularly; messages should become more location- and condition-specific; and the meetings
should include senior DAE Upazila-level staff. The principle of allowing DAE staff to buy
bicycles and motorbikes under a hire purchase arrangement appears to be working well in
that those who have been able to take up the option are satisfied. Field observations
revealed that vehicles, motorbikes and bikes were generally in good order. Local training
(both pre-service to re-orient extension staff after the merger, and in-service) has been
effective, though too little has been done on irrigation management, agricultural economics
and extension methods. Demonstrations have had some impact and crops other than rice
are being given attention, but the messages promoted are not always relevant, contact



- 8 -
farmers chosen do not always meet the set criteria, and monitoring of results is very seldom
done. Although staffing positions in nearly all categories have been filled, the serious
shortfall in DTOs and SMOs reduces the effectiveness of the T&V system that relies so
heavily on training and follow-up. A major weakness of the extension activity was the
absence of any monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Without it, it has not been possible to
accurately quantify the contribution the project has made in increasing agricultural
production.
6.2       Establishing a workable extension system is, however, only a means to increasing
agricultural production. In order to achieve increased crop yields, it is important that the
extension service be able to offer farmers proven new messages, and for the farmers to be
keen to adopt these messages. Circumstantial evidence suggests that there has been a
positive response from farmers for extension advice, and that some of the recent increase
in foodgrain (wheat and rice) output in Bangladesh can be attributed to improved extension.
As already noted (para 6.1), in the absence of any survey data and results, it is not possible
to quantify or correlate increased output with extension per se. However given that most
of the output has come from the increased use of irrigation and HYVs of Boro and Aman
rice; and that one of the principal extension messages promoted concerned the adoption of
HYV rice production package, it seems reasonable to attribute at least some of the
increased output to improved extension.
6.3       The appraisal mission assumed that 15% of the anticipated increase in foodgrain
output could be attributed to extension, and on this basis calculated an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) for the Project of 44%. However, deciding what portion of increased
production can be attributed to extension as compared to other inputs has certain
conceptual difficulties. For example, it is difficult to determine what portion of the increase
in use of HYV seeds in Bangladesh is actually due to extension and how much is due to the
increased security of water supply resulting from irrigation. However, if we assume that
even 4% of the actual increase in foodgrain production achieved was the result of improved
extension, it would still result in an ERR for the Project of 14.5%, which would be
acceptable (see Annex A).
6.4       The research components have been particularly disappointing. Serious delays
in the construction of facilities, staff recruitment and equipment supply mean that very little
research has been done to date, with the exception of some useful farming-systems work that
can be attributed to the project.
7. Project Sustainabiliqy
7.1       There is no doubt that the project has strengthened both the extension and
research services of Bangladesh, and that the potential for an effective research/extension
service capable of responding to farmers' needs now exists. The sustainability of both
services will depend essentially on (a) adequate regular funding in future and (b) the
development and flow of new appropriate technologies. As far as staff costs are concemed,



- 9 -
it is encouraging that all DAE extension staff, including those recruited by the project, are
now paid from the regular budget, as are their travel allowances. However, at present over
95% of recurrent budget funds for extension and research go to meet salaries and
allowances, and the balance of 5% left for other operational expenses is totally inadequate.
Unless additional funds can be obtained, perhaps from access to the Upazila Development
Fund, or by making savings, the future of both services will remain in jeopardy.
7.2       If funding problems can be overcome, the main factor affecting sustainability will
be the ability of the research service to generate appropriate new technologies. To a large
extent the apparent success of the project can be attributed to its dependence on the
promotion of relatively simple and profitable rice technologies. It is now generally
recognized that such technologies can be promoted cost effectively in Asia using a large field
force with basic skills and training. The continued cost-effective use of such a field force
depends, however, on a constant flow of new attractive production technologies. In
Bangladesh the evidence to date suggests that few such technologies, with the possible
exception of some new rice varieties, are coming on stream or are being developed by the
research institutes. Overall, therefore, it would seem that at least until the research service
is revitalized the future sustainability of the extension service will depend on making
substantial savings in operational costs, and in promoting relatively simple technologies that
are very location and farm specific. Such savings could be achieved by reducing the number
of field staff, and making increased use of low-cost media communication methods to
disseminate messages (see comments against the proposed Agricultural Support Services
Project under Part III-1).
8. IDA Performance
8.1       The main strengths of IDA were in regular and thorough supervision of the
project, and in particular in coordinating the supervision of three inter-related projects,
namely this project (Cr. 1215-BD), the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1455-BD)
and the Second Agricultural Training Project (Cr. 1396-BD). Its decision to suspend the
project when progress was being impeded by excessive delays in payment of travel
allowances, administrative difficulties arising from the GOB decentralization program, delays
in submission and approval of acceptable Project Proformas, and its insistence on
reformulating and extending the time period of the project to reflect realities and the
subsequent improvements showed that firm management was the right course of action. The
main weaknesses were in over-optimistic assumptions on the expected achievements of the
project, and IDA's decision without adequate prior discussion with the Government, to
include in the project conditionality the merger of the extension arm of the BWDB with
DAE. The other weaknesses of relevance relate to IDA's somewhat weak determination
to ensure that farming-systems research was given a greater priority, and to ensure that the
M&E survey work was actually carried out.
8.2       With regard to the supervision missions, these were made regularly. Some 19
missions were fielded over the life of the project from late 1982 to mid-1991. However,



- 10 -
much of the comment tended to be the same, indicating slow progress. These noted in
particular the lack of location- and condition- specific messages, slow procurement of bikes
and motorbikes, slow disbursement of funds, vacancies in staff positions, and the staff
seniority question. Highlighting of such aspects as delays in payment of extension staff
salaries and non-compliance with covenants had a salutary effect in drawing attention to
serious slippage by the Government. This provided evidence for IDA to take a strong stand
over such shortfalls and in eventually suspending and then reformulating the project. In
most cases, teams of experts in conjunction with the staff of the Resident Mission in
Bangladesh (RMB) undertook the missions, and field visits were normally made.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       Overall the Borrower performed acceptably. Initial delays, following the change
of Government, were understandable. Delays in revising Project Proformas and the
resulting delays in implementation were unfortunate, but were common to most IDA
projects at the time and cannot be attributed exclusively to this project's design or
implementation.  Following reformulation, things improved considerably, and most
implementation targets were achieved. The Borrower did not, however, undertake the
benchmark studies or subsequent M&E surveys called for at appraisal, nor were quarterly
reports submitted by the implementing agencies as originally requested.
10. Lessons Learned
10.1     The main lessons of experience are as given below.
10.2      Project design should ensure where possible that flexibility is built into the
project to cope with the creation of new govermnent institutions.
10.3     As noted in para 8.1 above, it appears to have been unwise for IDA to have
attempted to force the complete merger of the BWDB and DAE extension activities. By
contrast, a stronger line should have been taken to ensure that farming-systems research was
given the priority it deserved; and that staff were appointed for the M&E work to
guarantee that this key component was achieved.
10.4     Project objectives and time-frames should be realistic. It was too ambitious to
set up a research system re-oriented to farming systems research, reorganize the extension
service and, at the same time, to expect relevant research findings to be proven, delivered
by extension, taken up by farmers, and yields raised all within a time-frame of five years.



- 11 -
11. Adherence to Covenants
11.1     Most of the project covenants and requirements were complied with. However,
the covenant calling for an assessment of the nature and extent of the agricultural research
station network was not fully complied with, and the requirement for two or three evaluation
sample surveys of 1,000 respondents was not undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture. The
covenant calling for the merger of the BWDB and DAE extension activities was also only
partially complied with.
12. Consulting Services
12.1     The Technical Assistance (TA) component (executed by FAO under project
BGD/79/034) was essential in implementing such a large undertaking. It provided the
support needed in expanding the T&V system to new areas. Through the TA component,
extension manuals and booklets illustrating crop growing recommendations were produced
and distributed to all BSs. Some areas of the work done by the TA component, however,
needed further consideration. These included organizing a career structure for the SMSs,
drawing up an action plan following the T&V workshops, and addressing the problems for
extension caused by the decentralization program and vesting local development in the
Upazila Parishad. An ex-post evaluation of the FAO project noted that fundamental
changes in extension need to be considered by the Government.  These included
determining goals and strategies for extension, reorientation of its assistance towards
disadvantaged groups, better linkages with research, and a manpower planning policy. The
evaluation drew attention to the huge retraining task that had been accomplished, but noted
this had inevitably concentrated on quantity rather than quality. It concluded that the
project did have an impact on enhancing food production capacity, but has not yet had an
impact on improving the farming systems or quality of life of the vast majority of farming
families.
13. Project Relationships
13.1     At the time of project closure, relationships between the Borrower and the Bank
were good, mainly through frequent communication between the implementing agencies and
the staff of the Resident Mission in Bangladesh. However, from correspondence in the files
it seems that relations were a little difficult at the time of project suspension, and later in
1988 when inadequate provision was made in the FY1988/89 Annual Development
Program.



- 12 -
14. Project Documentation and Data
14.1     The Staff Appraisal Report generally provided a useful framework for the Bank
and Borrower during project implementation. However, late incorporation of a covenant
calling for the merger of extension activities of the BWDB with DAE in the Development
Credit Agreement was probably inappropriate. Delays on behalf of the implementing
agencies in preparing and having Project Proformas approved also caused problems.
Quarterly reporting by the implementing agencies was called for at appraisal, but was not
done formally or regularly. All project audits were up to date at the time of credit closure.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1215-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Not submitted.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGEnSH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1215-BD)
PART III: SIAIISICAL JqM&RMATION
1. Related IDA Credits
C-ditfrltle                Prpe               Yer o Approvu           Stab.                 Comma
Cr. 828-BD               Strengthening                    1978            Completed      Closed on time, 94%
Agricultural Rcsearch I    agricultural research,                                        disbursement. BARI facilities
especially facilities,                                          strengthened, and BARCs role
management &                                                    as an apex institution pined
manpower of Bangladesh                                          recognition.
Agricultural Research
Institute (BARI) &
planning, coordination &
monitoring by
Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council
(BARC).
Cr. 1455-BD              Further strengthening of         1984           Scheduled for   Generally satisfactory
Agricultural Research 11   agricultural research                         completion in   implementation, although there
station network, & of                              1992        were delays in use of training
BARI; support to                                               funds & development of
livestock, fisheries,                                          BARC into an effective apex
foresty research;                                              organization disappointing.
provision of funds for
contract researcb &
training.
Cr. 729-BD               To improve extension             1977            Completed      Successful in most respect, &
Extension & Research I    and applied research in                                       laid foundation for improved
the NW Region by                                               extension & research
introducing the T&V                                            cooperation. Some production
system & by providing                                          increas  attributed to projeet
housing, transport &                                           but ERR only 20% cf 50% at
training for staff &                                           appraisal
technical assistance.
Cr. 2233-BD              Further strengthening of         1991             Effective     Extension component centrd
Agricultural Support     extension and adaptive                           Dec. 30, 91    on raising quality but reducing
Services                 research; development of                                        number of field agents and
seed industry & agro-                                          greater use of media to
business initiatives                                           communicate messages. Agro-
business to pilot high value
horticultural exports.



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                    Date Planed                  Date Reived                  Datc Adual
Identification                        04/80                                                     04/80
Preparation                           05/81                                                     05/81
Appraisal                             06/81                                                     06/81
Credit Negotiations                   01/82                                                     01/82
Board Approval                        03/82                                                   03/02/82
Credit Signing                        03/82                                                     03/82
Credit Effectiveness                  06/82                                                   10/21/82
Suspension                                                                                   04 to 10/87 1/
Reformulation                                                                                   04/88
Credit Completion                    06/30/87                    06/30/88                     12/31/91 2/
Credit Closing                       12/31/87                                                 06/30/91
j/ Project suspended due to failure of GOB. to: (i) comply with covenant calling for merger of extension activities
of Department of Agricultural Extension and Bangladesh Water Dcvelopment Board; (ii) administrative difficulties arising
from GOB decentralization program, espedally excessive delays in payment of travel allowances to Block Supervisors; and
(iii) delays in submission and approval of acceptable Project Proformas.
2/ Closing date extended in principle to 1991 at reformulation.



- 16 -
3. Credit Disbursements
IDA                        Disbursement (USS million)
Fiscal Year        Estimated       Actual Cumulative    Actual as % of
Cumulative                              Planned
1983               0.3                 0.60              200
1984               3.4                 2.77               81
1985               9.3                 5.90               63
1986               16.3                9.98               61
1987               22.3               11.03               49
1988               27.0               12.41               46
1989              27.0 1/             12.85               48
1990 2/            27.0               15.64                58
1991               20.0             19.47 3/4/            97
1/ In SDRs it was equivalent to 23.2 million.
2/ On 06/28/90 SDR 5.6 million = US$6.52 million was cancelled.
3/ Final Disbursement was made on November 5, 1991
4/ In SDRs, the actual disbursement was 72% of the estimated project cost.
* Total Cancellation SDR 6,513,894.82



- 17 -
4. Project Implementation
Indcato/Ufnit                       Appsail Estimate            Revied 1/         PCR ActuaI/Estmat
A. Staf   (No.)
1. Additional BS                                           2,270                     -                   95% filled
2. Additional SMO                                            259                      -                  60% filled
3. Additional SMS                                             2                       -                    filled
4. Research Positions                                         13                      -                  80% filled
B. Tnin
1. SMO (3 months) at BARI & BRRI                         Programme                   -                     100%
2. SMS (6 months overseas)                              32.5 man years               -                   not done
3. Researchers short study tours (short courses)         7.5 man years                                 3.75 staff years
4. In servce for each staff                               Programme                                        100%
5. Study tours                                             80 staff                                      not done
C Fowshi1u
1. Ph.D. and M.Sc. overseas                               70 man years                                 65 staff years
D. Procurement
1. Bicycles                                                5,351                     6,351                 5,330
2. Motorcycles                                              470                       970                    810
3. Vehicles                                                   5                        14                    22
4. Bus                                                        -                         1
Researc
1. Bicycles                                                  48                                               80
2. Motorcycles                                               37                                               22
3. Vehicles                                                   11                                              19
4. Farm Equip. (USS)                                      104,000                                         192,000
5. Lab. Equip. (USS)                                      50,000                      -                    75,000
E    vi Wasd
Field, Staff Quarters (nos)                                  750                    1,050                    857
District Officers (nos)                                       3                        19                16 offices
Thana/Upazilla Office                                         30                      -                 9 residences
Training Hall                                                 -                        1
Guest House                                                   -                        1                     -
Rrh
1. Housing (sq ft)                                        54,600                                           40,920
2. Office & Labs. (sq ft)                                 17,775                                           9,600
3. Farm Development (USS)                                577,000                                          600,000
4. Guest House/Dornitories (sq ft)                                                                         19,425
F. Technical Anistne                                     21 tnan years                                   21 staff yeais
1/ Project reformulated in 1988.



- 18 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
.......... .Appl Estimate .......... ............. PCR Estimtes .
Itcm                              1oa           FPR          Total           L1AI         FE 1/            Total
................................. .(USS 00) .
Eztentiom
Equipment & Vehicles               918           781         1,699           1,277          1,046        2,323
Civil Works                      5,136         2,646         7,782           5,484          2,824        8,308
Staff Costs                       9,502         1,035       10,537           5,372           596         5,968
Training                           813           367         1,180           1,206            541        1,747
Sub-Total                    16,369         4=           21,19          13,339           5,07        18,346
Equipment & Vehicles                69           103           172            252            378           630.0
Civil Works                       1,225          630         1,855           1,253           645         1,898
Adaptive Research                 1,117          695         1,812            399             266          665.7
Training & Studies                 189           756           945            265           1,060        1,326
Sub-Total                     2,600         2,184         4,784          2,169           2,349        4,518
Technical Assistance               121          2,290        2,411            270           5,130        5,400
Monitoring & Evaluation            268            17           285              -               -            -
Sub-Total                       389         2,307         2,696            2X            5,130        5,400
Total Base Cost               19,358        9,320        28,678          19,079          9,185        28,264
Physical Contingencies        1,283           632         1,915                             -             -
Price Contingencies           7,356         2,972        10,328                             -             -
Total Cost                   27,997        12,924        40,921          19,079          9,185       24264
.1/ Actual FE expenditure estimates based on percentage FE estimates in SAR.



- 19 -
B. Project Financing
Soum                                      Plannd                        Funl                  %
MDA E    _zeitue                                                           USS 1/
SDR             USS
........................ US$VW  .......................
1. Civil Works                                               10,740        12,500            8500                  68
2. Equipment & Vehicles                                       2,150         2,500            2,350                 94
3. Consultant Services                                         320           370                 -                  -
4. Training                                                   1,400         1,630            2,880                177
5. Staff Salaries                                             6,450         7,510            5,270                 70
6. Research Projects                                           860          1,000             400                  40
7. Unallocated                                                1,280         1,490                -
Total IDA                                                 23,200        27,000         19,400 3/                72
Co-financing (UNDP)
1. Expatriate T. Asat.                                                      3,000            5,400                180
Total UNDP                                                               3,000            5,400                180
Domestic (GOB) 2/
1. Extension                                                                8,900            2,250                 25
2. Researmb, Monitoring & Evaluation                                        2,000            1,214                 60
Total GOB                                                               10,900            3,4604/               32
Total Poje ctoam                                                          40,900         28,260                 70
1/ GOB proportion of expenditure based on budgeted GOB contributions indicated in Project Proforma documents, and known
expenditures.
2 Includes USS3.789 million in duties and taxes
./ SDR 5.6 million (approx USS7.4 million) was cancelled on June 28, 1990 and  the balance of SDR 0.9 million (approx USS1.3
million was cancelled effective November 5, 1991. (US dollar amounts financed and cancelled exceed original planned dollar total
due to increased value of the SDRI)
i/ Some Tax & Duty payments outstanding at end Oct 1991.
Note: No changes were made to the withdrawal categories, as per Schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement, nor in the
amount of credit allocated to the categories The reformulation consisted, therefore, largely of a reallocation of funds within the
extension component.



- 20 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benef
Indicator                     Appraisal Estimate     Estimate at Closing Date
Jobs Created
1. Block Supervisors                2,270                    2,155
2. Upgrading to SMO                  200                       120
3. Recruitment of SMO                 60                       35
4. Recruitment of SMS                  2                        2
5. Assistant Res. Director             1                        1
6. Scientific Officers (SO)           12                        10
Increased Production
Foodgrains (m tons)                 0.441/                    0.35V
1/ At appraisal, project area was 62% of Bangladesh land area, and 15% of anticipated
increased foodgrain production in this area was attributed to extension.
2/ By Closing Date, project area had been increased to include all of Bangladesh except
Chittagong Hill Tracts. Indicative calculation performed on the assumption that 4% of
national incremental rice and wheat output over period 1983-1991 can be attributed to
extension.
B. Economic ImRact
Economic                        Appraisal                  Current
Estimate
Rate of Return %                    44                      14.5
Appraisal estimate assumed 15% of anticipated increase in foodgrain output could be
attributed to extension. Current estimate is an indicative calculation of the effect of an
assumption that 4% of the actual incremental rice & wheat output between 1983-1991 can
be attributed to improved extension, especially the increased planting of HYV Boro rice,
and that all project costs are included in the analysis even though it is almost certain that
the research component has contributed little if anything to date to increased output.
Comments: It is not possible to correlate increased output with improved extension,
especially in the absence of baseline and subsequent M&E surveys. However, there is good
circumstantial evidence to suggest that at least some farmers have adopted new technologies
(e.g., HYV and increased fertilizer usage) associated with irrigated Boro rice production as
a result of demonstrations and BS visits. Figures for national increased output have been
taken from the recent IDA Bangladesh Food Policy Study documents. Data on crop
production costs were supplied by the September 1991 Asian Development Bank Bola I
PCR mission.



- 21 -
C. Financial ImRact
Not applicable
D. Studies
Not applicable



- 22 -
7. Status of Covenants
Major Covenan
Seci   Sectio  1/ Orgnal Dat  RRved Date                De        O t CAvenat                     Comments
3.01A    OK         -             09-15-87       Due Diligence
3.03A    OK         -             -              Establish DAE & provide it with adequate
staff
3.03B    OK         06-30-83      .              Merger of extension functions of five
former agencies of MAF to form DAE by
June 30, 1983.
3.03C    PROG       06-30-83      09-15-87       Merge BWDB Extension into DAE by       Action has been initiated to
June 30, 1983.                         transfer extension staff to DAE
from completed BWDB
projects.
3.05    OK          06-30-83   X                 Extension Manual issued by June 30, 1982.
3.06    Partial     09-30-82                     Borrower shall prepare and furnish
I__________ Training Program by September 30, 1982.
3.07A    OK         12-31-82      1147-83        By December 31, 1982 appoint an
As odate Director for BARI's farming
systems research division.
3.07B    OK         12-31-82      03-31-82       By December 31, 1982 undertake an
analysis of its off-farm research work.
3.07C    OK         -             -              By December 31, 1982 and by December
31 of each year furnish to the Association
its annual off-farm research program.
3.08A    OK         12-31-82      -              By December 31, 1982 carry out a review    Only partially complied with
of research stations.                  and not pursued by IDA
Supervision Missions
3.08B    OK        -              -              No new construction until assessmcnt has
been completed.
4.02    OK                        -              Unaudited financial statements in three
months and audited statements in six
months for BARI, BARC, BRRI and
PIW; and nine months for DAE.
4.04    OK                                      Adequate housing and offices and rental
allowance.
4.05    OK                        -              Credit for purchases of motorcycles and
bicycle.
4.05B    OK                       09-15-87       Make available appropriate travel
allowance.
1/ OK = Covenant Complied with



. 23 -
8. Use of IDA  esoures
A. Staff Ipts (weeks)
PRE-
TASK            FY81 FY31  FY2 PYI3 FY4 FYV   FY16 FY17 FYE   FYN  FY90 FY91 FY92  FY93  T(OTAL
Prpartion       10.2  74.1    LI                                                                             860
Appruisal             14.1  56.1                                                                             70.2
Negotiations                  3.4                                                                             3.4
Supervision                   4.6  16.8  27.7  24.9  9.3   20.4  193   8.9   6.8   4.2   .0                 142.9
PCR                                                                                .6          4.4            5.0
TOTAL           10.8  81.2   65.2  168   27.7  24.9   93   2.4  193    .9   7A    42    4.4            -    3075
B. Missons
State of Prioct Cycle   Monl    No. of Perumm    Days in   Speciutioa                Overll       Type of Probbmla
Yar                         Field                             PerfomiAncs
Rag
Idazzficatioa 11       04/J0
Priparecion 21        05/11I
Appaisl                02/t1
Supervasio  1          10/12     2                 7          Fnancial Anayst        2            PF
Loan Officer
Supervision 2          04t3      3                 11         Project Officer (RL'v)    2         PF
Agric. x 2
SupervisioS3           11UU3     3+2PT             12         S. Fuiacial Aayg       2             PF
Agncc.
Rual Dev. Offcer
S. Agrie.
Loan Officer
Supervision 4          04J4      3 (R}VL)          17         Proj. Officer, Sr.Agric..   2       PF
Agric.
Supervision 5          10/S4     3 + I (RMM)       t          Project Officer        2             MCFP
Sr. Agric. x 3
Supervisioa 6          02.0345   5 3/              17         Project Officer        2            MFP
Sr. Agric. x 3
Supervision 7          10/I5     2                 19         Sr. Agric.             2            MFP
Se. Agric.
Supervisiou S          02/16     3                 Is         Agric.                 3
Arie.
Sup rviuioe9           0-09/16   2 +1 (RM8)        14         Agriec.                4
Agiec.
Agric.
Supervisiou 10         03-047   3                  22         3 x Agric.             4
Supervision I l        12/1       1 (b)                       Sr. Agrc.
Supervision 12         03-04/1t  3 RdM8)           35 4/      Se. Aric.              3
ExL & Tiniing
Supervision 13         10-11/tt  1 (%m3)           25
Supervision 14         0344/S9   1 Xl8)            2S 5/      Se. Agric.             2
Super:kion t5          C -I/o/S9   1 (P2)          20         S. Agric.              2
Supervision 16         05/90     1 (RVm)                      Sr. Agric.             2
Supervisioa 17         07/90     1   M)            6          Sr. Agrc.              2
Supervision 18         07191 1i (RJa)              S          Sr. Agric.             2
Supervisioa 19         06-07/91   1 (Rl>)          10         Sr. Agriec.            2
Ik. Eng.
1/ MA: Project 8def FAO/CP
2/ FAO/CP
31 Re orniuLaio ttiscion.
4/ RefomrulatioL aisuion.
5I Rcview mission.
PT - Part Time; P - Politcal; F   F-uaocial; M -Managetrial.






- 25 -
BANGLADESH: Agricuitunl Extension and Research U Project
Annex A: Indicative Calculauon of Project Economic Benefit
ANNEX A: INDICATIVE CALCULATTON OF PROTECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS
1.    At appraisal it was estimated that the project would have an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 44%. It was anticipated that the benefits would be derived from
intensifying extension effort leading to more and better use of fertilizers, HYVs and
improved cultural practices which would produce about a 4% increase in project area rice
and wheat production by FY 86/87, over and above the 23% production increase expected
due to other investments in agriculture, especially irrigation. Thus 15 % of the anticipated
increase in foodgrain production was attributed to extension.
2.    It was also envisaged that each implementing agency would monitor its own activities,
and that MAF would undertake evaluation work using sample survey techniques with
emphasis on scientific sample design, accurate data collection and thorough analysis. It was
expected that two to three surveys would be conducted, each with a sample size not
exceeding 1,000 respondents.
3.    In actual fact, this survey work was not done, and the project area was substantially
increased to cover all the country except the Chittagong hill tracts. There is therefore no
project generated data on which to calculate the incremental production that can be
attributed to the project. Even if the surveys had been done, there would have been
conceptual difficulties in determining what portion of incremental production can reasonably
be attributed to extension. For example, if a farmer receives irrigation and extension advice
and decides to switch to HYV seeds, it is difficult to determine what portion of his decision
can be attributed to the extension advice as compared to the greater security of water supply
due to irrigation. Nevertheless, an indicative calculation was done which demonstrates that
even if the portion of increased production of foodgrains which can be attributed to
extension were as low as 4%, the ERR would be acceptable.
4.    In carrying out this indicative analysis it has been assumed: (i) that for the purposes
of such an approximate analysis, the benefits can effectively be attributed to the incremental
output of Boro rice, which has accounted for most of the increase. (Accordingly crop
budgets for Boro rice have been prepared using economic prices for inputs); (ii) that 4%o
of the annual increase can be attributed to extension effort; (iii) that the extension effort
due to the project effectively started in 1983 (the project became effective late in 1982, but
no trained staff were operational until 1983); (iv) that the national yield of Boro rice is
1,100 kg/ac; and (v) that all project costs including Technical Assistance have been taken
into consideration.
5.    Based on these assumptions a benefit stream has been calculated derived from the
gross value of incremental production, less production costs, (see Table 3). In correcting
project costs to 1991 prices it has been assumed that the Foreign Exchange element of the
project is represented by IDA and UNDP contributions (see Table 6).
6.    The resulting analysis an ERR of 14.5%. This indicates that even if only 4% of the
increase in foodgrain production was attributed to extension (as compared to 15% assumed
at appraisal), the resulting ERR would still be acceptable.



- 26 -
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Extension and RewarCh U Project
Annex A. Indicative Calculation of Project Econowic Benefits
Table 1. Economic Analysis
(ERR = 14.5 %)
Year         Incremental Benefit                  Project Cost2/                  Net Cash
Flow
...................... ...........Taka mllion  ........ ........... ......l
1                     -                               69.9                       - 69.9
2                    42.1                              90.4                      - 48.3
3                    80.3                              99.9                      - 19.6
4                    80.0                             102.1                      - 22.1
5                   123.0                             198.9                      - 75.9
6                   119.2                             122.2                       -  3.0
7                   130.0                             128.2                      +   1.8
8                   154.3                             120.3                      +  34.0
9                   175.1                             153.1                      +  22.0
10                   1983/                            132.0                      +  66.0
11                  225                               132.0                      +  93.0
12                  255                               132.0                      + 123.0
13                  290                               132.0                      + 158.0
14                  330                               132.0                      +  198.0
1/  All Costs and Benefits calculated in 1991 price; see Table 5 for Exchange Rates and GDP deflators.
2/  Operating Cost of project after Year 9 estimated on basis of salary costs of additional 2,155 Block
Supervisors.
3/ Benefits from Year 10 assumed to increase at same rate as in last 4 years of project to 1991.



- 27 -
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Extension and Research 1 Project
Annex A. Indicative Calculation of Project Economic Benefits
Table 2. National Foodgrain Production 1983-1991
PY 8    I FY 84  1_ FYK5  I7Y8 I  FY87    190 1     89                                    |  FY n
....................................                        ..................................
Rice              14,217    14,508     14,622    15,041     15,407       15,414      15,544      15,800 1/    16,000 1/
Wheat             1,095      1,211     1,464      1,042      1,091       1,048        1,022       1,000 1/     1,000 1/
Total           15,312    15,719     16,046    16,03       16,498      16,462      16,566      16,8001/    17,0001/
1/ Estimate. Reliable figures only available for 1989.
Source: BANGLADESH: Food Policy Review - Volume 11 - Annexes (Draft August 1991).
Table 3. Incremental Production Due to Extension
FY              Productio|       4% Due to           AGn of           GS5    Podutdion Coas          Nct Rcvwn.e
Iacrem          Etcnioa          Productio        Rceauen  1/               3/     ( emeat)
.......     Mew ' 0tric TOM ........         ac 2/                   (millions of Taka) .............
83
84                    407              16.28           14,800             108.5             66.4             42.1
85                     774             30.96           28,145             206.5            126.2             80.3
86                    771              30.84           28,036             205.7            125.7             80.0
87                   1,186            47.44            43,127             316.4            193.4            123.0
88                   1,150            46.00            41,800            306.8             187.6            119.2
89                   1,254             50.16           45,600             334.5            204.5            130.0
90                   1,488             59.52           54,110             396.9            242.7            154.3
91                   1,688             67.52           61,382             450.3            275.3            175.1
1/ Economic pnce of rice Tk 6.67/kg, July 1991.
2/ Yield estimated at 1.1 metric tons/acre.
3/ llk 4,485 per acre, see Table 4 for derivation.



- 28 -
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Extension and Research 11 Projet
Annex A: Indicative Calculation of Project Economic Benefits
Table 4. Crop Budget - Boro (Economic Prices)
(Tk/ac)
Gross Value of Production                                                  Tk
Paddy                               1,100 kg at Tk 6.67                   7,337
Total
Production Costs
Urea                               28 kg at Tk 7.24/kg                      201
TSP                                11 kg at Tk 9.12/kg                      100
MP                                 4.6 kg at Tk 8.02/kg                      36
Pesticides                         0.5 kg at Tk 560/kg                      280
Seed                               15.0 kg at Tk 5.6/kg                      84
Draft Power                        16 days at Tk 48/day                     768
Labor                              63 day at Tk 32/day                    2,016
Irrigation                              (estimate)                         1,000
Total                                                                   4,485
Net Crop Value                                                          2,852
Economic Prices used are based on those prepared for the Asian Development Bank Bola
I Project Completion Report prepared in October 1991.



BANGLADESH: Agricultural Extension and Research 1I Project
Annex A: Indicative Calculation of Project Economic Benefits
Table 5. Exchaige Rates and Bajladesh GDP Deflators
1981/82     1962/83   1  M/84       1964/85      195/86      1986/87     16W8        196/89      1969/90     1990/91
Exchange Rates Tk/USS "               20.1        23.4         25.0        26.7        29.2        30.7        31.3         32.0        35.0        36.0
GDP Deflators "/                      63.3        71.3         74.9        87.2       100.0         111          121         133         146         158
Factor for 1991 Price                 2.49        2.26        2.10         1.81        1.58        1.42        1.30         1.19        1.08         1.0
Conversion
manufacturing                                       66           64          65          76          84           90          89          95         100
Unit Value
1/          From  IMF  International Financial Statistics,  May  1990  and  Yearbook  1989, Two-Year Midpoint  of the
Annual Average  (rf).
2/          Bangladesh  Bureau of Statistics  and IMF International Financial Statistics, Yearbooks 1987, 1990 and
October, 1991 issue.



- 30 -
BANGLADESH: Agricultural Extension and Rserch 1 Project
Annex A; Indicativre Calculation of Project Economic Benefits
Table 6. Project Cost in 1991 Prices
FY         juuto           Fore                                    GM          Fore4a        LOWal     Towa Poujeuu
E_  I E "  I                                            a Ddl    R I CaI q  Cost
............. Ira" Tmi    .............A dju     t 1991to                               PA
L ........... ......Ta           . millio .
83         43.61             38.37            5.24       66        2.26         58.1         11.8           69.9
84         55.57              48.9            6.67       64        2.10         76.4         14.0           90.4
85         63.63             55.99            7.64       65        1.81         86.1         13.8           99.9
86         75.73             66.64            9.09       76        1.58         87.7         14.3          102.1
87        163.31              143.7          19.61       84        1.42        171.1         27.8          198.9
88        107.70              94.7            13.0       90        1.30        105.3         16.9          122.2
89        119.99             105.6            14.4       89        1.19         111.1        17.1          128.2
90        114.03             100.3            13.7       95        1.08         105.5        14.7          120.3
91        153.16             134.8           18.36      100         1.0         134.8        18.36         153.16
/   Based on IDA  and UNDP contributions.



