Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          EfiL       C4' y
Report No. 3654-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
February 2, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =       Tk 18.0
Tk 1         =      US$0.0556
Tk 1 million =      US$55,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
f
1 acre (ac)             =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 bigha                 =      0.33 ac
1 mile (mi)             =      1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq.mi)  =       640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)             =      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)                   82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)      =      26.8 md
1 seer                  =      0.9325 kg
1 cubic foot per
second (cusec)        =      0.0283 cu meters per second
M                       =      million
B                       =      billion
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIS       -    Agricultural Information Service, MAF
ARP       -    Agricultural Research Project
ARTP      -    Agricultural and Rural Training Project (IDA-Credit 621)
ATI       -    Agricultural Training Institute
BARC      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, MAF
BARI      -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, MAF
BAU       -    Bangladesh Agricultural University (Mymensingh)
BBS       -    Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BJRI      -    Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
BRRI      -    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, MAF
CDB       -    Cotton Development Board, MAF
CERDI     -    Central Extension Resources Development Institute, MAF
DAJ       -    Directorate of Agriculture (Jute)
DAE       -    Department of Extension, MAE
DEM       -    Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management), MAF
DG        -    Director General, DE
EARI      -    Extension and Research I Project (Cr. 729-BD)
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FSRD      -    Farming Systems Research Division
FW        -    Future with Project
FWO       -    Future without Project
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
GTI       -    Graduate Training Institute (Mymensingh)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HDB       -    Horticulture Development Board
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties
IADS      -    International Agricultural Development Service
IJCS      -    Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
JFA       -    Jute Farmers' Association
LIV       -    Locally Improved Varieties
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MLGRDC    -    Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
MTFPP     -    Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
OFTD      -    On-Farm Trials Division
PP        -    Project Proforma
PTW       -    Project Implementation Wing, MAF
PPD       -    Plant Protection Directorate, MAF
SFI       -    Soil Fertility Institute, MAF
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TDB       -    Tobacco Development Board
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
T&V       -    Training and Visit
UINDP     -    United Nations Development Program
WDB       -    Water Development Board
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
ADA       -    Assistant Director Agriculture, DE
ADEO      -    Additional Thana Extension Officer
ASEO      -    Assistant Thana Extension Officer
DTO       -    District Training Officer
EA        -    Extension Agent includes UAA, VEA and JEA.
JEA       -    Jute Extension Agent
PSO       -    Principal Scientific Officer, BARI
RDA       -    Regional Director of Agriculture
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
SO        -    Scientific Officer (Research Sub-station)
SSO       -    Senior Scientific Officer
TEO       -    Thana Extension Officer
UAA       -    Union Agricultural Assistant
USA       -    Union Statistical Assistant
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman     -    Rice planted before or during the monsoon (which begins
in June) and harvested in November or December (B. aman
is broadcast, T. aman is transplanted).
Aus      -    Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is transplanted).
Boro     -    Rice planted in winter and harvested during April to June.
Char     -    Low-lying sandy land.
Kharif   -    Summer season.
Paddy    -    Unhulled rice.
Rabi     -    Dry season.
Administrative Units for Agricultural Extension
Number    Ratios of Administrative Levels and Farm Families
Divisions             4    1 division : 5 districts : 2.25 M farm families
Ag. Districts        21    1 district : 20 thanas    : 500,000 farm families
Thanas             430    1 thana    : 20 blocks    : 22,000 farm families
Blocks (approx)  8,600    1 block    :  7 villages  :  1,000 farm families
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



-iii-
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTR.ODUCTION.                                                           ..............-------- --------- .................. 1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.1
Foodgrain Production: Trends, Prospects and Constraints. .             1
The Agricultural Research System.                                      3
- Research Institutions          ..                                  3
- Research Performance.                                              4
- Problems and Constraints.                                          4
The Agricultural Extension System        ..                            5
- Organizational Structure - DEM.                                    5
- Organizational Structure - DAJ ...............................   6
- Operation and Management of Extension Services.                    6
- Future Prospects and Strategy.                                     7
- IDA Involvement-Extension and Research I Project.                  7
III.  THE PROJECT AREA.9
Select:Lon Criteria.                                                   9
P6pulation and Land Use. 
Climat.                                                                9
Farm S:ize .....................................-.---.10
Input Supply .---------------------------- 10
Production, Yield and Marketing ............................          10
IV.  THE PROJECT ......................................................-11
A. Objective and Strategy .--------------- 11
B. Brief Description .------------------ 11
C. Detailed Features .---------------- 12
- Extension Methodology .--------------- 12
- Incremental Extension Staff Requirements ...................  13
- Training of Extension Staff ................................  14
- Extension Staff Mobility ...................................  15
- Extension Civil Works ..........................                15
- Research Station Development ..........................         16
- Adaptive Research ........................................17
- Research Staff Training ...................................   18
- Technical Assistance ......................................18
D. Project Cost .-..-------..-- 18
E.  Proposed Financing ...........................................-20
F.  Procurement .......................--------.21
G. Disbursement .------------ 22
H.  Budgeting, Accounts and Audit ................................  23
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to Bangladesh in
June/July 1981 comprising of Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha (Mission Leader),
A. Pritchard (S. Agriculturist), M. Brown (Agricultural Economist),
A. Felleke (Agriculturist), Ms.. E. Schaengold (Loan Officer) and
J. Kulski (Consultant-Architect).



-iv-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COORDINATION ..........................    24
Department of Extension ..........................................    24
Other Implementing Agencies ......................................    25
-  Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute (BARI) ..............    25
-  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) .....................    26
-  Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council (BARC) ................    26
-  Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of MAF ......................    27
Research-Extension Linkages ......................................    27
Extension Linkage with Farmer Groups and Cooperatives ............    27
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................                              27
Implementation Schedule ..........................................    28
VI.  YIELD, PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........................    28
Technical Impact ...................  28
Fertilizer Usage ................---------- 28
Yield Increase ...................................................    29
Crop Budgets .....................................................   -30
Adoption Rate ....................................................    30
Production and Financial Benefits ................................    31
Fiscal Impact .............-.-.---------------.-.................    31
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................    32-
Project Justification ............................................-   32
Economic Analysis ......................-----------------.                       32
Sensitivity Analysis .............................................    33
Project Risk .....................................................    33
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................................    34
Annexes
Annex 1. Organization and Implementation Charts
2. Project Costs and Disbursement
3. Production, Farm Budgets and Economic Analysis
4. Project Files
Text Tables
2.1 Foodgrain Production
2.2 DEM-Existing Field Organization
4.1 Incremental Extension Staff
4.2 Project Cost
4.3 Inflation Rate
4.4 Financing Plan
6.1 Fertilizer Usage
6.2 Crop Yields
6.3 Crop Budgets
6.4 Project Area Adoption Rate
6.5 Production and Financial Benefits
7.1 Switching Values



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises an Extension and Research Project in
Bangladesh's Agriculture Sector. The project is part of the Government's
development strategy which emphasizes increasing agricultural sector
productivity. The proposed project is based on the experience achieved
under IDA Assisted Extension and Research I Project (Cr. 729-BD) and
extends that concept to cover about 70% of the Agricultural Districts of
Bangladesh. The project preparation work was started in August 1980 by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest (MAF) assisted by the FAO/World
Bank, Cooperative Program (FAO-CP) and the International Agriculture
Development Service. The project preparation report was received by the
Bank in May 1981. An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. T.P.N. Sinha
(Mission Leader), A. Pritchard (S. Agriculturist), M. Brown (Agricultural
Economist), A. Felleke (Agriculturist), Ms. E. Schaengold (Loan Officer)
and J. Kulski (Consultant-Architect) visited Bangladesh in June/July 1981.
This report is based on the findings of this mission.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Bangladesh with an area of 15 million hectares of predominantly
fertile deltaic soil and ample groundwater, is well endowed with agricul-
tural resources. Agriculture dominates economic activity employing about
three-fourths of the work force and directly accounting for about half of
GDP and over three-fourth of exports. Because of high population density
(620 per sq km) and small size farms (49% less than 1 ha), the agriculture
is subsistence oriented. Foodgrain crops predominate with rice covering
over three-fourths of the 13M ha cropped area, and crops contribute about
three-fourths of agricultural GDP.
Foodgrain Production: Trends, Prospects and Constraints
2.02      Status and Trend:  Agricultural production grew very slowly in
the 1950s and 1960s with rice production growing at only 0.7% and 2.5% per
annum respectively. This was far out-stripped by population growth of
about 3% per annum. In the early 1970s production received a further
set-back due to the unsettled political situation.  As a result,
Bangladesh became a major importer, with foodgrain imports averaging about
1.8M tons annually. Recently, with improved utilization of groundwater,
fertilizer and improved seeds, production has increased at about 3.5% per
annum (Table 2.1).



-2-
Table 2.1 Foodgrain Production
Year                             Average Annual
Production      Yield
(M long tons)   (tons/ha)
FY 1961-65                        9.7          1.09
FY 1966-70                       10.8           1.10
FY 1971-75                       10.8          1.10
FY 1976-80                       12.8           1.24
FY 1981(est.)                    15.0           1.26
2.03      Constraints:  Most arable land area in Bangladesh is already
exploited.  Future foodgrain production increases will have to come
through increases in cropping intensity, and crop yields. The main con-
straints limiting agricultural productivity are:
a.  Environmental Characteristics:  The rainfall pattern is very
skewed. It causes severe floods during the monsoon season
of June-September followed by a long dry season. In addition,
the year round warm weather helps breed pests--a problem that
is increasing with increase in multiple cropping.
b.  Shortage of Inputs:  Prior to 1980, inputs such as fertilizer,
pesticides, wheat seed, some varieties of rice seed, and
credit were in short supply. Recently with privatization of
fertilizer and pesticide distribution the supply position
has improved and this has contributed to increasing yields.
However, there is ample scope for improving efficient
utilization of these inputs for further yield improvements.
c.  Socio-economic Characteristics:  Bangladesh has a highly
skewed land distribution with absentee landlords and
unfavourable tenancy arrangements. This reduces investment
incentives.
d.  Organizational Deficiencies:  Inefficient agricultural
research and extension services have also retarded growth
in agricultural productivity.
2.04      Prospects:  It is unlikely that there will be early improvements
in the socio-economic constraints. However, there is ample scope for
growth in foodgrain production by resolving the other constraints. With
Bank assistance the Government has evolved a medium-term foodgrain produc-
tion plan(MTFPP) which lays major emphasis on a rapid expansion of small
and medium scale irrigation backed by rapid increases and improvements in



-3-
the supply of key inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, improved seeds,
and diesel and electrical energy. To handle the increased volume of
inputs effecLively and without overburdening the budget, the Government
intends to increase private sector participation and to decrease price
subsidies. For efficient utilization of these inputs the Government
intends to strengthen agricultural extension and research.
2.05      Ongoing IDA Activities:  IDA credits for Chandpur II, Barisal,
Karnafuli and Irrigation Projects (Cr. 340, 542, 605, 725-BD); and Shallow
Tubewell, NW Tubewell (Cr. 724, 341-BD) and Low Lift Pump Projects are
helping to increase irrigated area. Drainage and Flood Control Projects
(Cr. 864, 955-BD) will improve water control and reduce farmers' risk,
thereby increasing incentives to invest in higher input new technology.
Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports I & II (Cr. 944, 1044-BD), Cereal Seeds
Project (Cr. 410-BD), and Low Lift Pump Projects will increase fertilizer,
seed, and diesel supply, reduce subsidies, and encourage private sector
participation. The Agriculture Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) is
strengthening agricultural research by strengthening BARI and BARC. The
Extension and Research I Project (Cr. 729-BD) is helping to increase
productivity of these inputs in the North-West, by facilitating a transfer
of technology from research stations to farmers, through intensified
extension and applied research efforts. Similar intensification of exten-
sion and research effort in other high priority areas of the country are
needed to assure efficient utilization of planned investments in irriga-
tion under MTFPP.
The Agricultural Research System
2.06      Bangladesh has an extensive agricultural research system which
started with the establishment of a nucleus agricultural research
laboratory in 1909. However, the research system received severe setbacks
through appropriation of research farm lands for Government buildings in
1962, and from losses of equipment and research directors during the war
of independerLce in 1971. Efforts to rehabilitate research began in 1973,
and much of the losses suffered between 1961-71 have now been overcome.
2.07      Research Institutions:  Bangladesh has developed many special-
ized research institutes which cover rice (BRRI), jute (BJRI), sugar
(SRI), forestry (Fr RI), fishery (Fs RI), tea (TRI) and livestock (LRC).
The other crops and horticulture are covered by the Bangladesh Agriculture
Research Institute (BARI). In addition agricultural research is also
carried out by agricultural colleges and the Institute of Nuclear Agricul-
ture. The large number of institutions involved in research has neces-
sitated formation of the Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council (BARC)
for co-ordination of research activities and the IDA assisted Agricultural
Research Project is strengthening BARC to improve BARC's co-ordination
function.



-4-
2.08      Research Performance:  Research performance has been mixed.
BRRI has registered 11 new high-yielding varieties of rice of which BR3
and BR4 are well-established and BR10 and BRII are rapidly growing in
popularity. These four varieties have performed very well in Interna-
tional Rice Yield Trials, but high yielding varieties now cover only 18%
of the total rice area. With more effective adaptive research and exten-
sion, the area can be further increased. BARI has tested and released
imported wheat varieties. One such variety (Sonalika) has proved very
popular and has been responsible for the quadrupling of the wheat area in
the last five years to a level of about 600,000 ha in 1980/81. JRI and
SRI have concentrated efforts on developing new varieties and have several
promising high-yielding varieties in the pipeline.
2.09     Problems and Constraints:  The main problems and constraints
preventing further improvements in the quality of Agricultural Research
are:
a. Neglect of Regional Adaptive Research: While research agencies
have devoted substantial effort to varietal development and
testing, they have neglected regional adaptive and farming
systems research. Region specific fertilizer and varietal
recommendations have not been developed, except for rice.
In developing fertilizer and varietal recommendations the
financial constraint has been generally neglected, except by
the farming systems group in BRRI and some BARI research in the
North-West region, financed under EARI (Cr. 729-BD) Project.
The proposed project will address this problem (para 4.14).
b. Fragmentation: The large number of research institutions have
sometimes led to duplication of facilities and research effort.
Therefore, BARC has been created to co-ordinate investment in
research. The IDA assisted Agriculture Research I Project is
strengthening BARC. However, BARC's relationship with research
institutions needs to be further improved.
c. Quality of Manpower Training: Many of the research scientists
lack post-graduate training which adversely affects the quality of
their research work. The IDA assisted Agriculture Research I Project
and a USAID assisted research project are providing foreign
training for BARI staff, but further training is required.
Also more practical orientation in local post-graduate training
should be introduced.
d. Research Station Utilization: About 52 research stations of
various kinds covering most of the agro-ecological zones are
operated independently by the numerous research institutions
and offer only limited facilities to other research organizations.



-5-
Consequently, the tendency is to wastefully duplicate the research
substation network. In future, new research station construction
should be discouraged, and sharing of facilities encouraged
(para 4.13).
The Agricultural Extension System
2.10     Agricultural extension in Bangladesh has a long history with the
establishment of the Directorate of Agriculture in 1906, now the Direc-
torate of Agriculture - Extension and Management (DEM). The initial
emphasis was on regulation of jute area. Later, numerous other extension
agencies were started in support of special thrust programs. Within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF), agencies with extension func-
tions include the Plant Protection Directorate, the Directorate of
Agriculture - Jute Production (DAJ), the Tobacco Development Board, the
Horticulture Development Board and the Cotton Development Board. Outside
the Ministry, the Water Development Board, the Tea Board, the Sugar and
Food Industries Corporations, and the Directorate of Livestock also have
field staff which along with input supply and output marketing, also give
technical advice. Amongst these, DEM with about 5,200 village level
extension agents (EA) and DAJ with about 2,500 EA are the two largest
agricultural extension oriented agencies. Together the two agencies
account for about 75% of GOB agricultural extension manpower. GOB policy
now favours the amalgamation of extension services including DEM and DAJ.
2.11      Organizational Structure - DEM:  DEM field staff is organized
following the Bangladesh administrative structure with five
tiers--National HQ, Region, District, Sub-division, and Thana.
Table 2.2 DEM-Existing Field Organization
Office            Supervisor                           Number
National          Director                                 1
Regional          Regional Director                        4
District          District Extension Officer              21
Sub-Division      Sub-Divisional Agriculture
Officer                               64
Thana             Thana Extension Officer                415
Union/Village Extension Agents       5,200
In addition to the field extension staff, DEM also has a training wing
which administers 13 Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI) for a two year
pre-service training of extension agents. The training wing has received
IDA assistance through the on-going Agriculture and Rural Training I
Project (Cr. 621-BD). Under a proposed followup project, the training
wing is expected to be expanded and upgraded into a separate Directorate.



-6-
2.12      Organizational Structure - DAJ:  DAJ field organization has a
much shorter chain of command (Table 2.3), which has helped improve com-
munications and the wider span of control has helped in delegation of
authority and prevented over supervision of field units. This has helped
field staff morale, which has generally been higher than that in DEM.
Office          Sperviso                                Number
National        Director                                    I
Zonal           Assistant Director Agriculture             20
Unit            Jute Extension Officer                    500
Jute Extension Agent                   2,500
The only problem area has been the inadequacy of the support staff at the
National and Zonal levels.  The proposed project will maintain the attrac-
tive features of DAJ organizational structure in the merged extension
service while removing the deficiencies .
2.13      Operation and Management of Extension Services:  Agricultural
Extension in Bangladesh has not been very effective due to many problems
and constraints. These are:
a. Multiplicity of Extension Agencies: Many extension agencies
focused on cash crops (7% of cropped area) have diverted
a disproportionate share (40%) of scarce trained manpower
resources thereby reducing the effectiveness of extension for
the major foodgrain crops such as rice and wheat (82% of
cropped area).
b. Training of extension staff has been poor. Subject matter
support and regular in-service training has been minimal, so
that quite often EA have had very little to teach farmers.
This has affected EA self-confidence, morale and interest
in their job.
c. Multiple Responsibility: Quite often, EA have been given a
multiplicity of tasks, such as collection of agricultural
statistics, input distribution, credit collection and recovery
and marketing of output. Since EA performance is much more
easily measured on amount of inputs distributed and credit
recovered, such activities have claimed the major portion of
EA attention and time while extension effort has suffered.
In addition, input and credit have been subsidized and that
has given EA considerable allocative power, bringing EA
closer to powerful interest groups in the village and
further reducing EA interest in extension work. In fact,



-7-
most of the so called extension agencies could be more
appropriately called input or credit distribution agencies.
d. Supervision: Travel allowance rates have not been revised since
1974. Inadequate travel allowance has reduced staff incentive
and ability to travel. This, in turn, has reduced supervision
of EA, who have limited their contact to a few larger farmers.
Most farmers have not been contacted by any EA in spite of the
multiplicity of such agencies.
e. Theoretical Training: Even though the vast majority of farmers
in Bangladesh are illiterate, quite often agricultural training
of farmers has not been in farmers' field but in classrooms
in thana centers and ATI using blackboard and flip charts.
Such techniques have failed to influence the vast majority of
illiterate farmers.
2.14      Future Prospects and Strategy:  Input supply functions, which
were the major concern of most field organizations in the agricultural
sector, will continue to be very important. With MTFPP stress on input
supply projects, input availability should improve and the input alloca-
tive function of Government extension organizations will become less
important. Also, with fertilizer and pesticide distribution already in
the private sector and greater privatization of other farm inputs expected
in the future, the role of these agencies in input distribution will be
diminished. With better input availability, input utilization will be
more demand constrained than supply constrained, and the role of agricul-
tural extension in creating the demand through farmer training and demon-
stration will have to be stressed. With the medium-term foodgrain plan
stress on reaching foodgrain self-sufficiency and the fact that 82% of the
cultivated area is devoted to rice and wheat, a reallocation of extension
manpower in favour of foodgrain crops also appears necessary. In addi-
tion, high impact technological packages are available mostly for
foodgrain crops such as rice and wheat (para 2.08). In view of this GOB
wishes to merge most of the field staff of five specialized agricultural
agencies (para 5.02) in the first phase of agricultural extension reor-
ganization to be implemented during the proposed project implementation
period (FY83-87).
2.15      IDA Involvement-Extension and Research I Project:  IDA financed
EAR I Project represented the first substantial effort to address some of
the basic problems of agricultural extension in Bangladesh. The project,
located in the five districts of the North-West Bangladesh, has introduced
regular fortnightly training of EA, improved mobility and supervision of
extension staff, and has also improved extension and research
co-ordination. In the two years since project start in FY77/78, wheat
production in the project area increased by 225%--the biggest increase



-8-
recorded by any region in Bangladesh. This compares with increases rang-
ing between 61% and 89% in other regions. In the two years prior to the
introduction of the project, the project area wheat production increase
was only 62% and was less than the 70% increase experienced in the adjoin-
ing South-West region. The project area has also shown the best record of
any region in the growth rate of fertilizer consumption. However, it is
difficult to judge the success of the project by these statistics alone
because of other influences such as weather (drought in 1979/80 was worst
in the project area) and complementary investments in irrigation and
infrastructure. Even then, during field visits, farmers have confirmed
that they have been benefited by advice from EA on method of wheat seed
storage, and fertilizer and pesticide usage. However, some problems were
experienced during project implementation.
a.  Trained Manpower Shortage:  Because of strikes and delays in
construction of training institutes, the intensity of
farm-family (ff) coverage was 1,600 ff per EA until FY80. These
problems have now been overcome and the project target of
1,300 ff per EA was reached in FY81. The intensity is still
low and GOB intends to improve that to about 900 ff per EA
under the proposed project.
b.  Civil Works Construction was delayed due to delays in site
acquisition, local material shortage and local funds constraint.
The construction program also diverted management and staff
attention away from technical issues related to extension work.
Some extension staff preferred rent allowances to GOB provided
housing. Recognizing these implementation problems, the civil
works construction program under the proposed project was
scaled down during appraisal.
c.  Travel Allowance rates continue to be inadequate and have not
been revised since 1974. That continues to hinder supervision
and further improvements in project benefits. However, GOB has
recently introduced a fuel allowance pending revision of the
travel allowance (para 4.09).
d.  Contact Farmers Selection and Adoption:  Initially there were
problems with selection of contact farmers and only about 3
contact farmers (CF) per sub-block were attending EA meetings.,
The problem was noted during an IDA supervision mission in
early 1979, and the mission's recommendations were implemented
by GOB. The attendance level has now improved to about 7 CF
per sub-block.
e.  Training:  Fortnightly EA training was given at sub-divisional
level. EA have experienced problems in attending these
sessions because of their limited access to transport. The



-9--
training method also needs improvement. Under the proposed
project these problems will be addressed by training EA at
the thana level which will involve less travel by EA. More
emphasis will be on practical training. Monitoring of farmer
adoption will also be formalized.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The proposed project will reorganize the agricultural services
and intensify it in 15 out of the 21 agricultural districts of Bangladesh
(Map). The agricultural districts are as follows:
a.  Rajashahi Division:  Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Pabna and
Rajashahi Districts.
b.  Khulna Division:  Kushtia, Jessore and Barisal Districts.
c.  Dacca Division:  Jamalpur, Mymensingh, Kishoreganj, Tangail,
Dacca and Faridpur Districts.
d.  Chittagong Division:  Comilla District.
3.02      Selection Criteria:  The 15 districts were selected mainly on
the basis of their potential for increasing foodgrain production.
Together the 15 districts are expected to contribute 87% of Bangladesh's
increase in foodgrain production during 1981-85, even though they repre-
sent only 62% of Bangladesh land area. They represent the area where most
of the planned investments in irrigation will take place during the Second
Five Year Plan Period. The five districts of EARI project area (Map) will
also be included because of their high potential and a need to further
intensify and consolidate extension activities in that area. Six dis-
tricts were left out because of their limited potential and local resource
and manpower constraints.
3.03      Population and Land Use:  The project area covers 9 M ha with
about 70 M population in 1981. The cropped area is about 10 M ha at a
cropping intensity of about 156%. The project area accounts for about 75%
of Bangladesh's rice area, and about 95% of the jute and wheat areas.
3.04      Climate:  The area has a tropical monsoon climate with mean
monthly temperatures ranging between 64 degrees F in January to about 86
degrees F in May. The annual rainfall averages between 150 inches in
Kishoreganj district to about 65 inches in Kushtia with most districts
receiving about 80 inches. About 90% of the rainfall occurs between May
and October. A distinct dry season prevails between December and March,
when irrigation becomes essential for most boro rice and wheat crops. The
rainfall pattern is very erratic, especially in the north-west where
annual precipitation can vary from 50 to 90 inches. The variability of



-10-
weather and risk of drought and floods induce farmers to grow lower yield-
ing but drought and flood tolerant varieties and also reduces farmer
incentive to invest in inputs. GOB intends to reduce these risks by
increasing the irrigated area from about 15% of project area in 1978/79 to
about 35% by 1984/85, thus creating an opportunity for farmers to change
from the older low yielding varieties to newer high-yielding varieties,
3.05      Farm Size:  Farm sizes are small and range between an average
size of 0.6 ha in Dacca District to about 2.2 ha in Dinajpur District with
an overall average of about 1.2 ha.  About a quarter of the cultivated
area is operated under some form of tenancy arrangement.
3.06      Input Supply:  GOB has recently handed over the retailing of
fertilizer, pesticides and sprayers to the private sector and has reduced
the subsidy for these inputs. Seed is generally retained by farmers
themselves with a GOB owned corporation--BADC--supplying seeds of new
varieties. Short term credit, supplied by nationalized banks, has not
reached most farmers; as a result GOB has established co-operative credit
societies (TCCA/KSS and JFA). The project area has about 28,000 KSS and
20,000 JFA groups with a membership of about one to two million
farm-families. GOB is strengthening rural institutions for credit
delivery through the IDA assisted Jute Project (Cr. 765-BD), the Rural
Development I Project (Cr. 631-BD) and the IFAD assisted South-West Rural
Development Project, all of which are located in the proposed project
area. It is, therefore, expected that the short-term credit constraint
will improve by the end of the project period, so that the more input
intensive and higher return technology could then be transmitted to larger
numbers of project area farmers.
3.07      Production, Yields and Marketing:  Rice is the main crop in the
project area with production of about 9 M tons in 1979/80, about 71% of
Bangladesh production.  Rice yields of about 1.25 tons/ha are close to the
national average.  Jute production at 1.1 M tons and wheat at 0.8 M tons
account for virtually all of Bangladesh production. The crops are
marketed mainly through small traders and village markets.  The Ministry
of Food procures foodgrain ranging between 0.3 to 1.2 M tons annually and
Government owned jute corporations about 0.6 M tons of jute. GOB involve-
ment is primarily at the secondary market level with the small trader
dominating the primary market. The IDA assisted Second Foodgrain Storage
Project is constructing 145,000 tons of storage capacity, most of which
will be in the project area. Farmer co-operatives in the project area are
also being strengthened under the Jute Project to help with primary
marketing of jute and, under Rural Development I Project, to help with
primary marketing of foodgrains.



-11-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objective and Strategy
4.01      The project will support the Bangladesh Medium Term Foodgrain
Production PLan (MTFPP) objective of achieving self-sufficiency in
foodgrain by increasing production of rice and wheat from about 15 M tons
in FY81 to about 18-20 M tons in FY85. The project will ensure that the
MTFPP investments of about US$5 billion in irrigation and agricultural
inputs are utilized efficiently. In line with MTFPP strategy, the project
will put major emphasis on:
a. adaptive research to refine recommendations for optimizing
farmers return and minimizing risks under low cash input
rainfed conditions.
b. cropping systems and command area development research on
farmers' fields in irrigated areas.
c. intensive extension effort on improving yields of rice and
wheat in irrigated areas through changes in cropping pattern,
use of newer higher yielding varieties, optimal use of
fertilizers, identification and solution of trace element
deficiencies, increased pest control activities, and
increased use of supplementary irrigat ion.
d. extension effort in rainfed areas to improve rice and jute
yields basically through balanced fertilizer usage and some
increases in area under the modern high yielding varieties.
B. Brief Description
4.02      The project objectives will be met by the following actions:
a. Improving agricultural extension effectiveness by merging
and reorganizing five existing extension agencies.
b. Intensifying extension work by providing about 2,270 additional
EA, upgrading about 200 EA as extension officers, and by hiring
an additional 60 extension officers.
c. Providing specialized training of about 500 man-years to
extension and research officers.
d. Improving extension and research staff mobility by providing
5,400 bicycles, 500 motorcycles, 23 other vehicles and by
increasing extension staff travel allowance.



-12-
e. Improving extension offices through new construction in 20% of
project districts and thanas and by rehabilitating 750 abandoned
seed stores as housing-cum-offices for 1,500 EA.
f. Improving research facilities by expanding a BARI coconut research
station into a regional station and filling in minor deficiencies
at eight other stations.
g.  Improving adaptive research by reorganizing BARI regional research
and by providing one million dollars in research grants through
BARC.
h. Providing about 21 man-years of technical assistance.
C. Detailed Features
Extension Methodology
4.03      The proposed project will reorganize agricultural extension
services in Bangladesh and will intensify extension work in 15 agricul-
tural districts. The project will systematically and regularly provide
farmers with up-to-date advice on farm practices best suited to their
specific conditions.. The farmers will be visited and advised by an Exten-
sion Agent (EA) at regular intervals. Each EA will have an assigned
territory or block consisting of a set number of farm families. Consis-
tent with project strategy of providing more intensive coverage of
irrigated areas, one EA will cover about 600 farm families in irrigated
areas and about 1,200 farm families in other areas.
4.04      An EA's block will be sub-divided into eight equal groups or
'paras' of about 75 to 150 farm families. The EA will visit each group
regularly on a fixed day once each fortnight. In each group the EA will
try to spread more profitable agricultural technology by demonstrating
the results achieved by farmers on their own farms with their own resour-
ces. To achieve a credible demonstration effect, the EA will concentrate
his effort initially on about 10 contact farmers in each group and will
ensure that the selected contact farmers achieve significantly larger
profits by following his advice. The EA will select contact farmers using
criteria which will enhance adoption probabilities. The EA will closely
monitor adoption of his advice by contact farmers and change either his
advice or the contact farmer, as appropriate, to ensure greater adoption
and credible demonstration effects. The EA will be trained once each
fortnight at existing Thana Training and Development Centers, by thana
level extension and additional extension officers (TEO, ADEO) assisted by
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) from the District office. The training
will consist mainly of practical hands-on training in farmers' fields with
emphasis on a few (2 to 4) recommendations relevant for the then current



-13-
phase of agricultural operations. The recommendations will be con-
centrated on the major crops in that season in the Thana. The training
session will also include feed-back of farmers' current problems and of
farmers' reaction to previous recommendations. The EA performance in the
field will also be monitored through field visits by Assistant Extension
Officers (ASEO) who will each be responsible for about ten EA. ASEO will
spend at least eight days in every fortnight on field visits.
4.05      The thana level training officers will receive periodic train-
ing, at least once every month, at the local research sub-station or
Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) with the help of SMS, research
scientists and ATI instructors. A District Training Officer (DTO) will be
responsible for scheduling and organizing all training of extension staff
in the District.
4.06      The thana offices will report to the district offices headed by
an Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA). Depending on the size of the
district, each ADA will be assisted by two to four Senior Extension
Officers (SEO) for field support, visit scheduling and supervision. A
Deputy Assistant Director of Agriculture (DADA) will be responsible for
personnel, planning, finance, interagency co-ordination, and reporting.
He will free other district level extension officers from office work and
any non extension duties so that they can concentrate their attention on
extension work. District officers other than DADA will spend at least
half their time on field visits. The 21 District offices will report to a
central office of field services in Dacca, headed by a Director of
Agriculture, under a Director General for Agricultural Services (Annex 1,
Chart 2). The extension methodology will be incorporated in an extension
manual. During negotiations GOB gave assurances that an extension manual,
satisfactory to the Association will be issued by June 30, 1982. Project
extension work will be carried out in accordance with the manual.
Incremental Extension Staff Requirements
4.07      The project will increase the intensity of extension work from
the current level of 1 EA per 1,600 farm families to an average of about 1
EA per 950 farm families (600 ff in irrigated area and 1,200 ff elsewhere)
by FY 1986/871. However, the incremental staff requirements will be mini-
mized by the merger of five extension agencies (Annex 1, Chart 1).



-14-
Table 4.1 Incremental Extension Staff
Existing Staff
Others               Net
Requirement         to be             Increment
in 1986/87    DEM  merged  Total    Required
Thana
TEO                     329       265      64     329           -
ASEO & ADEO           1,316       350    707   1,057          259
EA                    8,060    4,275  1,515   5,790         2,270
District
ADA                       15        -      15      15           -
DADA                     15         -      15      15           -
SEO                      50        50      -       50           -
DTO & SMS               160        53    105      158           2
National
Directors                 5         1       4       5           -
Addl & Regional
Directors               7         7      -        7           -
Only about 2,270 additional EA will be required and will be supplied by
the ATI over the next five years.  The existing ATI output of about 950
per year will be sufficient to satisfy the demand.  In addition about 259
thana level extension officers will be required. Of these about 200 will
be promoted from EA ranks and only 60 fresh graduates will be hired from
the universities, over the five year period. To ensure that the required
extension staff is not diverted into parallel extension functions, GOB
gave assurances that the Water Development Board extension staff will not
be increased beyond the level existing as of the date of credit agreement.
Training of Extension Staff
4.08      A lack of regular inservice training has been identified as an
important deficiency of the existing agricultural extension agencies (para
2.13). The years of neglected training and resultant low technical
quality of some of the extension staff will be overcome by extended train-
ing under the project. The project will provide improved facilities for 3
month training of about 793 specialized extension officers (mainly
officers involved in fortnightly training of EA) at Research Stations of
BRRI and BARI. They will be trained mainly on rice and wheat cultivation.
The other extension officers (mainly TEO and ADA) will be provided with
one month training in management and supervision techniques under the
training and visit system. The training will be provided by the training



-15-
and visit extension experts (para 4.16) using the physical facilities at
CERDI and ATI. In addition, annual refresher pre-season workshops will be
provided for about one to two weeks for extension officers at regional
research stations. The project will provide daily allowance ($3 per day)
for extension staff attending the extended training courses and workshops.
The project will also provide incremental investments (mainly training
equipment and dormitory accommodation) and operating costs of BRRI and
BARI ($0.5 M). Subject matter training for about six months each will be
provided overseas to about 65 selected extension officers who wish to
specialize as subject matter specialists. About 80 selected extension
staff will be sent on short study tour to neighbouring countries where the
T&V system is operational. The selection of staff will be based on per-
formance, measured on a point system, which will include factors such as
attendance,punctuality and performance at training sessions, regularity of
visits, farmer recognition and farmers' yield increase. GOB gave assuran-
ces that the details of foreign training selection criteria, including a
point system, will be worked out and submitted to IDA for comments by
September 30, 1982 and the selection of foreign trainees will be following
criteria and procedures acceptable to IDA.
Extension Staff Mobility
4.09      Poor mobility of extension field staff has reduced EA contact
with farmers and reduced supervision and training of EA by extension
officers decreasing extension effectiveness (para 2.13). The project will
provide about 5,400 bicycles for EA, 470 motorcycles for extension
officers, 2 pickups for irrigation agronomists and three 4-wheel drive
vehicles for a central office car-pool to be made available to other
agricultural agencies, when their assistance is required in the field to
support extension work. The bicycles and motorcycles will be provided to
staff on a hire-purchase basis. GOB gave assurances that the terms and
conditions for credit needed to purchase motorcycles and bicycles would be
the same as those under the Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD)
which proved satisfactory. The terms and conditions will be (a) sale
price equal to the C.I.F. price of each item; (b) no interest charge; (c)
payment in 60 equal monthly installments for motorcycles and 36 equal
installments for bicycles. These terms were essential to provide incen-
tive to staff to purchase vehicles for field visits in line with their
official duties. Travel allowances have not been revised since 1974 and
are inadequate. GOB recognizes the inadequacy and has taken steps to
provide a fuel supplement for extension staff until the travel allowances
are revised. GOB gave assurances that travel allowance and rates will be
maintained at adequate levels.
Extension Civil Works
4.10      Some district and thana extension office facilities are inade-
quate, and 3 district offices and 30 thana offices will be constructed



-16-
($1.3 M). GOB is currently constructing central headquarters for exten-
sion agencies which will help physically in consolidating the proposed
merger of extension agencies. The project will help to complete the
construction by providing equipment, furniture and some civil works ($0.5
M). EA housing is inadequate and prevents some EA from living in the
villages where they are posted. From experience gained in EARI Project
it is apparent that the younger EA with no children are able to rent
satisfactory accommodation from farmers, but the more senior EA with
larger families find it difficult and this affects their morale and effec-
tiveness. The project will rehabilitate about 750 dilapidated and aban-
doned seed stores into house-cum-offices for 1,500 selected extension
agents ($5.9 M) who are unable to obtain satisfactory accommodation at
present. Together with about 1,300 houses constructed under EAR I Project
and 500 to be constructed under the Jute Project, the project construction
will provide housing for 42% of EA, which will cover most of those requir-
ing housing. A housing allowance is already available for staff not
provided with housing. During negotiations GOB gave assurances that
adequate housing or rental allowance would be provided.
Research Station Development
4.11     The existing Palm Research Station at Rahmatpur is the only
research station serving the horticultural research needs of Barisal
area--one of the most important horticultural areas in Bangladesh. The
facilities at the station are inadequate and, under the project it will be
developed into a regional station to serve the needs of the zone with a
special emphasis on horticultural tree crops (including coconut and
arecanut). Facilities will be improved to the standards set at other
regional stations by the provision of offices, laboratories, seed process-
ing shed, threshing/drying floor, storage, a guest house, 24 staff housing
units, and farm development. The area under Palms will be restricted to
about 40 acres, mainly for the comparison of new varieties and the produc-
tion of seed of promising hybrids. The remaining 65 acres will be devoted
to experiments on annual horticultural and field crops important to the
zone.
4.12      The regional research stations at Jessore, Jamalpur, Ishurdi and
Hathazari and the sub-stations at Bogra, Thakurgaon, Rangpur and Rajshahi
(Map) are already receiving IDA support. Some additional civil works and
research station development is required in order to make these stations
fully effective. The facilities to be provided vary according to the
individual station requirements but include fencing, farm roads, threshing
floors, drainage, implement sheds and small office blocks (Annex 2). -
About 44 housing units will also be constructed at regional stations of
which 36 will be used for farming systems research staff and 8 by SMS for
extension.



-17-
4.13      initial project proposals for constructing new BARI research
stations at Faridpur and Amla were rejected. The established pattern of
research stations in Bangladesh includes many small mono-crop, poorly
equipped, stations that are often poorly located, ineffective, inefficient
and costly. The latest review of research by an international team recom-
mended a thorough assessment of the agricultural research stations to
determine where additional stations might be needed, which should be
closed and what continuation of research stations will best meet the needs
of the various agro-ecological zones. In spite of this, several
institutes have either proposed or begun construction of new agricultural
research stations. GOB gave assurances that it would promptly carry out
an assessment of its agricultural research stations to determine the
optimal number and location of such stations. The assessment will be
completed and the findings furnished to IDA before December 31, 1982.
Except as IDA may otherwise agree, no new agricultural research stations
will be constructed before the completion of the study other than those
GOB had undertaken to construct in agreements entered into with other
external financing entities or agents before January 1, 1982.
Adaptive Research
4.14      While the On-Farm Trials Division of BARI has carried out trials
on farmers' fields for sometime, its work has not been adequately
integrated with other regional research of BARI. The project will
integrate all regional research in BARI under a Farming Systems Research
Division headed by an Associate Director (para 5.05). The project will
support research at eight new farming systems sites. Initially, the
research will concentrate on the cropping systems component of the farming
systems research. The research will identify constraints to production
increases in farmers' fields and will mobilize research resources to
tackle these farmer oriented problems. Improved practices will be
evaluated on farmers' fields before release through the extension service.
The staff required will be one Associate Director, 4 PSO, 12 SSO, 16 SO,
and 48 field assistants. Most of these positions will be filled by exist-
ing staff of On-Farm Trials Division (OFTD), and the incremental require-
ments will be for one Associate Director, one PSO, 6 SSO and 5 SO. The
staff will also assist in training extension staff with about five SSO
specifically designated for that purpose. One car, 12 pickups, 8 tempo
(3-wheeler), 29 motor-cycles and 48 bicycles will be provided for tran-
sport of research material and staff. The motor-cycles and bicycles will
be sold to staff on hire-purchase terms similar to those for extension
staff. Support will also be provided for special adaptive research
projects including research on water management and problems of irrigated
agriculture at three sites on farmers' fields to be conducted by BRRI-
($0.5 M), a survey of deepwater rice ($0.1 M) and cropping systems
research work managed by other research institutions ($0.2 M).



-18-
Research Staff Training
4.15      BARI is short of staff with post-graduate training.  The project
will support a program of foreign training initiated under the Agricul-
tural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) and provide 70 man-years of PhD and
MSc level training ($1 M). Short five month courses in cropping systems
at IRRI will also be provided for about 18 staff (US$0.1 M). GOB gave
assurances that the detailed foreign training program for research staff
will be sent to the Association for its comments by September 30, 1982.
Technical Assistance
4.16      The project will provide about 21 man-years of technical assis-
tance at about $10,000 per man month to cover the full cost of consultant
services including travel and overhead expenses. Two experts in the
training and visit system of extension will be provided to help with the
introduction of T&V in Khulna and Dacca divisions. They will provide
on-the-job training and help reQrient staff into the T&V pattern of exten-
sion. About sixty man-months of technical assistance will also be
provided to help improve research and extension co-ordination in Dacca and
Khulna Divisions on the same successful pattern as the assistance cur-
rently being provided in the Rajashahi Division. Short-term consultancies
will be provided to help with the reorganization of extension services and
strengthening of support services. DEM assisted by UNDP/FAO, is currently
developing detailed terms of reference for these consultants. GOB gave
assurances that it would consult with IDA on the terms of reference of the
consultants required for these services.
D. Project Cost
4.17      The detailed project cost estimates are in Annex 2 (Tables 1-23)
and are summarized below.



Table 4.2 Project Cost
Thousands of Takas                     Thousands of US$
Local    Foreign         Total        Local    Foreign          Total       FE(%)
Extension
Equipment & Vehicles                 16,519      14,071        30,591           918         781        1,699      46
Civil Works                          92,456      47,629       140,085        5,136        2,646        7,782      34
Incremental Staff Costs             171,028      18,623      189,651         9,502        1,035       10,537      10
Training                             14,635       6,598        21,233           813         367        1,180      31
Sub-total                           294,639      86,921      381,560        16,369       4,829        21,198      23
Research
Rahmatpur RS                         15,606       8,136        23,742           867         452        1,319      34
Other RS                             10,503       6,552        17,055           584         364          948      38
Adaptive Research                    19,916       6,106        26,022        1,106          339        1,445      23
Training                                 771     18,514        19,285            43       1,029        1,072       96
Sub-total                            46,796      39,308       86,104         2,600       2,184         4,784      46
Technical Assistance                  2,170      41,222        43,392           121       2,290        2,411      95
Monitoring & Eval.                    4,839          309        5,148           268          17          285        6
Total Base Cost                     348,444    167,760        516,204       19,358        9,320       28,678      32
Physical Contingency                 23,103       11,383       34,486        1,283          632        1,915      33
Price Contingency                   132,403      53,489       185,892        7,356        2,972       10,328      29
Total Cost                          503,950    232,632        736,582       27,997       12,924       40,921      32
Less Duties and Taxes                68,203            -       68,203        3,789            -        3,789        -
Net Project Cost                    425,797    232,632        668,379       23,208       12,924       37,132      36
5===== =====       =====         a=====      ======          ===



-20-
The base costs are expressed in December 1981 Takas and include local
duties and taxes. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% for civil
works and 5% for other costs. Price contingencies are applied at the
following rates.
Table 4.3 Inflation Rate(%)
Civil          Other Costs
Year                Works        Local      Foreign
1982                  15           10         8.5
1983                  12           10         8.0
1984 onwards          12           10         7.5
Previous experience in Bangladesh has shown that the rate of cost increase
for civil works is higher than that for other local products and services
due to high demand for civil works, growing scarcity of construction
materials such as wood and aggregates, and exodus of skilled manpower to
the Middle-east.
E. Proposed Financing
4.18      The proposed IDA credit is $27 M which will cover 73% of the
project cost, net of duties and taxes.
Table 4.4 Financing Plan
Category                          GOB      IDA    UNDP       Total
Extension                         8.9       22.0      -       30.9
Research, Monitoring and
Evaluation                      2.0        5.0      -        7.0
Technical Assistance                -          -    3.0        3.0
Total                            10.9 1/    27.0   3.0        40.9 1/
I/ Includes $3.8 M in duties and taxes.
UNDP wishes to finance the technical assistance component on grant terms
with FAO as the executing agency. They currently have an FAO executed
technical assistance program in support of Agricultural Extension in
Bangladesh. They would like to continue that program in future, as a
component of the proposed Extension and Research II Project so that there



-21-
would be a better co-ordination between physical investment activities and
technical assistance. Execution and delivery of the UNDP project document
will be a condition of effectiveness.
F. Procurement
4.19      Civil Works:  Project civil works ($9.6 M) will consist mainly
of small housing rehabilitation scattered at about 800 sites throughout
the country. These will not interest foreign bidders, and will be
procured by Local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Suitable local construction firms exist in sufficient numbers to ensure
adequate competition.
4.20      Goods:  Motorcycles and bicycles ($1.1 M) will be sold to about
6,000 government employees on hire-purchase. These will be procured
consistent with the preferences of the staff to whom such motorcycles and
bicycles are to be provided. Price quotations will be invited from
manufacturers and supplied to eligible employees. Choices indicated by
the employees will be collated and orders placed with the foreign manufac-
turers through their local agents. Only brands manufactured in member
countries wiLl be eligible. Other vehicles and equipment worth $0.8 M
will be grouped to the extent feasible in packages of $50,000 equivalent
or more to increase competition in bidding. These will be awarded on the
basis of ICB in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Small
items worth less than $10,000; which cannot be grouped to form packages of
$50,000 or more, will be purchased following prudent shopping procedures.
These will not exceed $0.3 M in aggregate.
4.21      Services:  Incremental operating costs ($11.5 M) will consist
of staff salaries, allowances and equipment operating costs. Staff are
hired following Government procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Tech-
nical assistance specialists and services ($2.7 M) will be required, and
GOB gave assurances that it would consult with IDA on the terms of
reference of the consultants required for assisting in the execution of
the project. Research grants ($0.9 M) to qualified institutions will be
made using criteria similar to those agreed under the IDA assisted
Agricultural Research Project. Foreign training for research staff ($1.1
M) will be arranged by BARC and for extension staff ($0.3 M) by DEM at
institutions acceptable to IDA. The remaining costs ($0.4 M) are for
allowances during local training.
4.22      Contract Review:  About 200 bidding packages/contracts are
expected for project procurement of goods and civil works ($11.8 M). Most
of these will be for civil works and will be below $100,000 in size
because of the dispersed nature of construction involving 800 sites. Most
of the procurement will be handled by PIW, BARC and BARI who have imple-
mented other IDA assisted projects and are familiar with Bank procurement
procedures. Therefore, there is little risk of mis-procurement and a



-22-
prior review threshold of $100,000 will be used. The threshold will
result in prior review of about 5% of bidding packages covering 20% of the
value. The remaining documents will be kept for inspection by IDA super-
vision missions.
G. Disbursement
4.23      Disbursements under the credit will extend over six years and
will be made as follows:
a. 100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures on
equipment and vehicles.
b. 85% of expenditures on civil works.
c. 100% of monitoring and evaluation consultancy costs.
d. 100% of foreign expenditures on training.
e. 100% of research grants for approved sub-projects.
f. US$500 per annum per extension agent in the project area
above a base figure of 4,500 extension agents in FY83
and 5,700, thereafter, up to a maximum of about 8,060.
g. US$1,500 per annum thana-level extension officer in the
project area above a base figure of 980 up to a maximum
of about 1,640.
Disbursement requests for categories (a) through (d) will be fully docu-
mented. Disbursements for research grants will be on the basis of cer-
tified statements of expenditure for which BARC will retain supporting
documents. Field records will include statements of funds released, and
semi-annual expenditure statements with supporting documents from the
institution executing the sub-project. BARC's audit wing has been
strengthened for this purpose under a previous IDA supported project,
Agricultural Research Project (ARP) (Cr. 828). GOB gave assurances that
disbursement requests for categories (f) and (g) will be submitted
quarterly and will be accompanied by a statement of staff strength for
Extension Agent and Additional Extension Officer positions in each of the
15 project districts certified by the Secretary or an Additional Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. The relevant supporting
documentation would be retained by the implementing agency at one central
location and made available for inspection by IDA staff on request.
Expenditures reimbursed under SOEs would be audited annually by independ-
ent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements will extend
over six years. This compares with a eight year disbursement period for a
typical agriculture project in the S. Asia region and about five years for



-23-
the EAR I Project.  The time period is reasonable considering that the
proposed project is modelled after EAR I Project; the main procurement
agency will be the same as in EAR I Project (para 5.08); and the project
design is such that land acquisition--one of the main delay causing fac-
tors--is minimized.
H. Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
4.24      Project Proformas (PP) are being prepared by project implement-
ing agencies. Approval by GOB of the PP is proposed as a condition of
credit effectiveness. PIW, BARC, BRRI, and BARI are implementing other
IDA assisted projects and are familiar with IDA audit and accounting
requirements. GOB gave assurances that PIW, BARC, BRRI, and BARI will
maintain separate project accounts; that the unaudited project accounts
will be submitted to IDA and to an independent auditor within three months
of the end of each fiscal year; and that the audited statements along with
the audit opinion of the independent auditor will be submitted to the IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.25      The Department of Extension will be a new organization formed by
the merger of five extension agencies. It is possible that initially, the
merger will create some disruption in accounting functions. Provision has
been made for technical assistance to reduce such problems (para 4.15).
GOB gave assurances that unaudited DAE accounts will be submitted to IDA
within six months of each fiscal year end and the audited accounts within
nine months of the end of the fiscal year.
4.26      GOB funds release and payment procedures are lengthy, especially
for Ministries such as MAF. None of the agencies in MAE have the
authority to pay bills without a preaudit of the payment. Consequent
delays in payments have caused hardship to the local civil works contrac-
tors who have on many occasions been forced to slow down construction
because of slow payments from GOB. In the past, use of a revolving fund
has provided useful relief from such problems for agencies which know how
to handle such a fund. PIW--the procurement and construction wing of MAF
(para 5.08)--has made good use of such funds. GOB recognizes that the
existing procedures are unsatisfactory and has given assurances that PIW
will be provided with a revolving fund of at least Taka 2 million, which
represents the peak monthly funds requirement for civil works. PIW will
make advance payments from the revolving fund and then seek reimbursement
from the Treasury. The fund will be reimbursed as and when needed by
Treasury quite independently of the receipt of IDA disbursements. This is
a temporary arrangement until GOB payment procedures are improved. The
adequacy of the revolving fund arrangements will be reviewed during the
fourth calendar quarter of 1983 in order to determine the need for con-
tinuing the Revolving Fund, and if the Revolving Fund is to be maintained,
the appropriate funding level.



-24-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COORDINATION
5.01      The proposed project will be implemented by the following five
agencies within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF):
a. Department of Extension (DAE)
b. Project Implementation Wing (PIW)
c. Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council (BARC)
d. Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute (BARI)
e. Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
Department of Extension
5.02      Role and Genesis:  DAE will be the main project implementation
agency and will be responsible for handling all extension work under the
project (80% of project costs). GOB has decided through a Presidential
Order that DAE be formed by a merger of the extension functions of the
following five agencies of MAF:
a. Directorate of Agriculture - Extension and Management (DEM)
b. Directorate of Agriculture - Jute Production (DAJ)
c. Plant Protection Directorate (PPD)
d. Horticulture Development Board (HDB)
e. Tobacco Development Board (TDB)
The merger of DEM, PPD, HDB, and TDB poses little problem and is presently
scheduled to completed by June 30, 1982. GOB gave assurances that the
merger will be implemented by that date. DAJ merger will take slightly
longer because DAJ currently has many non-extension oriented functions
such as seed supply, short term production credit disbursement and collec-
tion, operation of a pilot jute marketing project, and organizing the Jute
Farmers Association with almost one million members. These activities; are
receiving IDA support through the Jute Project (Cr. 765-BD, closing date
6/30/83), and GOB has not yet made alternative arrangements for continuing
the non-extension functions. It is expected that about half of the staff
will be retained to carry out these functions. GOB gave assurances that
DAJ merger will be completed by June 30, 1983 according to the following
phasing:



-25-
a. DAJ staff at the level of Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA)
and above will be merged with DAE by June 30, 1982.
b. GOB will complete merger of DAJ field staff in a manner
acceptable to the Association by June 30, 1983.
GOB does not want the Cotton Development Board (CDB) of MAF be merged into
DAE as yet because CDB, with a staff strength of about 300, is small and
engaged primarily in input supply and procurement for the cotton crop in
selected areas. However, GOB gave an assurance that by December 31, 1985,
the status and role of CDB will be reviewed in consultation with IDA, with
a view to merging CDB into DAE.
5.03      Staffing:  DAE will be staffed mainly with the existing staff
of the five agencies. Incremental staff requirements are low (para 4.04)
and are mainly for EA and ADEO levels. EA positions will be filled by
diplomates from ATI. About 50% of the incremental needs will be filled in
the first year of the project (FY83), and about 25% each in the fourth and
fifth years (FY86, 87). The lag is due to the expected conversion of ATI
diploma program from a two to a three year program. Since the third year
students will be as full time apprentices in DAE, the FY86 and FY87
entrants, in practice, will become available a year earlier.
5.04      Management:  DAE will be headed by the newly created post of
Director-General. The post is vacant. Filling the position of DG with an
officer whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to IDA is
a condition of credit effectiveness.
Other Implementing Agencies
5.05      Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute (BARI):  BARI will be
responsible for the following actions (14% of project cost):
a.  Project research station development work.
b.  Adaptive research work with emphasis on wheat, horticulture and
cropping systems.
c.  Training of Extension staff.
BARI will handle the station development work and project procurement
through its Training, Projects and Communications Division headed by an
Associate Director. The station civil works construction will be executed
through PIW. The adaptive research work will be handled by the newly
created Farming Systems Research Division (FSRD). The Division will be
formed by the merger of the On-Farm Trials Division and the staff of
Regional Research Stations and Sub-stations. The unified line of command
will improve co-ordination of BARI's regional research work. FSRD will be



-26-
headed by an Associate Director. GOB gave assurances that the Associate
Director, FSR will be designated by September 30, 1982 and appointed by
December 31, 1982. AD (FSR) will be assisted by Regional Directors sta-
tioned at the five regional station who will supervise collaborative
research programs, research sub-stations, farming systems sites, componeint
research and training of extension workers. A PSO will assist the
regional director in supervising farming system sites, component research
and training. Off-farm research in the regions is being carried out at
200 sites.  However, with the new thrust on farming systems research it is
unlikely that it will be possible to maintain all the present 200 sites.
BARI will therefore commission an analysis of site characteristics so that
a series of sites can be selected which cover the different
agro-ecological zones of Bangladesh and which can be efficiently managed
with the staff available. GOB gave assurances that this analysis will be
completed and its results communicated to IDA before December 31, 1982 and
that by December 31 of each year thereafter it will furnish to IDA for its
comments, the annual off-farm research program for the following fiscal
year.
5.06      Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI):  BRRI will be respon-
sible for the following actions under the project (3% of project cost):
a.  Training of Extension Officers and Subject Matter Specialists.
b.  Research on problems of irrigated rice cultivation at three
sites in farmers fields.
c.  Regular liaison with District level subject matter specialists
for the formulation of fortnightly impact points and to receive
feedback on farmers' problems for further research (para 5.09).
BRRI organization is already well developed and will be able to handle
these tasks with its existing structure. The Associate Director for
training will handle the training and liaison activities; while the
research in farmer's field will be managed by the farming systems group.
5.07      Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council (BARC):  BARC will be
responsible for channeling research grant funds and for appraisal,
monitoring and evaluation of sub projects (3% of project costs,para 4.14).
The procedures and criteria for these have been established under ARP (CR.
828). BARC will carry out appraisal and evaluation through its committee
system, which consists of five Technical Committees for Soil and Irriga-
tion; Crops and Forestry; Agricultural Engineering; Agricultural Economics
and Social Sciences; and Livestock and Fisheries. These Technical Commit-
tees, consisting of scientists from various research institutes with the
BARC member director as secretary, will evaluate subproject proposals and
will send their recommendations to the Executive Committee. The Executive
Committee, which includes Directors of all Agricultural Research



-27-
Institutes, will act on the recommendation in a joint session with BARC's
Finance Committee. While the procedure may appear cumbersome with too
many committees involved, in practice the system has worked reasonably
well. For the limited purposes of the proposed project, there is no need
for a change in the existing system.
5.08      Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of MAF:  PIW role will be that
of a service agency. It will be responsible for all project procurement
and civil works construction needed for extension staff and for research
station civil works. PIW has done similar work for two other IDA assisted
projects and is familiar with IDA procurement and disbursement guidelines.
PIW will continue with its current structure headed by a Joint Secretary
of MAF, with some minor adjustments in staffing. Posts of a Director and
Deputy Director will be deleted and instead of that, six lower level
accounting positions will be created in their place, so that PIW will be
able to handle the increased number of disbursement applications.
Research-Extension Linkages
5.09      For effective research and extension work there will be a
regular two way flow of information. The research staff will inform
extension about the latest proven area specific research results. The
extension staff will feedback farmers' reaction to those recommendations
as well as other agricultural problems for further research. The exchange
of information will occur through District Technical Committees. These
will meet monthly and will consist of district level subject matter
specialists and research scientists. Since BRRI station network is not
very well developed, BRRI will organize roving teams of research scien-
tists from its Central Research Station. They will visit each District at
least once a month to exchange information with extension staff and
farmers.
Extension Linkages with Farmer Groups and Cooperatives
5.10      Agricultural extension work of DAE, and the input and credit
supply functions of KSS/TCCA cooperatives and JFA farmer groups, are
complementary activities. The thana level extension officers will assist
with the agricultural training component of TCCA farmer training program.
The extension agents will also ensure that local KSS and JFA are informed
about his visit schedule and are invited to his afternoon group meetings
with farmers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11      Each implementing agency will monitor its own activity as a part
of its management information system. The information gathered through
this system will be summarized by each implementing agency on a quarterly
basis and furnished to MAF and IDA. The evaluation work will be carried



-28-
out by MAF using sample survey techniques with emphasis on scientific
sample design, accurate data collection and thorough analysis. The quan-
tity of data collected will be minimized. It is expected that two to
three surveys will be conducted, each with a sample size not exceeding
1,000 respondents.
Implementation Schedule
5.12      The Project will be implemented over a five year period ending
on,June 30, 1987 (Annex 1, Chart 4). Designs for most of the civil works
(85%) are completed and have already been tested out in previous projects.
All civil works construction sites are already owned by GOB, and site
acquisition delays are not anticipated. Detailed site investigations and
tender documents preparation for FY 1982/83 construction will be completed
by April 1982.
VI. YIELD, PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      Technical Impact:  The most significant changes at the farm
level as a result of project extension work will be initially due to more
efficient use of fertilizers, substitution of local varieties of seed with
improved high yielding varieties; and more efficient cultural operations
involving improved land preparation, timing of planting, seedbed prepara-
tion, spacing and depth of planting, line sowing and transplanting, weed-
ing, timing of irrigation, choice and application of pesticides, and
improved methods of threshing and drying seed, and seed selection and
storage.
6.02      Fertilizer Usage:  Current fertilizer usage is low.  As the
farmer's financial position improves and his confidence in his EA grows,
higher fertilizer usage can be expected, together with proper timing of
application and placement and increased phosphate (TSP) usage for more
balanced and efficient fertilizer usage (Table 6.1).



-29-
Table 6.1 Fertilizer Usage - Current and Projected at Full Development
(Seers/Acre)
Urea              TSP              MP
FWO      FW      FWO     FW       FWO     FW
Improved Varieties
Aus                     19       36        4     20         2     10
T. Aman                 26       34      10      25         7     12
Boro                    30       50      12      28         5     14
Wheat-Rainfed           13       25       10     25         4      6
Wheat-Irrigated         30       43       20     36         6     10
6.03      Yield Increase:  The project will encourage farmers to shift
from local varieties to improved varieties in areas with better water
control. However, such shifts will be made possible due mainly to invest-
ments in irrigation and seed production. Therefore, yield increases due
to HYV adoption are not attributed to the project. Similarly, no yield
increases are claimed for areas with local varieties, as farmers are
already skilled in growing these varieties and it is unlikely that exten-
sion will have a significant impact on yields. The main project contribu-
tion will arise from the yield increases due to increasing efficiency of
cultivation of the modern improved varieties, at which most farmers are
not yet fully skilled. With the increase in fertilizer use and better
crop management, yields of improved varieties are expected to increase
as in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2 Crop Yields (tons/ha)
FWO          FW (at full development)
Local Varieties
Aus                                 0.8                   0.8
B. Aman                             1.0                    1.0
T. Aman                             1.3                    1.3
Improved Varieties
Aus                                 2.0                    2.9
T. Aman                             2.1                   2.9
Boro                                2.5                   3.5
Wheat-Rainfed                       0.8                    1.3
Wheat-Irrigated                     2.0                    2.8



-30-
6.04       Crop Budgets:  Detailed crop budgets are in Annex 3 and are
summarized in Table 6.3. These show that the incremental benefit to cost
ratio will range from 2.2 for irrigated wheat to 3.5 for T. Aman under
the improved varieties, giving farmers sufficient incentives to follow
extension recommendations.
Table 6.3 Crop Budgets
(Tk'000 per acre)
Gross       Production         Net        Incremental
Revenue         Cost         Revenue      Benefit/Cost
FWO    FW    FWO      FW     FWO    FW
Improved Varieties
Aus                  2.4    3.3   1.2      1.5    1.2    1.8          3.0
T. Aman              2.7    3.7   1.4      1.7    1.3    2.0          3.5
Boro                 2.9    4.1   2.4      2.8    0.5    1.3          2.7
Wheat-Rainfed        1.0    1.5   0.9      1.1    0.1    0.4          2.6
Wheat-Irrigated      2.4    3.2   1.7      2.0    0.7    1.2          2.2
6.05      Adoption Rate:  While the project extension agents will try to
influence all farmers in the project area to follow their recommendations,
it is unlikely that all of them will do so, because of various reasons
including the learning curve for extension staff who need some time to
learn how to apply the T&V system properly, as well as farmers' skep-
ticism. Experience with the first project shows that in the initial year
only about 3 contact farmers per sub-block (75-150 farm families) can be
expected to follow extension advice, with the number increasing to about
seven by the end of the second year. A similar pattern (Table 6.4) has
been assumed for the proposed project, even though the actual experience
could be higher due to lessons learned from the first project. The con-
tact farmers will of course transmit the extension advice to other
farmers. It is estimated that an average of about 3.5 farmers will learn
from each contact farmer.



-31-
Table 6.4 Project Area Adoption Rate
Years
1      2      3      4       5    10
Farm families adopting
extension advice (M equivalent)        .07    .41    .88   1.32   1.67   2.19
Total Farm Families (M)                6.67   6.83   6.99   7.16   7.32   7.50
Adoption rate-with project (%)         1.0    5.9   12.6   18.5   22.9   29.9
-without project (%)    0.5    2.7    4.6    5.5    6.1    6.4
-incremental (%)         0.5    3.2    8.0   13.0   16.8   23.5
6.06       Production and Financial Benefits:  Due to improvements in
irrigation and seed production, the project area farmers will adopt
improved varieties, thereby increasing the project area foodgrain produc-
tion from 10 M tons in year 1979/80 to 12.3 M tons in year 1987/88. Due
to adoption of improved practices under the project, production will
increase to 12.74 M tons in year 1987/88. The incremental production due
to the project, about 0.44 M tons, will produce Tk 700 M net farm revenue
for project area farmers.
Table 6.5 Production and Financial Benefits
1991/92
With       Without      Incremental
Project      Project   Amount  Percent
Foodgrain Production (M tons)       12.74         12.3        .44      3.6
Gross Revenue (Tk B)                37.3         36.1        1.2       3.4
Production Cost (Tk B)              26.5         26.0        0.5       1.9
Net Farm Revenue (Tk B)             10.8          10.1       0.7       6.9
6.07       Fiscal Impact:  The project will result in an annual increase
in extension and research costs of about Tk 60 M which is 0.5% of the
annual national budget, or only Tk 8 per project area farm family. This
can be accommodated within Government's five year plan development expen-
ditures. Though the project will result in greater fertilizer utiliza-
tion, GOB has indicated that fertilizer subsidy will be reduced so that
there will be no adverse fiscal impact. Farmers' cost increase due to
reduced fertilizer subsidy will be more than offset by increase in
benefits from balanced fertilizer usage, thereby maintaining incentives
for balanced fertilizer usage.



-32-
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Project Justification
7.01      The project will support the Bangladesh Medium Term Foodgrain
Production Plan (MTFPP) objective of achieving self-sufficiency in
foodgrain by increasing production of rice and wheat from about 15 M tons
in FY81 to about 18-20 M tons by FY85. The extension and research com-
ponent of the Second Five Year Plan (of which the MTFPP is the core) is
quite modest, accounting for only about 3% of the estimated total cost of
Tk 86 billion for irrigation, flood control and other agricultural
infrastructure; yet, this component may be regarded as the catalyst which
will increase demand for other investments and ensure that the investments
are used efficiently for maximum benefit.
7.02      In line with MTFPP strategy, the project, through its emphasis
on adaptive research, will refine recommendations for optimizing farmers'
returns and minimize his risks under low cash input and rainfed condi-
tions. It will improve cropping systems research on farmers' fields in
irrigated areas which will help alleviate some of the pest and trace
element deficiency problems that are emerging in the more intensively
cultivated irrigated areas. The project will intensify extension effort
and will produce about 4% increase in project area rice and wheat produc-
tion by FY86/87, over and above the 23% production increase expected due
to other investments in agriculture.
Economic Analysis
7.03      The economic analysis is made in border takas.  Prices of inter-
nationally traded commodities have been based on projections of world
prices in constant 1981 values. International prices are converted to
local currency at an exchange rate of US$1=Tkl8. All prices are net of
taxes and subsidies. The conversion factor for rice is 1.37 and for
wheat, 1.58. Conversion factors for fertilizers are 1.61 for urea, 3.14
for TSP and 2.8 for MP, reflecting fertilizer subsidies. For pesticides,
which are no longer subsidized, a CF of 1.0 has been used. The price of
water is calculated at its border price including both capital and O&M
costs. Non-traded items have been adusted by a standard conversion factor
of 0.78. In addition, the financial cost of labor has been adjusted by a
factor of 0.68 to reflect the ample supply of labor. Since much of the
project investment in vehicles will have to be replaced after ten years,
project benefits are included for ten years only. Allowance is made for
incremental working capital assuming a lag of 6 months between production
costs and benefits.
7.04      The economic rate of return for the project based on the cost
and benefit streams given in Annex 3, is about 44% and its net present
value is Tk 7.5 billion at 12% opportunity cost of capital. This attrac-
tive rate of return is due to the project making better use of existing
investments in extension, research, irrigation and other infrastructure.



-33-
The returns are high inspite of the modest impact on project area
foodgrain production (4%) because of the low level of project cost. The
project costs are low because of the low level of Bangladesh agricultural
staff salaries and allowances, which, for instance, amount to only about
$50 per month per extension agent.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.05      Because of the high returns the project is virtually insensitive
to increases in project cost. Even if the project cost were increased by
830%, or benefits reduced by 87%, an ERR of 12% will be obtained.
Table 7.1 Switching Values at 12%
(Percent Change)
Benefits                            -   87
Incremental Working Capital         + 4250
Project Cost                        +  830
7.06      A sensitivity analysis on the adoption of extension messages by
contact and other farmers shows that:
a.  If the extension message fails to spread beyond contact farmers,
the ERR will still be about 20%.
b.  If the number of contact farmers increases from an average of
ones per sub-block in year 1 to only 4 by year 10, and the number
of farmers influenced by each contact farmer remains about 3.5,
the ERR will be 35%.
c.  If there is a lag of five years in realization of project
benefits, but not in incurring project costs, the ERR will be
25%.
Project Risk
7.07      There are two major sources of project risk; one is institu-
tional and the other financial. The institutional risk stems from the
merger of five extension agencies, which could create implementation
delays and disruption. This risk has been minimized through a phased
merger in which only the main extension oriented agencies of MAF are
merged. A Government Order for the merger has already been issued. Sub-
stantial technical assistance will also be provided to assist GOB with the
merger and reoganization, so that any disruptive effect is minimized. The
second source of risk--the financial risk--stems from GOB budgetary proce-
dures which sometimes delay release of funds and thereby delay project
implementation. The project provides for the creation of a revolving fund



-34-
of Tk 2 million so that the impact of funds release delay will be mini-
mized.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness are:
a. Signing of UNDP project document for technical assistance in
support of the project (para 4.18).
b. Approval of GOB of the Project Proforma (para 4.24).
c. Filling the position of Director General of DAE with an officer
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to
the Association (para 5.04).
d. Opening a revolving fund (para 4.26).
8.02      During negotiations, the following assurances were given by GOB:
a. An extension manual, satisfactory to the Association, will be
issued by June 30, 1982 (para 4.06).
b. WDB extension staff will be merged into DAE by June 30, 1983
and, in the meantime, it will not be increased beyond the level
existing as of the date of the Credit Agreement.
c. Extension staff for foreign training will be selected following
criteria and procedures acceptable to IDA. Details of these
procedures and criteria will be submitted to IDA for comments
prior to September 30, 1982 (para 4.08).
d. Bicycles and motorcycles will be provided to project staff on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.09).
e. Travel allowance amounts and rates will be maintained at ade-
quate levels (para 4.09).
f. Extension agents, not provided with Government offices will be
given an adequate amount for office rental (para 4.10).
g. GOB will promptly carry out an assessment of its agricultural
research stations to determine the optimal number and location
of such stations. The assessment will be completed and the
findings furnished to IDA before December 31, 1982. Except as
IDA may otherwise agree, no new agricultural research stations
will be constructed before the completion of the study other
than those GOB had undertaken to construct in agreements entered



-35-
into with other external financing entities or agents before
January 1, 1982 (para 4.13).
h. Detailed foreign training program for research staff will be
sent to IDA for comments, by September 30, 1982 (para 4.15).
i. Technical assistance consultants will be engaged in consultation
with IDA (para 4.16, 4.21).
j. Disbursement requests for operating cost will be submitted once
every quarter and will be accompanied by a statement of staff
strength certified by the Secretary or an Additional Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. The relevant sup-
porting documentation would be retained by the implementing
agency at one central location and made available for inspection
by IDA staff on request. Expenditures reimbursed under SOEs
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association (para 4.23).
k. PIW, BARC, BARI and BRRI will maintain separate project
accounts. The unaudited project accounts of PIW, BARC, BARI and
BRRI will be submitted to IDA within three months of the end of
each fiscal year. The audited accounts along with the opinion
of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, will be submitted
to IDA within six months of fiscal year end (para 4.24).
1. The unaudited DAE accounts will be submitted to IDA within six
months of each fiscal year end and the audited accounts within
nine months of the fiscal year end (para 4.25).
m. PIW will be provided with a revolving fund of at least Taka 2
million. The adequacy of the revolving fund arrangements will
be reviewed during the fourth calendar quarter of 1983 to deter-
mine the need for continuing the revolving fund, and if the fund
is to be maintained, the appropriate funding level (para 4.26).
n. DEM, PPD, HDB and TDB merger will be completed by June 30, 1982
(para 5.02).
o. DAJ merger will be completed by June 30, 1983 according to the
following phasing (para 5.02).
i. DAJ staff at the level of Assistant Director of Agricul-
ture (ADA) and above will be merged with DAE by June 30,
1982.
ii. GOB will complete merger of DAJ field staff in a manner
acceptable to the Association by June 30, 1983.



-36-
p. The status and role of CDB will be reviewed by December 31,
1985, in consultation with IDA, with a view to merging CDB into
DAE (para 5.02).
q. BARI will appoint the Associate Director by December 31, 1982
(para 5.05).
r. BARI will commission an analysis of its off-farm research work
with a view to reducing the number of existing sites. The
analysis will be completed and its results communicated to IDA
before December 31, 1982 (para 5.05).
s. By December 31 of each year GOB will submit to IDA for its
comments, its annual off-farm research program for the following
fiscal year (para 5.05).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$27 million.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests - Organization Chart
Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests
Minister/D. Minister/Secretary
Administrative and                                                   Directorate                   Cotton                    Bangladesh                   Bangladesh
Administr dProject Implementation  _ of Agriculture    l                                       Agriculture                 Agricultural
Planning Sections                     Wing                   T    Extension and          _     Development                  Development                    Research
Management                     Board                     Corporation                   Council
Additional/Joint Secretary           Joint Secretary                      Director       I            Director                    Chairman                  Vice Chairman
|               ~~~~~~~~I
Directorate     IBangladesh                                                          Bangladesh
of  rireclturae   l      |   Soil Survey               Forest Industries              Agricultural
oft Agridcuture              Department                  Development                    Research
rt   Jute Production    g   _  Departmen t          _    Corporation                    Institute
Director       *         Chief Scientific               Chairman                     Director
I        ~~~Officer                                                                     l
Plant Protection              Agriculture                                               Bangladesh
DirecantoPratetion  _     Information                                              Rice Research
l  Directorate  j             Service                                                 Institute
Director                     CTIO                                                    Director
l            .   ~~~~~~~I 
Horticulture                                                                            Forest
Development      I            Forestry                                                 Research
ll  Board     |      l Departme                                                     Instituteen
Director       I             Chief                                                   Director
IConservator                                                    Drco
Tobacco      l                Seed
Development   |             Certification
l l  Board  _| |     |     Agency
Director                    Director
Extension agencies to be merged
under the project; into an
agricultural extension department.
World Bank-23241



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
Proposed Department of Agricultural Extension - Organization Chart
Department of
Agriculture Extension
Director General
i
Food Crops                               Field Services Directorate                                            Training
Directorate       I                           Central Office                                                 Directorate
Directors (2)                          Director/Regional Directors (4)                                   Additional Diracto
I                           IZuL                                            I
Cash Crops                                   District Offices                                               Personnel and
Directorate                                       (21)                                             I      General Services
Directors (2)                            Assistant Director (ADA)                                        Additional Director
Plant Protection    I                                                                                          Finance and
Directorate      l                                                                                 I         Budgeting
D    Personnel, Planning, Finance      Field Support,         Training and             A
Director        I      Interagency Co-ordination       Visit Scheduling      Techicl Advice            Additional Director
and Reporting               Supervision
Centralized      |                                                             Distri Training     I
Technical/Operational          Deputy ADA (DADA)            Senior Extension      Officer (DTO) and                Support
Units          Iofficers (2 to 4)                                            Subject Matter                  Units
I                                                    __________________________  SpeciaUsts  (6-12) 
I                      ,_     _      _     _      
Thans Officas
15-30 per District)
Thana Extension Office (TEO),
Additional and Assistant TEO (4)
On-Farm Training of     |
Farmers            |
Village Extension Agent                                   I
(20 per thans)       |                               |
Regionalized Operational Units                               !                                3
World Bank-23240



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH IIPROJECT
Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute
Organization Chart
Ministry of
Agrinolt.r. and Fo.rgtry
Mini.t.r/D. Miniter
Scrat;ry
8aog9d1h Agric-lture
Raaaarh Instituta
Board of Govrmon
Dirrctor          |
-F 
Training Projects                                               Rer an h                            l                            Farming o  Patoh
and Communicrrtions                                                                                                           Syn.- Rr  nchml                                        S. rvl
A--,-. M-to,ArXocitr                                                                                        Atois Di                                                Aronio
Arboclat;Dir~~                       ~     ~     ~ ctorrd Iiutvlt                                             i  trlDrco
AgnttdtPiRgion il
|ad  reona] Rneerc  Statio                                                                  Reg hi_o_nale.
7  ScHncr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J,s l |irpur, Hathwaz i,t
I                                                                I L
World  ank- 23259r



BANG LADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Authority                             Activity                        J 0    -            1982/83               1983/84               1984/85               1985/86               1986/87
GOB                    Government order on DEM's reoganization
GOB                    Designation of DG
GOB/MAF                Appoint DG
MAF/PIW, DEM.          Preparation and approval of PP.
GOB/MAF                Travel allowance revision
MAFIDEM                Assign and fill new managerial positions
DEM                    Submit T and V manual for review by IDA
DEM                    Prepare training program and curriculum for
mid-level staff and VEA and submit for IDA review
DEM                    Initiate retraining program for VEA
DEM                    Recruit consultants                                            _O
DEM                    Recruit VEA and other mid-level staff
MAF/DEM                Merge DAJ and DEM 
DEM/BARI/BARRI         Continue training program of VEA and mid-level staff
BARI/BARC/BARRI    Prepare adaptive research program
BAR l/BARC/BRRI        Implement the adaptive research program
MAF (PIW)              Selection of Architectural consultants
MAF (PIW)              Detailed design and site selection
Research (Rahmatpur, Jessore, Jamalpur,
Ishurdi, Hathazari, Bogra, Thakurgaon,
Rangpur, Raishahi)
Extension 30 Thanas, 3 Districts and
750 Seed Stores
World Bank - 23262     d0
-t.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 1 PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Authority                            Activity                             0                 1982/83               1983/84               1984/85               1985/86                1986/87
_ _       _        _       _~_                        -        I~         m          I          1-'Im                             I          I          I          m
PlW/Consultants        Recording of existing situation at project
sites (color coded site plans) and survey of
seed stores (architectural and location)
PIW                    Preparation of architectural brief
PIW                    Preparation of topographical survey
Master plan of all project sites
IDA                    Review by IDA and agreement on
architectural briefs and master plans
PIW                    Soil investigation at proejct sites
PIW                    Preparationi of tender documents anid
IDA review
PIW                    Tendering for building materials
PIW                    Bid opening and evlauation
PIW                    Award recommendations and IDA review
PIW/Contractor         Delivery of building materials
PIW                    Prequalifications of contractors
PIW                    Tendering for buildings and external works
PIW                    Bid opening and evaluation for buildings
and external works
PIW (Contractors)      Construction period for buildings and
external works
World Bank - 23263  "') 4 .



-42-
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Costs and Disbursement
Table 1: Project Cost Summary - Constant Takas
2:  Project Cost SuImary - Current Takas
3:  Project Cost Summary - Breakdown of Foreign Costs and Duties and Taxes
4:  Rahmatpur Research Station - Laboratory Equipment Costs
5:  Rahmatpur Research Station - Farm Equipment and Vehicle Costs
6:  Rahmatpur Research Station - Incremental Operating Costs
7:  Rahmatpur Research Station - Adaptive Research Costs
8:  BARI Headquarters - Joydebpur - Adaptive Research Costs
9:  Regional and Sub-Station - Adaptive Research Costs
10: Research - Special Projects
11: BARI and BRRI Training Programs for Extension Staff
12: Extension - Incremental Salary and Allowances
13: Extension - Incremental Support Costs
14: Extension Service, Transport, Equipment and Furniture -
Investment Requirements
15: Extension Services - Civil Works
16: Rahmatpur Research Station - Civil Works
17: Regional Research Stations Expansion - Civil Works
18: Research Sub-Station - Civil Works
19: Extension - Local Training
20: Extension - Foreign Training
21: Research - Foreign Training
22: Technical Assistance
23: Monitoring and Evaluation
24: Credit Allocation
25: Disbursement Schedule



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousands of Constant Takas)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5                   Total        FE(%)
Extension
Equipment & Vehicles                    8,981       9,196       4,792       5,402       2,220                  30,591         46
Civil Works                            25,106      37,274      47,467      30,238                             140,085          34
Incremental Operating Costs            20,923      38,450      38,355      42,696      49,227                 189,651         10
Training                                5,283       5,349       4,728       3,171       2,702                  21,233          31
Sub-Total                              60,293      90,269      95,342      81,507      54,149                 381,560         23
Research
Rahmatpur RS                            3,415       7,942       6,542       4,783       1,060                  23,742          34
Other RS                                2,301       4,897       6,113       3,744                              17,055          38
Adaptive Research                        9,804      4,934       4,423       4,798       2,063                  26,022          23
Training                                2,793       5,586       5,586       5,320                              19,285          96
Sub-Total                              18,313      23,358      22,664      18,645       3,123                  86,104         46
Technical Assistance                   11,544      13,608       9,984       8,256                              43,392          95
Monitoring & Evaluation                  1,481         341      1,421         281       1,624                   5,148           6
Total Base Cost                        91,631    127,576    129,411    108,689         58,896                 516,204          32
Physical Contingency                    6,076       8,747       9,398       7,320       2,945                  34,486          33
Price Contingency                      10,812      31,135      50,850      56,913      36,183                 185,892          29
Total Cost                            108,519    167,458    189,659    172,922         98,024                 736,582          32
October 8, 1981                                                                                                                     I



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousands of Current Takas)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5                   Total       FE(%)
Extension
Equipment & Vehicles                     10,232      11,315       6,339       7,681       3,393                  38,960        46
Civil Works                              31,760      52,809      75,322      53,740                             213,631        34
Incremental Operating Costs              24,166      48,850      53,604      65,637      83,244                 275,501        10
Training                                   6,059      6,694       6,414       4,561       4,130                  27,858         32
Sub-Total                                72,217    119,668    141,679    131,619         90,767                 555,950        23
Research
Rahmatpur RS                              4,201      10,745       9,957       8,124       1,621                  34,648         34
Other RS                                  2,912       6,938       9,701       6,654                              26,205         38
Adaptive Research                        11,169       6,071       5,850       6,823       3,154                  33,067         23
Training                                  3,182       6,873       7,388       7,564                              25,007        96
Sub-Total                                21,464      30,627      32,896      29,165       4,775                 118,927        45
Technical Assistance                     13,151      16,743      13,205      11,739                              54,838         95
Monitoring & Evaluation                    1,687         420      1,879         399       2,482                   6,867          6
Total Cost                              108,519    167,458    189,659    172,922         98,024                 736,582        32
October 9, 1981
cD 



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(Thousands of Takas)
Extension                                 Local         Foreign        Total         Taxes
Equipment & Vehicles                       16,519       14,072        30,591         8,443
Civil Works                                92,456       47,629       140,085        14,289
Incremental Operating Costs              171,028        18,623       189,651        13,036
Training                                   14,635        6,598        21,233         1,572
Sub-Total                                294,639        86,921       381,560        37,340
Research
-n
Rahmatpur RS                               15,606         8,136       23,742         3,252
Other RS                                   10,503        6,552        17,055         1,965
Adaptive Research                          19,916         6,106       26,022         5,387
Training                                      771       18,514        19,285             -
Sub-Total                                 46,796        39,308        86,104        10,605
Technical Assistance                        2,170       41,222        43,392             -
Monitoring & Evaluation                     4,839           309         5,148          216
Total Base Cost                           348,444      167,760       516,204        48,161
Physical Contingency                       23,103       11,383        34,486         3,307
Price Contingency                         132,403       53,489       185,892        16,736
Total Cost                                503,950      232,632       736,582        68,203
October 8, 1981                              



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II
RAHMATPUR RESEARCH STATION
Laboratory Equipment Costs
Unit       Year I           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5               Total            X
Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost           Unit      Cost      F.E.
Item                (000 Tk)         (Tk 000)        (Tk 000)         (000 Tk)         (000 Tk)          (000 Tk)            (000 Tk)
Measuring Tape                 2.80              -        3      8.40             -                -                -          3         8.40
Demineralization Unit          7.10              -        2     14.20             -                -                -          2        14.20
Distilled Water Plant          8.30              -        1      8.30             -                -                -          1         8.30
Balance -  2 kg               52.10              -        1     52.10             -                -                -          1       52.10
Balance - 10 kg               78.00              -        1     78.00             -                -                -          1       78.00
Sliding Weight Balance         3.60              -        3     10.80             -                -                -          3       10.80
Spring Balance                 1.20              -        2      2.40             -                -                -          2         2.40
Core Soil Sampler              1.50              -        1      1.50             -                -                -          1         1.50
Sample Tins                    0.04              -     600      24.00             -                -                -        600       24.00
Soil augers                    0.80              -        2      1.60             -                -                -          2         1.60
Drying Oven                   33.00              -        1     33.00             -                -                -          1       33.00
Incubator (seed)              21.90              -        1     21.90             -                -                -          1       21.90
Incubator (Plant Path)        38.50              -        1     38.50             -                -                -          1       38.50
Sterilizing Oven             103.50              -        1    103.90             -                -                -          1      103.90
Gas supply                     4.70              -        1      4.70             -                -                -          1         4.70
Desk Calculator                7.50              -        1      7.50             -                -                -          1         7.50
Hand Calculator                2.50      2      7.50              -               -                -                           3         7.50
Refrigerator                  40.00              -        2     80.00             -                -                -          2       80.00
Microscope (dissecting)       14.30              -        2     28.60             -                -                -          2        28.60
Microscope (biruc)            29.60              -        2     59.20             -                -                -          2        59.20
ph Meter                      20.30              -        1     20.30             -                -                -          1        20.30
Camera                        40.00      1     40.00                               -                                -          1        40.00
Projector                     10.00      1     10.00              -               -                -                -          1        10.00
Meterological Equipment       20.00            20.00              -               -                -                -          -        20.00
Sub-total -                         77.50           598.90             -                -                 -                 676.40      58.8      a,
Typewriter (Bengali)          20.00      1     20.00              -               _                _                -          1        20.00
Typewriter (English)          20.00      1     20.00              -               -                -                -          1        20.00
Cyclostyle Machine            10.00      1     10.00              -               -                -                -          1        10.00
Filing Cabinets                5.60      1     33.60              -               -                -                -          6        33.60
Sub-total -                        83.60              -                                                  -                  83.60      33.9
Glassware & Small Items                        45.10           167.60             -                -                -                  212.70     80.0
Total Base Cost                               206.00           767.00             -                -                -                  973.00     61.3
Physical Contingencies                         10.00            38.00             -                -                -                   48.00
Price Contingencies                            18.00           138.00             -                -                -                  156.00
Total Cost                                    234.00           943.00             -                -                -                1,177.00     61.3
September 4, 1981
41



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II
RAHKATPUR RESEARCH STATION
Farm Equipment and Vehicle Coasts
Unit        Year I           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5                Total             X
Item                    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost                Unit      Cost       F.E.
(000 Tk)         (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)              (Tk 000)
Far- Equipment
Tractor 65 hp               310.0              -       1       310.0              -                -                 -           1       310.0
Tractor 40 hp               247.3              -       1       247.3              -                -                 -           1       247.3
Disc Harrow                  23.0              -       1        23.0              -                -                 -           1        23.0
Plow (one-way)               49.5              -       1        49.5              -                -                 -           1        49.5
Tiller                       15.0              -       1        15.0              -                -                 -           1        15.0
Thresher (a11 crop)         133.5              -       1       133.5              -                -                 -           1       133.5
Pover Tiller                 35.0    1       35.0                 -               -                -                 -           1        35.0
Trailer (2-wheel)            70.0              -       1        70.0              -                -                 -           1        70.0
Border Harrow                13.0              -       1        13.0              -                -                 -           1        13.0
Tool Carrier                 42.5              -       1        42.5              -                -                 -           1        42.5
Land Leveller                58.5              -       1        58.5              -                -                 -           1        58.5
Seed Cleaner                 16.2              -                  -      1      16.2               -                -            1        16.2
Hand Seeder                   8.5              -                  -      2      17.0               -                 -           2        17.0
Corn Sheller                  2.0              -                  -      2       4.0               -                 -           2         4.0
Seed Dryer                  102.0              -                  -      1     102.0               -                 -           1       102.0
Seed Trays and Covers          -               -                  -             10.0               -                 -           -        10.0
Seed Bins                    20.0              -                  -      2      40.0               -                 -           2        40.0
Bullock Equipment            50.0            50.0                 -               -                -        -                    -        50.0
Power Sprayer                 5.0    i         5.0                -               -                -                 -           I         5.0
Hand Sprayer                  2.5   10       25.0                .-               -                -                 -          10        25.0
Sub-total -                          115.0             962.3            189.2              -                 -                 1,266.5      59.3
Irrigation Equipment
Turbine Pomp                 180.0               -                 -            180.0               -                 -           1       180.0
Centrifugal Pump              30.0               -                 -             60.0               -                 -           2        60.0
Sub-total -                              -                 -             240.0                                -                   2-0.       95.3
Tools
Hand Drill                     3.5               -      1         3.5                                                             1         3.5
Bench Grinder                  4.0              -       1         4.0              -                -                 _           1         4.0,
Arc Welder                     9.5               -      1         9.5              _-                                             1         9.5
Air Compressor                22.0              -                  -      1      22.0               -                 -           1        22.0
Battery Charger                4.3              -       1         4.3              -                -                             1         4.3
Hand Tools                      -               -                60.0              -                -                 -           -        60.0
Special Tools                   -               -                  -             34.0               -                 -           -        34.0
Carpentry Tools                 -               -                10.0               -               -                 -           -        10.0
Sub-total -                             -               91.3             56.0              -                 -                   147.3      41.9
Spares   (122)                     -              13.8             148.9             58.2              -                 -           -       220.9      50.0
Vehicles
Pick-up                      225.0    1      225.0                 -               -                -                 -           1       225.0
M4otorcycles                  17.2    2       34.4                 -               _                _                 _           2        34.4
Sub-total -                          259.4                -                -                                                     259.4      48.3
Totrl Base Cost                                  388.0           1,203.0            543.0              -                 -                 2,134.0      59.8
Physical Contingencies                            19.0              60.0             27.0                                                    106.0
Price Contingencies                               35.0             217.0            148.0              -                 -                   400.0
Total Cost                                       442.0           1,480.0            718.00             -                 -                 2,640.0      59.8
Septeber 4, 19S1



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 11
RAHFLATPUR RESEARCH STATION
Incremental OperatiLng Costs
Unit           Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5              Total                /
Item                    Cost        Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    lJnit    Cost    Unit                 Cost      Unit       Cost        FE.
(Tk 000)          (Tk 000)            (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)            (Tk 000)             (Tk 000)
Staff Salaries   I/
SSO                             29.()                 -        2       58.0       4      116.(       4     116.0        4      116.(         4       406.0)
SO                              18.3        2       36.6       4      73.2        4      73.2        4      73.2        4       73.2         4       329.4
Field Assistant                 12.2        2       24.4       4      48.8        4      48.8        4      48.8        4       48.8         4       219.6
Field Man                       9.8          1      19.6       4      39.2        4      39.2        4      39.2        4       39.2         4       176.4
Stenotypist                      9.3         1       9.8        1       9.8       2       19.6       2       19.6        2      19.6         2         78.4
Accountant                       9.8         1       9.8       1        9.8        1       9.8       1        9.8        1       9.8         1         49.1)
Mechanic                         8.3                  -         1       8.3        1       8.3        1       8.3        1       8.3         1         33.2
Driver                           7.5         1       7.5       3       22.5       3      22.5        3      22.5         3      22.5         3         97.5
Office Assistant                 7.5         1       7.5       2       15.0       2       15.1)      2       15.1)       2      15.0         2         67.5
Mechanic's Mate                  5.8                  -         1       5.8        1       5.8        1       5.8        1       5.8         1         23.2
Lab Assistant                    5.5                  -         1       5.5       2       [1.0       2       11.0       2       11.0         2         38.5
Peon                             5.1         1       5.1       3       15.3       3       15.3       3       15.3        3      15.3         3         66.3
Sub-total -                                120.3             311.2              384.5              384.5                                   1,585.0       0.0
OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicles  2/                                        1()7.()           107.0              1117.0             107.0              11)7.0                 535.0
Office Expenses  3/                                  43.2             129.6              172.8              172.8              172.8                 691.2
Costs of Cultivation  4/                             36.0            108.0              216.0              216.0               216.0                 792.0
Costs of Field
Experimoents  4/                               311.1)           90.0               180.(1            180.1               180.0                 66(0.0
Preparation of Station
Plan                                           15.()               -                  -                  -                  -                    15.0
Suh-total -                                231.2             434.6              675.8              675.8              675.8                2,693.2      20.0
Total Base Cost                                        352.0             746.0            1,060.0            1,060.0            1,0)60.()              4,278.0      12.6
Physical Contingencies                                  18.()             37.0)              53.0               53.0                53.(1                214.11
Price Contingencies                                     31.0             135.0              289.0              394.0              507.0                1,356.0
Total Cost                                             4(1.0             918.0            1,402.1)           1,507.0            1,620.0                5,848.1)    12.6
I/  Incluaes 3(0% housing allowance and Tk 60/mnonth medical  allowance.
2/  Estimated costs per nile:  Pick-uip, Tk 5.0; motorcycles Tk 2.
3/  Based orn costs at Jessore Regionlp   Reseateh Stationi (Tk 21,6001/year/scietiist).
4/  Based oln costs at Jessore Regional Rese5lrch StatLio           Cellneral cu,ltitvatioi costs Tk 3,600/acre/year,
ext ra costs for experilseats Tk 3,00)0/acre/year.
September 4, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
RAHMATPUR RESEARCH STATION
Adaptive Research Costs
Unit         Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Total
Item                  Price    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit               Cost         F.E.
(Tk 000)          (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)          (Tk 000          (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)           (Tk 000)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Vehicles
Pick-up             225.0        1   225.0               -                 -                 -                 -         1       225.0
3 Wheeler            30.0                -        I    30.0               -                  -                 -         1        30.0
Motorcycles          17.2                -        3    51.6                -                 -                 -         3        51.6
Bicycles              1.8                -       6    10.8                 -                 -                 -         6        10.8
Sub-total                        225.0             92.4               -                  -                 -                317.4       51.0
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
SSO                   29.0                -        1    29.0        1    29.0           1   29.0          1   29.0        1       116.0
Driver                 7.5                -        1     7.5        1      7.5          1    7.5          1    7.5        1        30.0
Sub-total                            -              36.5             36.5               36.5              36.5                146.0         -
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Cropping Systems
Research 1/                            -            169.0             74.3               73.5              73.5                390.3       33.0
Total Base Cost                                 225.0            298.0            111.0              110.0             110.0               854.0       34.0
Physical Contingencies                            11.0            15.0              6.0                6.0               6.0                44.0
Price Contingencies                              20.0             54.0             30.0               41.0              53.0                198.0
Total Cost                                      256.0            367.0            147.0              157.0             169.0             1,096.00      34.0
1/ Funds provided thirough BARC research granit scheme; includes vehicle operating costs.
S r
September 14, 1981                                                                                                                                       D>



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
BARI HEADQUARTERS - JOYDEBPUR
Adaptive Research Costs
Unit         Year I            Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5              Total             %
Item                   Price    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost               Unit      Cost       F.E.
(000 tk)   -       (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)            (Tk 000)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Car                  295.0       1      295.0               -                 -                 -                 -       1         295.0
Pick-up              225.0       6    1,350.0               -                 -                 -                 -       6       1,350.0
3-Wheeler             30.0       1        30.0              -                 -                 -                 -       1          30.0
Motorcycle            17.2       4        68.8              -                 -                 -                 -       4          68.8
Bicycle                1.8       6        10.8              -                 -                 -                 -       6          10.8
Sub-total                          1,754.6               -                 -                -                  -               1,754.6    43.4
IT.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Salaries
Asso. Director        45.2       1        45.2      1     45.2        1     45.2       1      45.2       1      45.2      1         226.0
PSO (Training)        37.4       1        37.4      1     37.4       1      37.4       1      37.4       1      37.4      1         187.0
SSO (         )       29.0       1        29.0      1     29.0       1      29.0       1      29.0       1      29.0      1         145.0
SO(           )       18.3       1        18.3      1     18.3       1      18.3       1      18.3       1      18.3      1          91.5
Draftsman              8.3       1         8.3      1      8.3        1      8.3       1       8.3       1       8.3      1          41.5
Cyclostyle
Operator           7.5       1         7.5      1       7.5       1       7.5       1       7.5       1       7.5      1          37.5
Driver                 7.5       7        52.5      7     52.5       7      52.5       7      52.5       7      52.5      7         262.5
Sub-total                           198.2            198.2             198.2            198.2             198.2                 991.0         0.0
JII. OTHER OPERATINC COSTS
Vehicles  1/                            482.0            482.0             482.0             482.0             482.0              2,410.0         50.0
Croppinig Systems
Research  2/                         169.0             74.5              73.5             73.5               73.5                464.0        30.0
Sub-total                           651.0            556.5            555.5             555.5             555.5              2,874.0
Total Base Cost                                  2,604.0            755.0             754.0             754.0             754.0              5,621.0         37.4
Physical Contingencies                              130.0            38.0              38.0              38.0              38.0                282.0
Price Contingencies                                232.0            136.0             206.0             280.0             361.0              1,215.0
Total Cost                                       2,966.0            929.0             998.0           1,072.0           1,153.0              7,118.0        37.4
!/  Operating costs for sedan, 5 pick-ups and 2 motorcycles.  Other costs included in cropping system research program.
21  Funds provided through BARC research grant scheme.
September 4, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Regional Research Stations
(Jessore, Jamalpur, Hathazari, Ishurdi)
and Sub-stations
(Bogra, Rangpur, Thakurgaon and Rajshahi)
Adaptive Research Costs
Unit        Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4            Year 5            Total
Item                  Price    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit    Cost    Unit             Cost
(Tk 000)           Tk 000)         (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)          (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)           (Tk 000)    FE.
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Seed Processing
Equipment 1/
Dryer               102.0       -         -       2     204.0      -         -                                         2       204.0
Trays and Covers    10.0        -         -       2      20.0      -         -      -         -      -         -       2        20.0
Steel Bins           40.0      -          -       4      80.0      -         -      -         -      -        -        4        80.0
Sub-total                            -             304.0               -                 -               -                304.0      65.9
Vehicles
Pick-up             225.0       4      900.0      1     225.0      -         -      -         -      -         -       5    1,125.0
3-Wheeler            30.0       5      150.0      1      30.0      -         -      -         -      -        -        6       180.0
Motorcycle           17.2      19      326.8      3      51.6      -         -      -         -      -         -      22       378.4
Bicycle               1.8      20       54.0      6       10.6     -         -      -         -      -        -       36        64.6
Sub-total                       1,430.8            317.2               -                 -               -              1,748.0     51.8      @
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Salaries
SSO                  29.0       3       87.0      4     116.0      4      116.0     4      116.0    4       116.0      4       551.0
SO                   18.3       2       36.6      4      73.2      4       73.2     4       73.2    4       73.2       4      .329.4
Accountant            9.8       3       29.4      4       39.2     4       39.2      4      39.2    4        39.2      4       186.2
Driver                7.5       4       30.0      5      37.5      5       37.5      5      37.5    5       37.5       5       180.0
Typist                7.5       3       22.5      4      30.0      4       30.0      4      30.0    4       30.0       4       142.5
Peon                  5.1       3       15.3      4       20.4     4       20.4      4      20.4    4        20.4      4        96.9
Sub-total                            220.8            316.3             316.3            316.3           316.3             1,486.0       0.0
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Cropping Systems Research                  845.0             541.5            442.0            441.0            441.0            2,710.5      30.0
Total Base Cost                                 2,497.0          1,479.0            758.0             757.0           757.0             6,248.0      30.7
Physical Contingencies                            125.0             74.0              38.0             38.0            38.0               313.0
Price Contingencies                               223.0            267.0            207.0             282.0           362.0             1,341.0
Total Cost                                      2,845.0          1,820.0          1,003.0           1,077.0         1,157.0             7,902.0     30.7
,,_,_,.          ----             ----             .......==,       ......             .......
1/  At Jessore and Jamalpur only.
September 18, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Research - Special Projects
Total
Cost       %
Item                                       Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           (000 Tk)   F.E.
Survey - Deep Water Rice                   1,760         -          -          -          -          1,760      10.0
Water Management 1/                        1,800      1,978      2,357      2,734         -          8,869      12.0
Cropping Systems 2/                          919        424        443        443      442           2,671      20.0
Total Base Cost                            4,479      2,402      2,800      3,177       442         13,300      13.5
Physical Contingencies                        224       120        140        159        22            665
Price Contingencies                          400        433        763      1,181       211          2,988
Total Cost                                 5,103      2,955      3,703      4,517      675          16,953      13.5
1/ Excludes $265,620 provided for foreign exchange costs of the program by the consortium supporting BRRI.
2/ Costs of two additional cropping systems sites to be the responsibility of Institutes other than BARI and BRRI.
August 31, 1981
0



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II
BARI and BRRI Training Programs for Extension Staff
Unit            Year I           Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5                Total
Item                    Cost          Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost                 Unit   Cost        F.E.
(Tk 000)              (Tk 000)  -       (Tk 000)       (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)         (Tk 000)            (Tk 000)       %
BRRI
INVESTMENT COSTS
Sedan Cars                295.0            4    1,180.0               -                -                -                -        4    1,180.0    33.1
Equipment -
Camera                  15.0           4        60.0               -                -                -                -        4        60.0
Screens                  5.0           4        20.0               -                -                -                -        4        20.0
Slide Projector         20.0           4        80.0               -                -                -                -        4        80.0
Tape Recorder            5.0           4        20.0               -                -                -                -        4        20.0
180.0              -                -                -                -                180.0
Sub-total                                1,360.0               -                -               -                 -             1,360.0    34.0
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Vehicles  1/                               -       400.0           400.0            400.0            400.0            400.0             2,000.0
Staff Travel                               -       135.0           135.0            135.0            135.0            135.0               675.0
Course Preparation and
Printing                               -        45.O             45.0             45.0             45.0             45.0               225.0
Sub-total                                  580.0           580.0            580.0            580.0            580.0             2,900.0    20.5
BARI
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Regional Field Days              2/        -       240.o           240.0            240.0            240.0            240.0           1,200.0
Substation Field Days            2/        -       150.0           150.0            150.0            150.0            150.0             750.0
Workshops                        3/        -        72.0            72.0             72.0             72.0             72.0             360.0
Teacher Supplies                           -       225.0           225.0            225.0            225.0            225.0           1,125.0
Seeds, fertilizers,etc.                    -       135.0           135.0            135.0            135.0            135.0             675.0
Sub-total                              822.0            822.0            822.0            822.0            822.0           4,110.0       12.8
Total Base Cost                                     2,762.0         1,402.0          1,402.0          1,402.0          1,402.0           8,370.0        15.3
Physical Contingencies                                138.0             70.0            70.0             70.0             70.0             418.0
Price Contingencies                                   247.0           253.0            382.0            521.0            671.0           2,074.0
Total Cost                                          3,147.0         1,725.0          1,854.0          1,993.0          2,143.0          10,862.0       15.3
1/  20,000 miles/year at Tk 5/mile.
2/  Tk 5,000/120 farmers, three field days/regional station/year and 12 field days or sub-station/year.
3/ Tk 150/participant/5 day workshop - 40 participants, three times each year or four regional stations.
September 4, 1981                                                                                                                                       -



BANGTADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension - Incremental Salary and Allowances
Unit Cost           1982/83                1983/84               1984/85                1985/86                1986/87                 Total
(Tk'OO0/        Unit       Coat        Unit       Cost        Unit       Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit        Cost        Unit    Cost
man-year)                (Tk'OOO)              (Tk'O0O)               (Tk'000)              (Tk'000)               (Tk'O00)             (TiZr O)
Salary 1/
Extension Agent (EA)                        4.94           1,241    6,131        1,241    6,131         1,241    6,131         1,757    8,680       2,477    12,236          7,957   39,309
Additional Extension Officer (ADEO)        10.20               -         -         658    6,712           658    6,712           658    6,712          658     6,712         2,632   26,848
Asst. Ext. Officer (ASEO)                   1.56              75       117         ISO       234          201       313          201       313         201        313          828    1,290
Irrig. Agronomists                         19.50               2        39           2        39            2        39            2        39           2         39           10       195
Sub-Total                                                         6,287                                       13,195                 15.744                 19.300
Allowances
EA - lRousing 2/                           1.32            1,241    1,638          991    1,308           491       648         457       603         677        893        3,857    5,090
- Field                                  1.08          1,241    1,340         1,241    1,340         1,241    1,340        1,757    1,898        2,477      2,675         7,957    8,593
- Travel                                1.70           1,241    2,110           991    1,685           491       835         457       777         677      1,151         3,857    6,558
Office Allowances 3/                    0.60           5,816    3,490         6,787    4,072         6,555    3,933        7,171    4,303        7,891      4,735       34,220   20,533
ADEO - Housing and Field                    4.40               -         -         658    2,895           658    2,895           658    2,895          658     2,895         2,632   11,580
- Travel and Subsistence              8.40                -        -          658    5,527           658    5,527          658    5,527          658      5,527        2,632   22,109
Asst. Ext. Officer
- Housing and Field                   3.98              75       299          150       597          201      800          201       800         201        800           828    3,296
- Travel and Subsistence              8.40               75      630          150    1,260           201    1,688          201    1,688          201      1,689           828    6,955
Irrig. Agronomists                        29.00                2       58            2        58            2        58            2        58           2         58           10       290
Sub-Total                                                         9 5618,7                                     17,724                18,549                 2850,4
Incremental Travel Cost
for Existing Staff
Agr. Ext. Officer + ADED                    1.2              298      358          896    1,075           896    1,075           896    1,075          896     1,075         3,882    4,658
Asst. Dir. Agricultural Ext.               10.0               15       150          15       150           15       150           15       150          15        150           75       750
Dy. Asst. Dir. Ag. Ext.                     5.0               15       75           15        75           15        75           15        75          15         75           75      375
Sr. Ext. Officer                            1.5               40       60           40        60           40        60           40        60          40         60          200       300
Dist. Training Officer                      1.5               15       23           15        23           15        23           15        23          15         23           75       115
Sub-Total                                                           666                  1.383                  1 383                 1  8          383         6,198
Total Base Cost                                                    16,518                 33,241                 32,302                35,676                 42,207                159,944
Physical Contingencies                                                826                  1,662                 1,615                  1,784                  2,110                  7,997
Price Contingencies                                                 1,734                  7,330               1_1,227                __                                             64732
Total Cost                                                         19,078                 42,233                45,144                 54,845                 71,373                232,673
Duties and Taxes
1/ Includes salary for additional staff and incremental salary for promotees.
2/ Housing allowance would decline with new housing construction for Extension Agents.
3/ Office rental allowance of Tk 50/month for those EAs not supplied accommodation and space.
September 29, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension - Incremental Support Costs
Unit Cost              1982/83             1983/84              1984/85              1985/86              1986/87              Total
(Tk'000/           UJnit     cost      Unit      Cost       unit      cost       unit      Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost-         FE
per Unit)         pnt         0o00)            (TkOO00)             (Tk'000)             (T0-k-o)             (Tk'000)    Ui       (TCost         FE
Drivers                            6.0/man-year            5         30         5         30         5        30          5         30         5         30         25       150          -
Fuel                              72.0/vehicle-year        5        360         5        360         5        360         5       360          5        360         25    1,800          80
Printing & Operating Costs 1/                                       350                  462                  645                  758                  758                2,973         30
VEA Training Plots                 0.5/plot              150         75       660        330       660        330       660        330       660        330                1,395         30
Office Operating Costs                                            3.590                4.027               4.688                 5.542                5.542               23,389         20
Total Base Cost                                                   4,405                5,209               6,053                7,020                7,020               29,707          25
Physical Contingencies                                              220                  260                  303                  351                  351                1,485
Price Contingencies                                                 463                1.148               2,104                 3,421               4,500                11,636
Total Cost                                                        5,088                6,617                8,460              10,792               11,871               42,828
Duties and Taxes
1/ Operational costs for agencies doing jobs to DEN, such as posters and pamphlets by Agricultural Informetion Service etc.
2/ Includes 2% of construction for maintenance and Tk 20,000 and 10,000 for Districts and Thanas, respectively for Office Operation Cost.
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding errors.
August 31, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension Service, Transport. Equipment and Furniture
Investment Requirements
Unit                Year 1                Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                Year 5                 Total
Cost             Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit     Cost         Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        FE
(Tk'000)                   (Tk'0-00)             (Tk'000)              (T'oo00)              (T'0_00)              (TiO 0)               (Tk'000)      7.
A. Transport
Bicycles for VEA's 1/          2.0            1,734    3,468        1,250    2,500           -          -       1,437    2,874          930    1,860        5,351   10,702          50
Motorcycles  I                17.2                90    1,548         130    2,236         135      2,322         115    1,978            -         -         470    8,084          61
Pick-up for 2
Irrig. Agronomists         225.0                 2      450           -         -          -          -           -         -           -         _            2      450        45
4-Wheel Drive 3/             420.0                 2      840            1      420          -          -           -         -           -         -            3    1.260         65
Sub-Total                                             6,306                 5,156                 2,322                4,852                  1,860                20,496        55
B,  Equipment
Office Equipment             100.0                 3      300           4       400          3        300           -         -           -          -          10    1,000         70
Public Address System          1.0                15       15           -         -          -          -           -         -           -         -           15        15        SO
Parm Equipment 4/              0.5            2,000    1.000        3,800    1.900           -          -         600       300         720       360       7,120    3.560          42
Sub-Total                                             1,315                 2,300                   300                   300                   360                 4,575        48
C.  Furniture
District Level                 8.0                30      240          20       160         10         80           -         -           -          -         60       480         48
Thana Level                    6.0               145      870         180    1,080         265      1,590           -         -            -         -         590    3,540
Union Level                    1.0               250      250         500       500        500        500         250       250            -         -      1,500   1l SO
Sub-Total                                             1,360                 1,740                 2,170                   250                     -                 5,520         10
Total Base Cost                                         8,981                 9,196                 4,792                 5,402                 2,220                30,591         46
Physical Contengencies                                    449                   460                   240                   270                   All                 1,530         46
Price Contengencies                                       80                  1,659                 1,307                 2,009                 1,062                 6,839         46
Total Cost                                             10,232                11,315                 6,339                 7,681                 3,393                38,960         46
Duties and Taxes
1/ Along with bicycles water proof bags would be provided.
2/ Motorcycles required in total, 1,992 (1,582 already available including 400 brought by UNDP).
3/  Vehicles to be used in a pool (1 each for N,W., S.W,, and Dacca) by agencies giving service to DEM.  Regional offices will be custodians.
4/ A set of weeder, hand-hoe, and a seed drill.
Note:  DAJ's, DEM's existing vehicles and other transport assumed to continue to be used in the project area.
September 1, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension Services - Civil Works
Unit           Year 1                Year 2               Year 3                Year 4                Year 5                  Total
Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost          FE
(Tk'O OOunit)           (Tk'OOO)              (Tki'oo)              (Tk'000)              (T--Oo)               (Tk'000)              (TkrO)  h
VEA Housing
Quarteralcum
Office (2 VEA/Reno-
vated seed store)                125         125    15.62          250    31,250         250    31.250         125    151625                      -        750    93.750
Sub-Total                                            15,625                31,250               31,250                 15,625                                      93,750         40
Director of Extension
Services-HQ
Guest House (6,000 sq.ft.)       1,800            -                     1    1,800          -          _                           -               -           1     1,800          40
Training Hall (4,000 sq.ft.)   1,200              -          -         -          -          1      1,200                                           -           1     1,200          40
Equipment and Furniture          6,875            1     6,675          -          -          _        _            _          _          _          -          1      6.875          95
Sub-Total                                               6,875                 1,800                 1,200                                                             9,875          78
Field Offices
District Offices
(5,280 sq.ft.)                 1,636.8         -          -                                1     1,637           2     3,273           -          -          3      4,910         40
Thana offices
(1,855 sq.ft.)                   575           -          -          -          -         15     8.625          15     8.625           -          -         30    17.250          40
Sub-Total                                                                                       10,262                 11,898       .                              22,160         40
Professional Fees
VEA Houses (13.2%)                                      2,063                 4,125                 4,125                 2,063                      -               12,376
Offices (5.5X)                                            543                    99                   630                   654                     -926
Sub-Total                                             2,606                 4,224                4,755                  2,717                     -                14,302
Total Base Cost                                        25,106                37,274                47,467                30,240                     -               140,087        38.6
Physical Contingencies                                  2,511                 3,727                 4,747                 3,024                     -                14,009
Price Contingencies                                     4.143                11.808                23.108                20.479                     -                59.538
Total Cost                                             31,760                52,809                75,322                53,740                     -               213,634        38.6
n I1
September I, 1981.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
R ehmatpur   search Station - Civil Works
Unit             Year 1                 Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4                 Year S                   Total
Cost         Unit       Coat        Unit       Cost        Unit       Cost        Unit       Coat         Unt       Cos-t        Unit      Cost         FE
(TkOOO7unit)              (Tk OOO)               (Tl)000                (TllcOo)               (Tk 000)               (Tak 0GO)               (Tk,O 70)
P-II Quarters (900 sft)                  270.0                  -                1      270.0           .          -                       I                                 1      270.0        40
P-III Quarters (813 aft)                 227.6            -          -           8   1,820.8            8   1,820.8            -                                            16   3,641.6         40
P-IV Quarters (613 sft)                  171.6            -          -           4      686.4           4      686.4           _- _8   1,372.8                                                   40
P-V Quarters (463 aft)                   129.6            -                      4      518.4           4      518.4                                              -          8   1,036.8         40
Guest Quarters (1,600 aft)               395.2            -          -           -          -           1      395.2                                              - -                395.2       40
Guest Quarters Furniture                  60.0                       -           -          -           -       60.0           -           -          -           -          -        60.0       20
Exist. Quarters Renovation                   -            -          -                  250.0                                  -           -                                 -      250.0        40
Offices (3,275 aft)                      949.8            --                     -          -         .33      316.6         .67      633.2           _           _           1      949.8       40
Laboratory (3,860 aft)                1,150.0             -          -                      -         .33      383.3         .67      766.7                                   I -  1   1,150.0   40
Office & Lab. Furniture                  295.0            -          -                                  -          -           -      295.0           -           -          -       295.0       20
Seed Proc. Shed (1,000 aft)              194.0            -           -          1      194,0           -                                  -                      -                  194.0       20
Godown (1,008 aft)                       249.0            -                      1      249.0           -          -           7-                     -           -           1      249.0       30
Covered Threashing Floor
(1,500 sft)                           291.0            -           -          1      291.0                 -                            -                 -          - l          291.0        30
Open Threashing Floor
(3,500 aft)                            85.0            1       85.0           -           -          -                      -           -           -          -           1       85.0        30
Fencing (15,100 lft)                         -            -                      -          -           ..         -           1   1,888.0            -           -           1   1,888.0        30
Approach Road
-Brick (5,000 lft)                          -            -      850.0                            -          -                       -          -           -                -      8500.        15
Farm Roads (3,000 Ift)                       -            -      240.0           -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -      240,0         -
Bridge                                   350.0            1      350.0           -          -           -                                                                     1      350.0       55
Farm Drainage (9,000 aft) &
Flood Gates                                -            -     200.0            -          -           -          -           -                      -                      -      200.0        30
Irrigation (9,000 sft)
Channels                                   -            -          -           -     675.0            -          -           -          -           -           -          -      675.0        20
Grading (110 acre)                           -            -      165.0           -          -           -          -           -                                  -           -      165.0         -
Deep Tubewell &
Pump House                            450.0             1     450.0            -          -          -           -           -          -           -           -          1      450.0        65
Workshop/Garrage
(2,500 aft)                           500.0            -           -          -           -          1      500.0           -           -           _          -           1      500.0        30
Professional Fees                                                142                    300                    283                    217                                              2
Total Base Cost                                               2,469                  5,227                  4,938                  3,723                          -              16,357      *  33
Physical Contingencies                                           247                    523                    494                    372                         -               1,636
Price Contingencies                                              407                   ,656                                        2 .521                                         6 988
Total Cost                                                    3,123                  7,406                  7,836                  6,616                          -              24,981          33
Septemaber 1, ]981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RRSRARCH II PROJIECT
Reatonal Research Stations Expanvion - Civil Works
Unit          Year I                Year 2               Year 3                Year 4              Year 5                 Total
Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit     Coot        Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit     Cost          FE
(Tk'O0/unit)            (Tk'0w)              (Tk')               (T00000)              (TO-( 00)             (TOt00)              (TkO)         7.
Jeseore
P-1I Quarters (900 aft)               270.0          -         -          1     270.0          -         -           -         -         _          _          1      270.0        40
P-III Quarters (813 aft)              227.6          _         _          _                    4    910.4            4    910.4          -          -          8   1.820.8         40
P-V Quarters (463 aft)                129.6          _         _          _         _          2    259.2            2    259.2          -          -          4      518.4        40
Office Block (2,410 sft)              691.9          _         _          _          _         1    691.9            -         -                     -         1      691.9        40
Threashing Floor (5,500 aft)          132.0          1     132.0          -          _-                                                             -          1      132.0        30
Open Threashing Floor
(5,000 aft)                             -         1       80.0          -         -          -         -           -        -          -          -          I      8o.0        30
Furn. Office Block                                   -         -                                                     1     90.0          -          -          I       90.0        20
Farm Roads (1,500 Ift)                    -          1     120.0                                                          -         -               -          1      120.0         -
Sub-Total                                                332.0                270.0             1,861.5               1,259.6                     -              3,723.1
Jaalpur
P-1I Quarters (900 sft)               270.0          -         -          1     270.0          -         -           - -            -                -         1      270.0        40
P-III Quarters (815 aft)              227.6          -         -          -          -         4    910.4            4    910.4           -         -          8   1,820.8         40
P-V Quartera (463 aft)                129.6          -         -          -          _         2    259.2            2    259.2           _          -         4      516.4        40
Office Block (2,410 aft)              691.9          -         -          -          -          1    691.9           -         -                     -                691.9        40
Open Threashing Floor
(1,000 oft)                          25.0         1       25.0                               -         -                                          -          1       25.0        30
Farm Roads (1,500 Ift)                    -          -     120.0          _          _         _         _           _         _          ,         _          -      120.0         -
Culvert                                30.0          1      30.0          -       . -          -         -           -         -          -          -          1      30.0        55
Furn. Office Block                     90.0          -                         -               -                               -               -               -       90.0        20
Sub-Total                                                175.0                270.0             1,861.5               1,259.6                     -              3,566.1
Ishurdi
P-II Quarters (900 aft)               270.0          _         _          1     270.0           -        -           -         -          -          -          1     270.0        40
P-III Quartera (813 aft)              227.6          -         -          2     455.2          2    455.2            -         -          -          -         4      910.4        40
P-V Quarters (463 aft)                129.6          _         _          _          _         2    259.2            2    259.2           -          -         4      518.4        40
Office Block (2,410 aft)              691.9          1     691.9          -          -          -        -           -         -          -          -          1     691.9        40
Office Block Furniture                 90.0          -          -         -       90.0               -               -         -                     -          -      900         20
Sub-Total                                                691.9       _        815.2                714.4                259.2                                     2.480.7
Hathasari
P-II Quarters (900 aft)               270.0          _         _          1     270.0           -        -           -         -          -          -          1     270.0        40
P-III Quarters (813 aft)              227.6          -          -         2     455.2           2    455.2           -         -          -          -         4      910.4        40
P-V Quarters (463 aft)                129.6          _    -          -               -         2    259.2            2    259.2           -          -         4      518.4        40
Office Block (2,410 aft)              691.9          1     691.9                     -                                                     _  _                 1     691.9        40
Office Block Furniture                 90.0          -          -                 90.0          -        -                                -                     -      90.0        20
Sub-Total                                                691.9                815.2                714.4                259.2          _          _               2,480.7
BRRI Donmitory Expansiln                                       -              1,00.8                    _                                          -               1,820.6
Professional Fees                                        114.4                241.5                311.6                153.8                                       851.3
Total Base Cost                                          1,995                4,211                5,435                3,204                       -              14,845          37
Physical Continsenciec                                     200                  421                  544                   320                       -              1,485
Price Contingencies                                        329                1.334                2.646.               2.170                      _                6.479
Total Cost                                               2,524                5,966                8,625                5,694                        _             22,309         37
September 1, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Research Sub-Stations - Civil Works
Unit          Year 1                Year 2               Year 3               Year 4                Year 5                Total
Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit     Cost        Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit      Cost        FE
(Tk'000/unit)           (Tk'000)             (Th'000)             (Tk'000)              (Tk'000)            (Tk'OO0)               (Tk'000)     7.
Bogra
Garrage/Workshop
(1,000 sft)                  200            -         -          1      200           -          -         -          -          -         -           1      200        30
Sub-Total                                                                200                                                                                  200
Thakurgaon
Offices (500 sft)              130            1        130                   -           -         -                     -         -         -           1       130       40
Fencing (5,000 Ift)              -            -          -         -         -           -       313          -       312          -                     -      625        30
Sub-Total                                           130                                        313                  312                                       755        32
Rangpur
Offices (500 sft)              130                                 -                     1       130-                    -         -                     1       130       40
Garrage/Workshop
(1,000 sft)                  200                                                      -          -          1       200          -         -           1      200        30
Sub-Total                                                                                      130                  200                                        330        33
Rajshahi                                                                                                                                                                               o
Garrage/Workshop
(1,000 sft)                  200            -         -          -        -           1        200         -          -          -         -           1      200        30
Farm Roads
(2,000 lft)                    -            _       160          -        -           -          -          -         -          -                            160         -
Deep Tubewell + Pump
House         450            -          -         1       450           -        _           -          -          -        -           1       450        65
Sub-Total                                           160                 450                    200                                                             810        43
Professional Fees                                     16                 36                     35                   28                    -                   115
Total Base Cost                                        306                 686                   678                   540                   -                 2,210        34
Physical Contingencies                                  31                  69                    68                    54                    -                  222
Price Contingencies                                     51                 217                   330                   366                   -                   964
Total Cost                                             388                 972                 1,076                   960                   -                 3,396        34
September 1, 1981                                                                                                                                                              o



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension - Local Training
Unit               Year 1              Year 2             Year 3              Year 4               Total
Cost            Unit      Cost     Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      unit      Cost        FE
(Tk'000/Person)     (Persons)(k-Tk'0O) (Persons)(Tk'OO0) (Persons)(Tk'000) (Persons)(Tk'000) (Persons)(Tk'000)             z
Preappointment
ADA                  1.7               15         26                       -         -                        -       15         26
TEO                  1.7             220        374      109        185        -          -        -          -      329        559
ADEO                 5.0              220     1,110      220      1,110      218      1,090        -          -      658     3,310
SMS II              30.0               20       600       20        600       10        300        -          -       50     1,500
SMS III              5.0               30       150       40        200        -          -        -          -       70       350
DTO                  5.0               15         75       -          -        -        _          -          -       15         75
Sub Total                                   2,335               2,095              1,390                                   5,820          5
In Service
ADA                  0.8                -          _      15         12       15         12       15         12       45         36
DADA                 0.8               15         12      15         12       15         12                   -       45         36
TEO                  0.4                -          -     220         88      329        132      329        132     878         352
ADEO                 0.4                           -     658        263      658        263      658        263   1,974         789
SMS                  0.8                -         -       50         40       50         40       50         40     150        120
DTO                  0.8               15         12      15         12       15         12        -          -       45         36
ASEO                 0.4              350        140     658        263      658        263        -          -   1,666         666
SEO                  0.4               55        22       55         22       55         22       55         22     220         88
Sub Total                                     186                 712                 756                469               2,123          5
Total Base Cost                             2,521               2,807              2,146                 469               7,943          5
Physical Contingencies                        126                 140                 107                  23                396
Price Contingencies                           265                 619                 746                 228              1,858
Total Cost                                  2,912               3,566               2,99                  720             10,197
August 31, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Extension - Foreign Training
Year 1                   Year 2                    Year 3                    Year 4                    Year 5                     Total
Unit Cost          Unit         Cost        Unit          Cost        Unit          Cost        Unit         Cost         Unit_        Cost         Unit          Cost        F.E.
(Tk'bOO/Person)   (Persons)   (Tk'OOO)   (Persons)   (Tk'OOO)   (Persons)   (Tk'OOO)   (Persons)   (Tk'000)   (Persons)   (Tk'OOO)   (Persns)                       (Tk'OO0)    ({)
Subject Matter Training
ADEO and TEA                     60                -            -            5          300           5           300           5          300            5           300          20          1,200
SMS                              60                -            -            5          300           5           300          10          600           10          600           30         1,800
DTO                              60                -            -            3          180            2          120           5          300            5           300          15            900
Sub-Total                                                                               780                       720                    1,200                     1,200                      3.900        100
Study Tour
Higher level Ext. officers
including ADA                  36               -             -          10          360           10          360            -            -             -           -           20           720
Extension Assistants 1/           5                                         -             -          20           100          20           100           20          100          60            300
Sub-Total                                                        -                      360                      460                       n10                        100                      1.020       100      e
Total Base Cost                                                                         1,140                     1,180                     1,300                     1,300                      4,920       100
Physical Contingencies                                             -                       57                        59                        65                       65                        246
Price Contingencies                                                -                      206                       322                      483                        622                     1,633
Total Cost                                                                             1,403                     1,561                     1,848                     1,987                      6,799
1/  Per diem of Tk 200/day for 15 days and transport cost by bus at Tk 2,000/person.
August 31, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Research - Foreign Training
Unit                                                              notal
Cost                                                          Unit      Cost        Z
Item                         (000 Tk)   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5                 (000 Tk)   F.E.
Courses in Cropping
Systems 1/                  88.6  2/     266        532       532        266       -       18 3/      1,595      95.0
Training Fellowships 4/      216.0  5/   2,160      4,320     4,320      4,320        -      70 6/    15,120       95.0
Agency Fees (17%)                           367       734        734       734        -      -2570                100.0
Total Base Cost                          2,793      5,586     5,586      5,320                         19,285      95.7
Physical Contingencies                     140        279       279        266                            964
Price Contingencies                        249      1,008     1,523      1,978                          4,758
Total Cost                               3,182      6,873     7,388      7,564                         25,007      95.7
1/ At IRRI; estimated costs: 5 months at $800/month plus air fare $920.
2/ Per course.
3/ Courses.
4/ Overseas PhD and MSC level.
5/ Per manyear.
6/ Manyears.
August 31, 1981
&1-



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3               Year 4               Year 5                Total
Unit               Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit      Cost          FE
(Tk'000/man-month)       (m/m)   (Tk'00      )        (Tk'000)             (Tk'000)   (mr/nm)   (Tk'000)   (r(mr)   (Tk'000)   (r(/mr)   (Tk'OOO) (
Project Manager                     220                12       2,640       12      2,640        12      2,640       12       2,640        -           -       48       10,560
Management Expert                   220                12       2,640        6       1,320        -           -       -            -       -            -      18        3,960
Extension/Research
Co-ordinator                      144                18       2,592       18      2,592       12       1,728       12       2,728        -           -       60        8,640
Agricultural Extension
Expert                            144                18      2,592       24       3,456       24       3,456       12       1,728        -           -       78       11,232
Short-Tem Consultants               180                 6       1.080       20      3.600       12       2.160       12       2,160        -           -       50        9.000
Total Base Cost                                                11,544              13,608                9,984                8,256                    -                43,392        95
Physical Contingencies                                            577                  680                 499                  413                    -                 2,169
Price Contingencies                                             1,030               2,455                2.722                3.070                    -                 9.277
Total Cost                                                     13,151              16,743               13,205               11,739                    -                54,838        95
September 1, 1981                                                                                                                                                                       8.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit            Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5                Total
Cost         unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      Unit      Cost      uuniit    Cost      Unit      Cos t      FE
(Tk'000/MM)    U(`MC) (Tk'          Ui        Co) (MMR)   (TkO'0o)   (MM)   (Tkooo)   (M-M)   (Tk'0oo)   (MM)   (Tk'000)   (mm)   (T) '000)   Z
Project Manager                       24          1.0        24       0.5        12       1.0        24       0.5        12       1.0         24       4.0        96
Economist                             15            3        45         3        45         3        45         3        45         6         90        18       270
Statistician                          10           12       120         3        30        12       120         3        30        12        120        42       420
Supervisors                          2.5           60       150         -         -        60       150         -         -        60        150       180       450
Field Investigators                  1.6          300       480         -         -       300       480         -         -       300        480       900    1,440
Key Punch/Verify                     3.0            6        18         2         6         6        18         2         6          8        24        24        72
Computer Analysis Charge               -            -        75         -        75         -        75         -        75          -       150.        -       450
Field Allowances                     0.9          360       324         -         -       360       324         -         -       360        324    1,080        972       30
Printing Cost                          -            -         -         -        50         -         -         -        50          -        50         -       150
Fixed Fees (15%)                       -            -       185         -        33         -       185         -        33          -      212          -       648
Sub-Total                                               1,421                 251               1,421                 251               1,624               4,968
Monitoring Consultants                15             -        -         2        30         -         -         2        30          -         -         4        60
Accounting Consultants                10            6        60         6        60         -         -         -          -         -         -        12       120
Total Base Cost                                           1,481                 341               1,421                 281               1,624                5,148        6
Physical Contingencies                                       74                  17                  71                  14                   81                 257
Price Contingencies                                         132                  62                 387                 104                  777               1,462
Total Cost                                                1,687                 420               1,879                 399               2,482                6,867        6
September 4, 1981
m!



-66-
ANNEX 2
Table 24
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Credit Allocation 1/
Category                                      Amount
(US$M)
Extension Staff Costs                           7.5
Civil Works                                    12.5
Equipment & Vehicles                            2.5
Research Grants                                 1.0
Training, Monitoring & Evaluation               2.0
Unallocated 1/                                   1.5
Total                                          27.0
1/  Based on physical contingency.
October 8, 1981



-67-
ANNEX 2
Table 25
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule 1/
(US$M)
Amount
FY/Otr                                      Qtr     Cumulative
83/1
2
3
4                                       0.3          0.3
84/1                                        0.5         0.8
2                                       0.9          1.7
3                                       1.2          2.9
4                                       0.5          3.4
85/1                                        0.8         4.2
2                                       1.8          6.0
3                                       2.1          8.1
4                                       1.2          9.3
86/1                                       1.0         10.3
2                                       2.1         12.4
3                                       2.5         14.9
4                                       1.4         16.3
87/1                                       0.9         17.2
2                                       1.8         19.0
3                                       2.1         21.1
4                                       1.2         22.3
88/1                                        1.2        23.5
2                                       1.2         24.7
3                                       1.2         25.9
4                                       1.1         27.0
1/ Assumes about one year lag between incurring expenditures and reimbursements,
October 8, 1981



-68-                             ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Production, Farm Budgets and Economic Analysis
Table  1.     Crop Budgets per Acre for Local Varieties (in Financial Prices).
Table  2.     Crop Budgets per Acre for Improved Varieties (in Financial
Prices).
Table  3.     Revised Estimates of Fertilizer Application.
Table  4.     Revised Estimate of Crop Yields.
Table  5.     Research Agencies' Fertilizer Recommendation and Estimates of
Yield.
Table  6.     Summary of Crop Input Requirements.
Table  7.     High Yielding Varieties of Rice Released by BRRI.
Table  8.     Crop Budgets for Improved Varieties (in Economic Prices).
Table  9.     Derivation of Prices for Rice and Wheat in the Economic
Analysis.
Table 10.     Derivation of Fertilizer Prices in the Economic Analysis.
Table 11.     Financial and Economic Price Assumptions.
Table 12.     Projection of Area under the Project.
Table 13.     Economic Analysis.



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Crop Budgets per Acre for Local Varieties (in Financial Prices)-/ -
Items                          Aus          B. Aman       T. Aman         Boro
Value of Production          P and FW      P and FW      P and FW       P and FW
Paddy - Maunds                 (9)           (11)           (14)          (15)
- Tk                      945       1,265          1,610         1,575
Straw - Maunds                (18)           (22)           (28)          (30)
- Tk                      144          176           224           240
Gross Value              1,089        1,441         1,834         1,815
Production Input Costs
Fertilizers:
Urea  - Seers                 (10)            (10)          (12)          (13)
- Tk                    28              28            33            36
TSP  - Seers                   -             (2)            (4)          (10)
- Tk                      -              4             8            20
MP  - Seers                   -               -            (2)           (4)
- Tk                      -              -             4             7
Seed  - Seers                 (40)           (40)           (20)          (16)
- Tk                   104             104            52            42
Draft Power B. Pair days    (12)             (12)           (16)          (16)
- Tk                   240             240           320           320
Miscellaneous - Tk             20             20             20            20
Labor - Mandays               (35)           (40)           (65)          (68)
- Tk                   420             480           780           816
Total Cost - Tk          812            876         1,217         1,261
Net Crop Value - Tk    277              565           617           554
1/ Production details in Table 6.
2/ Prices in Table 12.
October 8, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Crop Budgets per Acre for Improved Varieties (in Financial Prices)L/-/
Rainfed          Irrigated
Items                                     Aus            T. Aman              Boro            Wheat             Wheat
Value of Production                   FWO      FW       FWO      FW       FWO      FW       FWO      FW       NWO      FW
Paddy - Maunds                        (22)     (31)     (23)    (32)      (27)     (38)      (9)    (14)      (22)     (30)
- Tk                           2,310   3,255   2,645   3,680   2,835   3,990           945   1,470   2,310   3,150
Straw - Maunds                        (22)     (31)     (23)    (32)      (27)     (38)      (9)    (14)      (22)     (30)
- Tk                              44       62       46       64       54       76       18       28       44        60
Grosa Value                     2,354   3,317   2,691   3,744   2,889   4,066           963   1,498   2,354   3,210
Incremental Value                     963             1,053             1,177               535               856
Production Input Costs
Fertilizer:
Urea  - Seers                         (19)     (36)     (26)     (34)     (30)     (50)     (13)     (25)     (30)     (43)
- Tk                              52       99       72       94       83      138       36        69       83      118
TSP   - Seers                          (4)    (20)      (10)     (25)     (12)     (28)     (10)     (25)    (20)      (36)
- Tk                               8       40       20       50       24       56       20       50        40       72
MP    - Seers                          (2)    (10)       (7)    (12)       (5)    (14)       (4)      (6)      (6)     (10)
- Tk                               4       18       12       21         9      25         7       11       11       18
Pesticides - Seers                    (1/2)    (1)    (1/2)    (1)        (1/2)     (1)        -        -     (1/2)    (1/2)
- Tk                             125      250      125      250      125      250       -         -       125      125
Seed  - Seers                         (40)    (36)      (16)    (16)      (16)     (16)    (40)      (40)     (40)     (40)
- Tk                             105       94       46       46       42       42      105      105       105      105
Draft Power B. pair days              (12)     (15)    (16)      (18)     (16)     (18)     (12)     (15)     (12)      (16)
- Tk                             240      300      320      360      320      360      240      300       240      320
Irrigation - Tk                         -        -        -        -        945   1,053        -        -       324      405
Miscellaneous - Tk                       20       40       50       60       50       75       20       40        50       75
Labor - Mandays                       (52)    (55)    (65)       (70)     (63)     (66)     (40)     (45)     (55)      (66)
- Tk                             624      660      780      840      756      792      480      540       660      792
Total Cost                      1,178   1,501   1,425   1,721                2,791       908   1,115   1,638   2,030
Incremental Cost                      323               296               437               207               392
Inc. B/c Ratio                        2.98              3.5               2.7               2.6               2.18
Net Crop Value                  1,176   1,816   1,266   2,023         535   1,275         55      383      716   1,180
1/  Production details in Table '                                                    
2/ Prices in Table 12.
October 8, 1981



ANNEX 3
-71-                             Table 3
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Revised Estimates of Fertilizer Application
(Seers/Acre)
Urea                 TSP                 MP
Improved Varieties                   FWO        FW       FWO        FW        FWO       FW
Aus                                   19        36          4       20          2       10
T. Aman                               26        34         10       25          7       12
Boro                                  30        50         12       28          5       14
Wheat - Rainfed                       13        25         10       25          4        6
Wheat - Irrigated                     30        43         20       36          6       10
1/ Mission Estimates.
October 8, 1981



-72-                           ANNEX 3
Table 4
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Revised Estimates of Crop Yields 1/
Yield                         Yield
(Maunds/Acre)                  (Tons/Acre)
Improved Varieties              FWO        FW                  FWO       FW
Aus                              22         31                 .82    1.16
T. Aman                          23         32                 .86    1.19
Boro                             27         38                1.01    1.42
Wheat - Rainfed                   9         14                 .34      .52
Wheat - Irrigated                22         30                 .82    1.12
1/ Mission Estimates
October 8, 1981



-73-                                   ANNEX 3
Table 5
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Research Agencies Fertilizer Recommendation and Estimates of Yield 1/
Fertilizer                     Yield
(Seers /Acre)                 (Maunds/Acre)
Urea   TSP  MP
Local Varieties
Aus                               60     40  20                        30
T Aman                            60     40  20                        45
Boro                             60      40  20                        45-50
Improved Varieties
Aus                              80      60  30                        45
T. Aman                          80      60  30                        60-70
Boro                             108     60  30                        60-70
Wheat-Rainfed                     60     60  15                        25-30
Wheat-Irrigated                  100     60  20                        40-45
1/  Estimates based on discussions with BRRI and BARI.
September 22, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Summary of Crop Input Requirements for Improved Varieties
. (Per Acre)
Aus           T. Aman           Boro         Rainfed Wheat       Irrigated Wheat
FWO    PW      FWO      FW      FWO      FW      FWO         FW     FWO            FW
Urea (46% N) (seers)             19      36     26        34      30      50      13          25      30            43
TSP (46% N) (seers)               4      20     10        25      12      28      10          25      20            36
MP (60% K) (seers)                2      10      7        12       5      14       4           6       6            10
Pesticides (seers)                0.5    1       0.5       1       0.5     1       -           -       0.5           0.5
Labor (mandays)                  52      55     65        70      63      66      40          45      55            66
Bullock Power (pair days)        12      15     16        18      16      18      12          15      12            16
Seed (seers)                     40      36     16        16     16       16      40          40      40            40
Irrigation (acre inches)          -      -       -         -      35      39       -           -      12            15
FWO = Future Without Project
FW = Future With Project
October 8, 1981
X 



BARI2LAD93R,
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT'
High Yielding Rioe Varieties Aloeazed byl BHI
Narme of Variety            Year of Releaso          Reocrnmenlod for Season         Yield Poterctial      , ,  Speoi.a  Charaoteristioe
-( (dx/aore)
BRl (Chandina)                   1970                    Borof Aus                      50 _ 60   .hort# early maturing variety.
BR2 (Mala)                       1971                    Boro, Ausn                     50 -65.               Faat growingt early shading
typot able to compete with
weeds6
BR3 (Biplap)                     1973                    B3oro, Aus, T.mana -           60- 70                High yield potential; high
* resistanoe to iisoots and
^    '-   . '*    .          . ~~~di64eease
Lu
BR4 (Barisal)                    1975                    T. Aman                        60   70               tPall seedlings suitable for
planting in deeper water.
High yield potentiall
resiotant to irseots and
;   ,            ~~~~diseaoeX.
BfR5 (Dula bhog)                 1976                    T. Lrnan ,                     25 - 30               Qualit,y  fine-grained aromatic
.,   .   -. !    . rice.
BR6                              1977                    Boro, Aus                      35 - 45              Short duratict variety.
B1R7 (Brri Balan)                1977                    Boro, Aus                      40          -         Pine grainedl quality rio.,
BR8 (Asha)                       1978                    Boroi Aung  .                  50   60               Tall seedling height5
I'6h  yield potential.
BF9 (Sufala)                     1978                    Borot Aug                      40                     W ;0  L 'l soedling height; early
- . .s                                  A ma;,IQ,.',, 't x ,f    .   ,' . .*lwzlat- high yield potential.
BRO, BRll                        1979                    T.Aanuu                        50-60% .builtabl  for lste tranw--
-.  *.j-         . .      ,~~~ D.lUeZt  .-n Amant high yielding.
.. .. .b M l.E
September 22, 1981                  -                                                                            .



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Crop Budgets for Improved Varieties in Economic Prices 1/ 2/
(Taka/Acre)
Rainfed            Irrigated
Aus              T Aman              Boro               Wheat                Wheat
FWO      FW        FWO       FW       FWO       FW       FWO       FW        FWO         FW
Gross Value of Production
Paddy                                 3,168   4,464      3,634   5,056      3,888   5,472       1,467   2,282      3,586      4,890
Straw                                    44       62        46       64        54       76         18       28         44        60
Gross Value                           3,212   4,526      3,680   5,120       3,942   5,548      1,485   2,310      3,630      4,950
Incremental Value                         1,314              1,440               1,606               825                 1,320
Production Costs
Fertilizers - Urea                       98      185       134      175        155     258         67      129        155       221
- TSP                       27      136         68     170         81     190         68      170        136        244
- MP                        10       49         34      58         24      68         19       29         29         49
Pesticides                              125      250       125      250        125     250          -        -        125       125
Seed                                    144     130         64       64         58      58        160      160       160        160
Draft Power                             180      225       240      270        240     270        180      225        180       240
Irrigation                                -        -         -        -     1,015   1,131           -        -        348       435
Miscellaneous                            16       31        39       47         47      59         16       31         47         59
Labor                                   312      330       390      420        378     396        240      270        330       396
Total Production Cost                   912   1,336      1,094   1,454      2,123   2,680         750   1,014      1,510      1,929
Incremental Cost                            424                360                 557               264                   419
Incremental B/C Ratio                       3.1                4.0                 2.9               3.1                   3.2
Net Crop Value                        2,300   3,190      2,586   3,666      1,819   2,868         735   1,296      2,120      3,021
Incremental Net Crop Value                  890              1,080              1,049                561                   901
1/  Production details in Table 6.
2/ Prices in Table 6.
October 8, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Derivation of Prices for Rice and Wheat in the Economic Analysis
(1981 Constant Prices)
Rice/Paddy                      Wheat
Aman Aus-Boro
Projected World Market Price
1982-90 (US$/M.T)1/                                                                  575        575                    239
Insurance (US$/M.T)                                                                    2          2                      1
Freight to Bangladesh Port
(US$/M.T)                                                                            30         30                     65
C.I.F. Chittagong (US$/M.T)                                                          607        607                    305
C.I.F. Chittagong (Tk/Md)2/                                                          408        408                    205
Adjustment for Quality Differential3/                                                  0.70       0.65                   0.90
Adjusted C.I.F. Price (Tk/Md)                                                        286        265                    185
Local Costs between Port and Market (Tk/Md)4/                                         16         16                     18
Market Price (Tk/Md)                                                                 302        281                    203
Local costs between Market and Farm Gate (Tk/Md) 5/                                 - 59       - 59                   _ 40
Sub-Total                                                                        243        222                    163
Processing Ratio                                                                   0.65       0.65                   1.0
Farm Gate Price (Tk/Md)                                                          158        144                    163
1/  Source:  IBRD Updated Commodity Price Forecasts dated June 1981.  Prices are in constant dollars.
Pricing Basis: Rice: Thai milled 5% broken, F.O.B. Bangkok
Wheat: Canadian No. 1 Western Red
Spring (CWRS) in store Thunder Bay
2/ Official exchange rate of Tk 18 = U.S.$1. One metric ton (M.T.) = 26.8 maunds.
3/ For 25% to 35% broken. Larger per cent for Aus and Boro crops which are of inferior quality.
4/  Data supplied by Ministry of Food adjusted by a SCF of 0.78 for non-traded items.
5/  Costs established by a GOB study and adjusted by a SCF of 0.78 for non-traded items.
SeDtember 22, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Derivation of Fertilizer Prices Used in the Economic Analysis
(1981 Constant Prices)
Items                                                 Urea                  TSP                MP
Projected Average World Market Price
1982-90 (US$/M.T)1/                                                     274                  230                 117
Adjustment for Bags                                                                             30                  30
Insurance (US$/M.T)                                                         1                    1                  1
Freight to Bangladesh                                                      202/                 65                 65
CIF in Bags Chittagong (US$/M.T)                                          295                 326                 213
CIF in Bags Chittagong (Tk/Md)3/                                          198                 219                 143
Local costs between Port and District Store (Tk/Md)4/                    - 22                + 22                + 22
Market Price (Tk/Md)                                                      176                  241                 165
00
Local costs between District Store and Farm Gate (Tk/Md)5/                 30                   30                  30
Farm Gate Price (Tk/Md)                                                   206                 271                  195
1/  Source:  IBRD updated Commodity Price forecasts dated June 1981.  Prices are in constant dollars.
Pricing Basis:  Urea:  Bagged FOB Europe
TSP : FOB US Gulf in bulk
MP  : FOB Vancouver in bulk.
2/  Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to market in South Asia would
command a price advantage over European suppliers.
3/ Official exchange rate of Tk 18 = US$1. One metric ton (MT) = 26.8 maunds.
4/ Data supplied by Ministry of Food adjusted by a SCF of 0.78 for non-traded items.
5/  Costs established by a GOB study and adjusted by  a SCF of 0.78 for non-traded items.
September 22, 1981



BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Financial and Economic Price Assumptions
(1981 Constant Prices)
Item                                                  Financial Prices 1/                                                   Economic Prices 2/
Tk/Md    $/MT-                                                           Tk/Md   $tMT
Outpuit
Paddy - Aman                                                    115      171                                                              158    235
- Aus/Boro                                                105      156                                                             144    214
Rice Straw3/                                                      8       12                                                                6      9
Wheat                                                           105      156                                                              163    243
Wheat Straw3/                                                     2        3                                                                2      3
Inputs                                    Tk/Seer/Tk/Md    $/MT                                              ________       Tk/Md   $T _
Seeds
Aman Rice                                    2.9        115     171                                                   4.0        158    235
Aus/Boro Rice                                2.6        105     156                                                   3.6        144    214
Wheat                                        2.6        105     156                                                   4.0        163    243
Fertilizers
Urea                                         2.75       110     164                                                   5.15       206    306
TSP                                          2.00        80     119                                                   6.78       271    403       s
MP                                           1.75        70     104                                                   4.87       195    290
Pesticides4/                                          250    10,000  14,880                                                    250    10,000 14,880
Other Inputs                                                  Takas                                                                  . Takas
Animal Power/pair day 5/                                                  20                                                                       15
Labor/Man day6/                                                           12                                                                       6
Irrigation/Acre inch7/                                                    27                                                                      29
1/  Financial prices derived from 6-year average (1975/76-1980/81) valued in 1981 Taka.
2/  Economic prices for paddy and wheat calculated in Table 10.            Fertilizer prices calculated in Table   19
3/  Rice straw and wheat are non-traded items and adjusted by SCF = .78.
4/  All subsidies on pesticides are removed and the market is privatized.  Hence the financial and economic prices are the same.
5/  Adjusted by SCF = 0.78.
6/  Economic price of labor is assumed to be 68% of financial prices because of periodic under unemployment in agriculture.  Labor also
adjusted by SCF = 0.78.
7/  Weighted average of costs of STW, DTW, LLP from Annex 2 Table 6 ofJoint  GOB/IDA Review of the Minor Irrigation Sector draft dated
April 8, 1981.
September 22, 1981



-80-                          ANNEX 3
Table 12
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Projection of Area under Project
('000 Acres)
Local Varieties                 1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Aus                               5,800     5,600      5,400     5,200      5,000
B. Aman                          4,500      4,700      4,300     4,000      3,700
T. Aman                          5,400      5,100      4,800     4,500      4,500
Boro                                600       600        600       600        600
Improved Varieties
Aus                                 700       900      1,100     1,300      1,500
T. Aman                          1,000      1,200      1,500     1,800      1,800
Boro                             1,200      1,400      1,600     1,800      2,000
Rainfed Wheat                       710       840        970       970        970
Irrigated Wheat                  1,260      1,430      1,600     1,600      1,600
October 8, 1981



-81-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 13
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(Millions of Takas)
Incremental      Incremental         Project-      Net Cash
Year         Benefit       Working Capital       Cost            Flow
1                0              4.5             141.7         -146.2
2             15.4              5.0             182.3         -171.9
3             33.4             12.1             182.8         -161.5
4             77.2             13.8             160.0          -96.6
5           132.6              17.7             105.9             9.0
6           204.4              21.1              99.8           83.5
7           289.9              23.4              99.8          166.7
8           384.4              24.3              99.8          260.3
9           482.6              24.7              99.8          358.1
10           582.4            -146.6              99.8          286.4
P.V at 12%   8,604             115               903          7,586
Economic Rate of Return   44%
1/ Operating cost of existing project area extension staff presently not
under T&V has been included for the purposes of ERR calculation.
October 13, 1981



-82-
BANGLADESH
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH II PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data
Available on the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.   IBRD, Bangladesh:  Food Policy Issues
Report No. 2761-BD
December 19, 1979
2.   IBRD, Bangladesh:  Current Economic Situation and Review of Second Plan
Report No. 3309-BD
February 23, 1981
3.   IBRD and Government of Bangladesh:  Review of the Bangladesh Water
Development Board
Report No. 2327
April 2, 1981
4.   Government of Bangladesh:  Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
Volumes I and II
February 2, 1981
5.   Government of Bangladesh:  Second Five-Year Plan
6.   IBRD Revised Draft by Prem Gerg:  Bangladesh-Medium Term Food Production
Plan, Planning Assistance Mission
District-wise Production Targets
February 28, 1980
7.   Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics:  The Yearbook of Agricultural
Statistics of Bangladesh 1979-80
Published in December 1980
B. Selected Working Papers
1.   Report of the Preparation Mission for the Second Bangladesh
Extension and Research Project
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
April 27, 1981
2.   Preparation Mission Working Papers I and II
3.   Sector, Background
4.   Project Area Background
5.   Manpower Availability and Training
6.   Research
7.   Government Project Approach and Funding Procedures
8.   Farm Budgets and Economic Analysis



<   t 31  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~XENIN AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
:  tt  < _    1  <                                           x1al.1 n a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, j ReerhIPeosP2. 
r r ' 1 >- e gr 6 *;ql [} str :1 Pnt ds- e.~~~~~-7
J 4> o? /%Dd1 PX ,. , ,,t,,, 32~~~~Q ,,
"  VA't  W X C X ' H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN    -  .1, .G- t'.
'''  J1 :'1    tt <
;                                                                                                     ..~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K I  h   _ lnJ    hl SHO.*=f   xa n \ 
< ;t i> i\PAP N A)
2Jo \ ; t aW X ' _ -V~~ib4  ds .), zdhtar  
t  S  _  ;ffi LFlPr lrn zegG 2 D a 1~~~~~~T
fl;   ^         _     &                                    ..............................................  - s   stq     5     5 ..........FA R......D.. P  
'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                  I  
-229~~ ~~~~~~~~~ Hn         L   'N.t/ 6     '- <     1.utx; ,  aj/    <* E- -CHI          .     
-2 r>>a. t2e d,/r- -    ....{o     ..-i{  ]--  ,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MN YDa ..    2
; u  XJ                                                             tL  Wunt t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
AI   . /   ,; ,/,, N  _71O   uX-2                                       ! \i       2s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R , 






| |  f\\\  : 9Q0: k e f:  : ::    90   : ;           :     BANGLAIDESH  t:        D3: :0;   
L  '?94   t   . w                          :    ~~~~~~~~EXTFNSION  AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT:        
t l )   Y    t    iS   21:    '.  :   ;         ~~~~RESEARCH    STATIONS      
-   :    : .8  \_  ~~~~  a  : ~~  PX   S  '   A    f    S: 0 L  O  S@rTrG ~~~~6 R essc  S5 
t    /   0  t  z, V i~~~~~D                                             -.t\<t f    usa .... ,isez ssr Stso-oh..........   
t ThokrqQX ~95 #, '- Dm :r  -5 <<< @ AU  
S  l,-   k   ]-S0NhGM  LA   \Cr   X                    eSRI           :                             1
r \s,,  <  <  w L;_ -l-.,'g t  + 7Dv61pdJdlzl ,l.
:    _ '               4 -,   0 t;                                                X    0~~~~~~~~~-V L--
i ,   ( : : . _ t     ' ; 6 T : . s i :  8 i      C   .       e e     g a               i   s - N
;ft i it t . F R~~~G,   ',jo CI^dX) a lS
,t   ii  .  9  I- tq UE,2 A ii ,, \ 80GRhA JR r         
I  ) =  =  7 i  B  J   2    (n   S   1     '~~~~~Mqdh- -nss!Gsbardrs' \                           =    '
}  :  : ::: 0 ;,/3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-AL9<CcI .t q- \t 04e
it j   x   >'s 21'           {  O   zd    0A 3      5t  
;0~~~~          ~~ j- ,  5   f e //,          1 ,      NG    9\0                                        0 0
X   "'" '31 tXNKA               5'                      01                        S "       ,   ;     B | 
_  _ _ _  _     _ .    _ _                                _         _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~I 



