Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE COPY
Report No. P-3202-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
February 10, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention cur-
rency. On December 30, 1981, the exchange rate was set at Tk 37.9568 buying
and Tk 38.0568 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate move-
ments between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross-rate is
subject to change. In recent months, this rate has fluctuated between Tk 18
and Tk 20 per US$. IJnless otherwise specified, the rates shown below have
been used throughout this report.
US$1            =   Tk 18.0
Tk 1            =   US$0.0556
Tk 1 million    =   US$55,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                   =         0.405 hectare (ha)
1 sq mile                     =        2.59 sq. km.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA     -       Assistant Director Agriculture, DAE
ADEO    -       Additional Thana Extension Officer
ATI     -       Agricultural Training Institute
BARC    -       Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI    -       Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, MAF
BRRI    -       Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, MAF
DAJ     -       Directorate of Agriculture (Jute), MAF
DAE     -       Department of Agriculture Extension, MAF
DEM     -       Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management), MAF
EA      -       Extension Agent includes IJAA, VEA and JEA
EARI    -        Extension and Research I Project (Cr. 729-BD)
FAO     -       Food and Agriculture Organization
GOB     -       Government of Bangladesh
HDB     -       Horticulture Development Board, MAF
IADS    -       International Agriculture Development Service
IRRI    -       International Rice Research Institute
JEA     -       Jute Extension Agent
MAF     -       Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MTFPP   -       Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
PIW     -       Project Implementation Wing, MAF
PPD     -       Plant Protection Directorate, MAF
SMS     -       Subject Matter Specialists
TDB     -       Tobacco Development Board, MAF
TEO     -       Thana Extension Officer
T&V     -       Training and Visit
UAA     -       Union Agricultural Assistant
UNDP    -       United Nations Development Program
VEA     -       Village Extension Agent
WDB     -       Water Development Board
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:                       SDR 23.2 million (US$27.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
Project Description:          The project would support the Goverment's
objective of achieving food self-sufficiency
through: a) merging and reorganizing 5
existing extension agencies under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests; b) intensifying
extension work in 15 districts by adding
2,330 extension staff positions; c) providing
specialized training and technical assistance;
d) improving mobility by providing bicycles,
motorcycles and other vehicles; e) constructing
new offices and rehabilitating 750 abandoned
seed stores as housing-cum-offices; f) expanding
a Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
(BARI) coconut research station into a regional
station and upgrading 8 other stations and
g) reorganizing BARI regional research program
and providing research grants through Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC). The
intensified extension effort is expected to
benefit about 30% of the farm families in the
project area and increase production of rice
and wheat by about 4%.
Risks:                        The project faces possible delays stemming
from the merger of 5 extension agencies.
This risk has been minimized through a
phased merger and the provision of substantial
technical assistance. The project also faces
a financial risk due to government budgetary
procedures which sometimes delay the release
of funds. The project provides for a re-
volving fund to minimize such constraints.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                              Local         Foreign         Total
---------- (US$ million)       -
Extension
Equipment & vehicles                      0.9           0.8            1.7
Civil works                               5.1           2.7            7.8
Incremental operating costs               9.5           1.0           10.5
Training                                  0.8           0.4            1.2
Sub-total                             16.3           4.9           21.2
Research
Rahmiatpur station                        0.9           0.4            1.3
Other research stations                   0.6           0.4            1.0
Adaptive research & training              1.2           1.3            2.5
Sub-total                              2.7           2.1            4.8
Technical Assistance & Monitoring
& Evaluation                            0.4           2.3            2.7
Total Base Cost                          19.4           9.3           28.7
Physical Contingency                      1.3           0.6            1.9
Price Contingency                         7.3           3.0           10.3
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST I/          28.0          12.9           40.9
Financing Plan:
IDA                                      17.0          10.0           27.0
Government                               10.9            -            10.9
UNDP                                      0.1           2.9            3.0
Estimated
Disbursement:
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
-----------------US$ million--------
Annual                      0.3      3.1     5.9      7.0      6.0     4.7
Cumulative                  0.3     3.4      9.3    16.3    22.3    27.0
Economic Rate of Return:         44%
Appraisal Report:                Bangladesh: Extension and Research II Project,
Report No. 3654-BD, dated February 2, 1982.
1_    cusui_dteoU$.mlo qian
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$3.8 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 23.2 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$27.0 million), on standard IDA terms, to help
finance a Second Extension and Research Project. Parallel financing in the
form of a grant of about $3.0 million equivalent would be made available by
the UNDP.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February
23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Production in both agriculture and manufacturing
fell drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid
1970s. The terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining real wages,
rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability added to the
difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers were by
necessity largely preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabilitation and
the need to shape.a national government out of a provincial administration.
The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and replaced by a
scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme" (FY76-78) in
response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.5% p.a. despite
several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing
(as measured by the production index for large and medium-scale industries)
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the Tex-
tile Industry Rehabilitation Project (Report No. P-3185-BD), dated
January 13, 1982.



-2-
rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, which was accompanied by some
acceleration in domestic inflation rate in FY81, the concluding years of the
decade witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy
measures to attain longer-term development goals. These included a
strengthening of budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food
distribution policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private
sector in developing the economy.
5.        The past few years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial law. In
elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the new National Assembly. Roughly two-thirds of the seats were
won by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty addi-
tional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Fol-
lowing the convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was
lifted and a new cabinet appointed. In May 1981 President Ziaur Rahman was
assassinated. The Vice-President, Mr. Justice Abdus Sattar, was named Acting
President and subsequently won the presidential elections held on November
15, 1981.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        The economic consolidation during the second half of the past
decade was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81.
Favorable weather and several years of stepped-up provision of agricultural
inputs helped turn the foodgrain supply situation around. Rice production
reached a record 13.7 million tons--an increase of 9% over the disappointing
FY80 level--while wheat production continued to expand rapidly, totalling 1.2
million tons. As output in industrial and service sectors also increased
substantially over their FY80 levels, overall GDP growth for the year is
estimated to have been of the order of 7.5%. While the recent increase in
agricultural production can be partly attributed to favorable weather, a
significant part of the increase is due to Government policies in increasing
investment in irrigation, improving distribution of inputs especially through
increased private sector involvement, and substantially increasing the
Government foodgrain procurement program.
7.        Notwithstanding these improvements in production, Bangladesh
experienced growing financial difficulties during FY81. Sharply higher
petroleum prices, declining export prices for jute goods and a shortfall in
commodity aid availabilities below the Government's expectations affected the



-3-
balance of payments. The shortfall in aid receipts, an unanticipated short-
fall in debt service payments from public enterprises, and substantial expen-
ditures of food procurements which were necessary in order to maintain incen-
tive farmgate prices in a record crop year also affected the budget. A budget
deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to about 2 1/2% of GNP at market prices,
emerged in FY81. As a result, credit ceilings for June 1981 established in
consultation with the IMF in the context of the EFF arrangement were exceeded
by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was temporarily suspended.
An IMF mission visited Bangladesh in November/December 1981 to discuss the
Government's plans to restore financial stability. The Fund is currently
reviewing the situation in the light of the country's financial and balance
of payments prospects.
The Balance of Payments
8.        Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.  Export earn-
ings in FY81 represented a mere 6% of GDP and less than 30% of the import
bill.  Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute
and jute goods, which together account for two thirds of total export earn-
ings. A sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of
major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish products, meant that
exports in value terms stagnated in FY81, although increasing substantially
in volume terms. Imports, however, rose rapidly through FY81 in value terms,
as a result of increased costs of crude petroleum and petroleum products
(although the volume of these imports increased very slowly since the early
1970s they now account for 20% of import payments), and capital goods
imports, which have risen rapidly in recent years and currentlv account for
26% of total imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade, mainly as a result of
higher petroleum import prices and the sharp decline in export prices noted
earlier, deteriorated in FY81.
9.        The current account deficit--US$1.45 billion in FY81--has been
considerably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth
of workers' remittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the
second most important source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments gap
was largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion, close
to half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements increased
substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity,
there was, as noted earlier, crucial shortfall in commodity aid
availabilities and new commitments. Bangladesh also made considerable use of
IMF resources, including initial drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF arrange-
ment which became effective in December 1980 and which was recently tem-
porarily suspended.
10.       The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  While
a significant increase in export earnings seems unlikely, Bangladesh again
faces the unwelcome prospect of limited commodity aid availabilities. Given



-4-
the tight foreign exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below
FY81 levels in real terms with consequent detrimental effects on production,
especially in the hanufacturing sector. Gross reserves in October 1981 were
around $130 million, the equivalent of three weeks imports; there appears to
be little scope for running down reserves further or for substantially
increasing short-term borrowing to tide-over present payment difficulties.
11.       Debt service payments totalled US$94 million in FY80 and US$110
million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio, about 11.6% in FY80 fol-
lowing some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, increased to
about 13.2% in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the
mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid is
provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed
external public debt amounted to just under USS3.5 billion as of December 31,
1980 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 28.1% of the
total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt
service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Public Finance
12.       Government finances which had improved considerably in FY79
deteriorated in FY80 and FY81, partly as a result of expenditures for invest-
ments in foodgrain stocks, and lower than expected contributions by the major
public sector corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with the choice of
cutting back development outlays or resorting to bank financing well in
excess of established credit ceilings, the Government chose to reduce the
development budget by about 13%. Nevertheless, the final deficit for FY81
substantially exceeded revised forecasts and necessitated bank borrowing of
about Taka 5 billion. The budgetary situation is expected to continue to be
tight in FY82. The severe balance of payments situation will have a substan-
tial impact on tax revenues while the continued need for a large government
foodgrain procurements will add to financing requirements. Even with major
efforts to mobilize additional budgetary resources, a reduction in develop-
ment expenditures of at least 15% below budgeted levels will be necessary to
contain the budget deficit to manageable proportions.
13.       The Government has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies. In recent years, GOB has raised foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflation, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughly 140% since November 1979. Nevertheless, following the
depreciation of the taka, further adjustments will be required to eliminate
the subsidy on this account.



-5-
14.       Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation--which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 17.3%
in FY80--declined substantially in FY81 to only about 8%. However, as a
result of the rapid expansion in credit in FY81 and the decline in food
production in FY82, inflation has accelerated during the first few months of
FY82 and is now running at annual rate of about 15%. Tight controls were
placed on credit growth in the early part of FY82 in order to re-establish
financial stability and, as a consequence, the rate of inflation is expected
to slow down.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
15.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980)
accords high priority to three major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free
universal primary education. Priority is also to be given to energy develop-
ment, particularly through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of
natural gas.
16.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Yields and cropping intensities are well below potential
levels, fertilizer application rates are modest, and surface and groundwater
resources permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Where irrigation is available, the
increase in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice
and from dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The posi-
tive developments in Bangladesh agriculture over the past few years justify
some optimism concerning the ability of the country to achieve
self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future.
17.       The Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a
Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment
portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons
of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its achievement will depend
considerably on the allocation of sufficient resources to provide needed
inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to play an expanded role
in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs.
Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to finance
imported inputs, improved extension services and training, and appropriate
producer incentives.
18.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus



-6-
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
Bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
19.       The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age by
1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assisting
GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.
20.       A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation. 1/
21.       Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocation within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for Trade and
Industrial Policy Reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and
planning.
1/ A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the Bank's
1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971. In addition, as of January 31, 1982, 55 new credits have been
approved, totalling US$1,732.70 million; of these, US$765 million have been
for import credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports
credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disburse-
ments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (for shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a
leather factory) have been approved.
23.       The focus of IDA  assistance in recent years has been on agricul-
ture (18 of the 43 new projects approved since independence, and two fer-
tilizer imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and
the Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer production,
fertilizer transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and
storage facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also
being placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering
with the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example,
IDA plans to emphasize rural electrification and elimination of shortages
of generation capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major
impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
24.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, a
textile rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-scale industry projects
and three IFC loans.
25.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
26.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely



-8-
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that ircluded a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
27.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange costs
is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed in
certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, including
small-scale and cottage industries.
28.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
29.     Bangladesh, which has an area of 15 million ha of predominantly
fertile deltaic soil and ample groundwater, is well endowed with agricultural
resources. Agriculture dominates economic activity employing about
three-fourths of the work force and directly accounting for about half of GDP
and over three-fourths of exports. Because of high population density (about
620 per sq km) and small size farms (49% less than 1 ha), agriculture is
subsistence oriented. Food crops predominate with rice covering over
three-fourths of the 13 million ha cropped area, and total crop production
contributes about three-fourths of agricultural GDP.
Foodgrain Production: Trends, Constraints and Prospects
30.     Status and Trend:  Agricultural production grew very slowly in the
1950s and 1960s with rice production growing at only 0.7% and 2.5% per annum
respectively. This was far out-stripped by population growth of about 3% per
annum. In the early 1970s production received a further setback due to the
unsettled political situation. As a result, Bangladesh has been a major
importer, with food imports averaging about 1.8 million tons annually. Since



-9-
1975, with improved utilization of surface and groundwater irrigation, fer-
tilizer and improved seeds, production has increased at an average rate of
3.5% per annum.
31.     Constraints:  Most arable land area in Bangladesh has already been
exploited. Future foodgrain production increases would have to come through
increases in cropping intensity and crop yields. The main constraints limit-
ing agricultural productivity are:
(a) Environmental Characteristics: The rainfall pattern is very
skewed. It causes severe floods followed by a long dry season.
In addition, the year round warm weather helps breed pests.
(b) Shortage of Inputs: Prior to 1980, inputs such as fertilizer,
pesticides, wheat seed, some varieties of rice seed, and credit
were in short supply. Recently the supply position has
improved.
(c) Socio-economic Characteristics: Bangladesh has a very high
population/land ratio with a skewed land distribution with
absentee landlords and unfavourable tenancy arrangements.
This reduces investment incentives.
(d) Organizational Deficiencies: Inefficient agricultural
research and extension services have also retarded growth
in agricultural productivity.
32.     Prospects:  There is ample scope for growth in foodgrain production
through resolution of many of the above constraints. With IDA assistance the
Government has evolved a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
places major emphasis on the rapid expansion of small and medium scale
irrigation backed by rapid increases and improvements in the supply of key
inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, improved seeds, and diesel and elec-
tric energy. To handle the increased volume of inputs effectively and
without overburdening the budget, the Government has embarked on a program to
increase private sector participation in distribution and to decrease price
subsidies. For efficient utilization of these inputs the Government is also
taking steps to strengthen agricultural extension and research.
The Agricultural Research System
33.     Bangladesh has an extensive agricultural research system with many
specialized research institutes. Seven different institutes cover rice,
jute, sugar, forestry, fishery, tea and livestock. Other crops are covered
by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI). In addition
agricultural research is also carried out by agricultural colleges and the



-10-
Institute of Nuclear Agriculture. The large number of institutions involved
in research has necessitated formation of the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council (BARC) for coordination of research activities. The
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) is improving agricultural research
by strengthening BARI and BARC. Research performance has been mixed. The
main problems and constraints are:
(a) Neglect of Regional Adaptive Research:l/ While research
agencies have devoted substantial efforts to varietal
development and testing, they have neglected regional
adaptive and farming systems research.
(b) Fragmentation: The large number of research institutions have
sometimes led to duplication of facilities and research effort.
About 52 research stations of various kinds are operated
independently by the numerous research institutions.
(c) Quality of Manpower Training: Many of the research workers
lack post-graduate training which adversely affects the quality
of their research work.
The Agricultural Extension System
34.     Agricultural extension in Bangladesh has a long historv with the
establishment of the Directorate of Agriculture in 1906, now the Directorate
of Agriculture Extension and Management (DEM). Later, numerous other exten-
sion agencies were started in support of special thrust program. Within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF), agencies with extension functions
include the Plant Protection Directorate (PPD), the Directorate of Agricul-
ture-Jute Production (DAJ), the Tobacco Development Board (TDB), the Hor-
ticulture Development Board (HDB) and the Cotton Development Board. Outside
the Ministry, the Water Development Board (WDB), the Tea Board, the Sugar and
Food Industries Corporation, and the Directorate of Livestock also have field
staff, which along with input supply and output marketing, also give techni-
cal advice. Among these, DEM with about 5,200 village level extension agents
(EA) and DAJ with about 2,500 EA are the two largest agricultural extension
oriented agencies. Together the two agencies account for about 75% of
agricultural extension manpower. Agricultural extension in Bangladesh has
not been very effective due to many problems and constraints. These include:
1/ Adaptive research in this context refers to the final testing of tech-
nological packages developed on research stations, in farmers' fields.



-11-
(a) Multiplicity of Extension Agencies: Many agencies have focused
on nonfood crops (7% of cropped area) which has diverted a
disproportionate share (40%) of their scarce trained manpower
resources thereby reducing the effectiveness of extension for
the major food crops such as rice and wheat (82% of cropped
area).
(b) Training of Extension Staff: Staff training has been so poor
that often EA have very little to teach farmers. This has
affected EA self-confidence, morale and interest in their job.
(c) Multiple Responsibility: EA have been given a multiplicity of
non-extension related tasks which have often claimed the
major portion of their attention and time, while extension
activities have suffered.
(d) Supervision: Travel allowance rates have not been revised since
1974. Inadequate travel allowance has reduced staff incentive
and ability to travel. In many cases, EA have been limiting
their contact to the larger farmer. The inadequate travel
allowance has, in turn, reduced supervision of EA and thus
redued the effectiveness of the extension effort.
(e) Training of Farmers: Even though the vast majority of farmers
in Bangladesh are illiterate, quite often agricultural training
of farmers has not been in farmers' fields but in classrooms,
in thana centers, and the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI)
using blackboard and flip charts. Such techniques have failed
to influence the vast majority of farmers. Also, in many cases,
the research message being conveyed has not been appropriate
due to ineffective linkages between research and extension and
the lag in development of the agricultural research program.
35.     Future Prospects and Strategy:  With the stress in the MTFPP on input
supply projects through the private sector, input availability should improve
and the input allocative function of goverment extension organizations would
become less important. With better input availability, input utilization
would be more demand constrained than supply constrained, and the role of
agricultural extension in creating the demand through farmer training and
demonstration would have to be stressed. With the MTFPP emphasis on reaching
foodgrain self-sufficiency and the fact that 82% of the cultivated area is
devoted to rice and wheat, a reallocation of extension manpower in favor of
foodgrain crops also appears necessary. In view of this, GOB wishes to merge
most of the field staff of five specialized agricultural agencies in the
first phase of agricultural extension reorganization to be implemented during
the proposed project implementation period (FY83-87).



-12-
36.     The First Extension and Research Project:  The IDA financed Extension
and Research (EAR) I Project represented the first substantial effort to
address some of the basic problems of agricultural extension in Bangladesh.
The project, located in the five districts of the north-west region, has
introduced regular fortnightly training of EA's, improved mobility and super-
vision of extension staff, and has also improved extension and research
coordination. In the four years since the project started in 1978, wheat
production in the project area showed the biggest increase recorded by any
region in Bangladesh. The project area has also shown the best record of any
region in the growth rate of fertilizer consumption. However, it is dif-
ficult to judge the success of the project by these statistics alone because
of other influence such as weather (severe drought in the project area in
1979/80) and complementary investments in irrigation and infrastructure.
Even so, during field visits farmers have confirmed that they have benefited
from advice by EA on methods of wheat seed storage, and fertilizer and pes-
ticide usage. While the farmers in the project area appear to have
benefited, a number of problems were experienced during project implementa-
tion. These relate to shortage of trained manpower, construction delays,
travel allowance, contact farmer selection, research and extension linkages,
and EA training. The intensity of farm family coverage was 1,600 per EA
until FY80 and reached 1,300 farm families per EA in FY81 but this ratio is
still too high. Construction of the new ATI has helped to solve manpower
problems. Contact farmers selection and research/extension linkages have
improved and construction problems, such as shortage of cement and funds,
have been overcome. Location of EA training will be based at the thana level
to reduce travel problems; GOB has also recently introduced a supplemental
fuel allocation for extension staff. Under the first project, the merger and
reorganization of extension agencies under MAF as well as WDB were to have
been completed. Because of institutional difficulties, only the plans for
the merger were completed and the necessary government order issued. The
proposed second project establishes a revised schedule for the merger (para
54).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The project would support the MTFPP objective of achieving
self-sufficiency in foodgrain. In line with MTFPP strategy, the project
would put major emphasis on extension effort in irrigated areas and
associated adaptive research. The proposed project was appraised by a mis-
sion which visited Bangladesh in June-July 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 3654-BD, dated February 2, 1982) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Washington, D.C. in January, 1982; the
Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr. A. Obaidullah Khan, Secretary, MAF.



-13-
Project Objectives
38.     The project would seek to achieve the following objectives:
(a) improving agricultural extension effectiveness by merging and reor-
ganizing the five existing extension agencies within MAF;
(b) intensifying extension work in 15 of the 21 agricultural districts
in Bangladesh (including the 5 districts under EAR I) by providing
about 2,270 additional EA, upgrading about 200 EA as extension
officers, and by hiring an additional 60 extension officers;
(c) providing specialized training to extension and research officers;
(d) improving extension and research staff mobility by providing
bicycles, motorcycles and other vehicles;
(e) improving extension offices through new construction and by
rehabilitating 750 abandoned seed stores as two unit hous-
ing-cum-offices for 1,500 EA;
(f) improving research facilities by expanding a BARI coconut research
station into a regional station and by minor upgrading of eight other
stations;
(g) improving adaptive research by reorganizing BARI regional research
and by providing research grants through BARC; and
(h) providing 21 man-years of technical assistance for training in the
training and visit (T&V) system, improving research and extension
coordination, assisting with reorganization, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Extension Methodology
39.     The proposed project would reorganize agricultural extension services
in Bangladesh and would intensify extension work in 15 agricultural dis-
tricts. The project would systematically and regularly provide farmers with
up-to-date advice on farm practices best suited to their specific conditions.
Each EA will have an assigned territory or block consisting of about
600-1,200 farm families. Each block will be subdivided into 8 groups of
about 75-150 farm families. In each group the EA will have 10 contact
farmers. Contact farmers would be visited and advised by an EA at regular
fortnightly intervals. The EA would be trained once each fortnight by thana
level extension and additional extension officers (TEO, ADEO) assisted by
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) from the District office. The thana offices
would report to the district offices headed by an Assistant Director of



-14-
Agriculture (ADA). The 21 district offices would report to a central office
of field services in Dacca, headed by a Director of Agriculture, under a
Director-General for Agricultural Services. The extension methodology,
including strengthening linkages between research and extension, would be
incorporated in an extension manual. An extension manual agreed upon with
the Association would be issued not later than June 30, 1982 and thereafter
extension work would be carried out in accordance with the manual (Section
3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement)
Incremental Extension Staff Requirements
40.     The project would increase the intensity of extension work from the
current level of 1 EA per 1,600 farm families to an average of about 1 EA per
950 farm families (600 farm families in irrigated areas and 1,200 farm
families elsewhere) by FY87. However, the incremental staff requirements
would be minimized by the merger of five extension agencies. Only about
2,530 additional staff would be required which can be met by ATI and univer-
sity graduates. To ensure that the required extension staff would be avail-
able to the newly established Department of Agriculture Extension (para. 54
below), the agriculture extension service of the WDB would be merged into DAE
by June 30, 1983 and, in the meantime, the existing staff of the WDB would
not be increased (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Training of Extension Staff
41.     The lack of regular in-service training has been identified as an
important deficiency of the existing agricultural extension agencies. This
would be overcome by extended training under the project. The project would
provide improved facilities for 3 months training of about 793 specialized
extension officers at research stations of BRRI and BARI. The other exten-
sion officers (mainly TEO and ADA) would be provided with one month training
in management and supervision techniques by the T&V extension experts
provided under the technical assistance component (para. 47 below). Annual
refresher pre-seasons workshops would also be held. Subject matter training
for about six months each would be provided overseas to about 65 selected
extension officers who wish to specialize as SMS. About 80 selected exten-
sion staff would be sent on short study tours to neighboring countries where
the T&V system is operational. The selection of staff would be based on
performance. A detailed training program would be prepared and furnished to
the Association no later than September 30, 1982, including, inter alia, the
criteria for selection of candidates for training abroad (Section 3.06 of the
draft Credit Agreement).



-15-
Extension Staff Mobility
42.     Poor mobility of extension field staff has reduced EA contacts with
farmers and reduced supervision and training of EA by extension officers.
The project would provide about 5,400 bicycles for EA, 470 motorcycles for
extension officers and 23 other vehicles including two pickups for irrigation
agronomists and three four-wheel drives. The bicycles and motorcycles would
be provided to staff on a hire-purchase basis. Credit for the purchase of
motorcycles or bicycles would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). Other incen-
tives, including appropriate travelling allowances, as required to encourage
optimum use of the motorcycles would also be made available to all eligible
staff (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Extension Civil Works
43.     Because of the inadequacies of some district and thana extension
office facilities, 3 district and 30 thana offices would be constructed. The
project would also help to complete the construction of extension head-
quarters. EA housing is inadequate and prevents some EA from living in the
villages where they are posted. The project would rehabilitate about 750
dilapidated and abandoned seed stores into two unit house-cum-offices for
1,500 selected extension agents who are unable to obtain satisfactory accom-
modation at present. To ensure field staff assigned to work under the
project live in or near the areas assigned for their operations, adequate
housing or rental allowances and offices would be provided (Section 4.04 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
Research Station Development
44.     The existing Palm Research Station at Rahmatpur serves the horticul-
tural research needs of the Barisal area--one of the most important areas for
horticulture in Bangladesh. The facilities at the station would be developed
into a regional station with a special emphasis on tree crops. The regional
research stations at Jessore, Jamalpur, Ishurdi and Hathazari and the
sub-stations at Bogra, Thakurgaon, Rangpur and Rajshahi (see Map) are already
receiving IDA support. Some additional civil works and research station
development required to make these stations fully effective would be
provided. The established pattern of research stations in Bangladesh
includes many small mono-crop, poorly equipped, stations that are often
poorly located, ineffective, inefficient and costly. The latest review of
research by an international team recommended a thorough assessment of the
agricultural research stations. The Government would promptly carry out an
assessment of its research stations with a view to determining the optimal
number and location of existing stations and furnish to the Association its
findings no later than December 31, 1982 (Section 3.08(a) of the draft Credit
Agreement). No new agricultural research stations would be constructed until



-16-
the completion of the assessment (except for stations which the Gov rnment
has already undertaken to construct pursuant to agreements with other exter-
nal financing agencies) (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Adaptive Research
45.     The project would integrate all regional research in BARI under a
Farming Systems Research Division and would support research at eight new
farming systems sites. The research would identify constraints to production
increases in farmers' fields and would mobilize research resources to tackle
farmer oriented problems. Improved practices would be evaluated on farmers'
fields before release through the extension service. The staff will also
assist in training extension staff and would be provided with vehicles for
travel to farmers' fields. Support would also be provided for special adap-
tive research projects including research on water management and problems of
irrigated agriculture at three sites on farmers' fields.
Research Staff Training
46.     The project would support a program of foreign training initiated
under the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 828-BD) and provide 70 man-years
of PhD and MSc level training. Short five month courses in cropping systems
at IRRI would also be provided for about 18 staff.
Technical Assistance
47.     The project would provide about 21 man-years of technical assistance
at about IIS$10,000 per man-month to cover the full cost of consultant serv-
ices including travel and overhead expenses. The consultants will help with
the introduction and consolidation of T&V in the project area and to help
improve research and extension coordination in Dacca and Khulna Divisions.
Short-term concultancies would be provided to help with the reorganization of
extension services, strengthening of support services, and monitoring and
evaluation. To assist in monitoring and evaluation, Government would employ
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions are satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement). The Association would be consulted on the terms and
conditions of employment of the consultants employed for the project under
UNDP financing (para. 49 below) (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment).
Project Cost
48.     Total project costs have been estimated at about US$41 million
including duties and taxes of US$3.8 million, and a foreign exchange com-
ponent of about US$12.9 million. The base costs are expressed in December
1981 prices. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% for civil works and
5% for other costs. Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated
on the basis of the following annual domestic inflation rates; Ca) civil
works 15% in 1982, 12% thereafter and (b) other local costs 10%. Price



-17-
contingencies for foreign costs for the mix of goods and services procured
under the proposed pi3ject have been calculated using the following estimates
for inflation for 1982, 1983 and 1984 onwards: 8.5%, 8.0% and 7.5%.
Proposed Financing
49.     The proposed IDA credit of US$27.0 million equivalent would finance
73% of the total project cost, net of duties and taxes. UNDP would finance
the technical assistance component with a grant of UJS$3.0 million for which
FAO would act as the executing agency. A condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit would be that the UNDP Project Document has been signed
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
50.     Project civil works (US$9.6 million) would consist mainly of small
housing rehabilitation scattered at about 800 sites throughout the country.
These would not interest foreign bidders, and would be procured by local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
Suitable local construction firms exist in sufficient numbers to ensure
adequate competition. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.1 million) will be sold
to about 6,000 government employees on hire-purchase. These will be procured
consistent with the preferences of the staff to whom such motorcycles and
bicycles are to be provided. Procurement will be on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Other vehicles and equipment (US$0.8 million) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB). Small items valued at less than
US$10,000 may be purchased following prudent shopping procedures; these would
not exceed US$0.3 million in aggregate. Incremental operating costs (US$11.5
million) would consist of staff salaries, allowances and equipment operating
costs. Technical assistance specialists and services would be obtained under
a UNDP grant and under the proposed credit (2.6 million). Research grants
(US$0.9 million) to qualified institutions would be made using criteria
similar to those agreed under the IDA assisted Agricultural Research Project.
The remaining costs (US$1.8 million) are for foreign training and local
training allowances.-
Disbursement
51.     Disbursements under the credit would extend over six years and would
be made as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures on equipment and
vehicles.
(b) 85% of expenditures on civil works.
(c) 100% of monitoring and evaluation consultancy costs.
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures on training.



-18-
(e)  100% of research grants for approved sub-projects.
(f) US$500 per annum per extension agent in the project area above a base
figure of 4,500 extension agents in FY83, and 5,700 thereafter, up to
a maximum of about 8,060.
(g) US$1,500 per annum per thana-level extension officer in the project
area above a base figure of 980, up to a maximum of about 1,640.
Disbursement requests for categories (a) through (d) would be fully docu-
mented. Disbursements for research grants would be on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure for which BARC would retain supporting documents.
Field records would include statements of funds released, and semi-annual
expenditure statements with supporting documents from the institute executing
the sub-project. BARC-s audit wing has been strengthened for this purpose
under the IDA supported Agricultural Research Project. Disbursement requests
for categories (f) and (g) would be submitted quarterly and would be accom-
panied by a statement of staff strength for EA and ADEO positions in each of
the 15 project districts.   The statements of expenditures would be certified
by the Secretary or an Additional Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests. The relevant supporting documentation would be retained by the
implementing agency and made available for inspection by IDA staff on
request.
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
52.     Approval by Government authorities of the Project Proformas would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Credit
Agreement). PIW, BARC, BARI and BRRI would maintain separate project
accounts and the unaudited project accounts would be submitted to IDA within
three months of the end of each fiscal year; and the audited statements along
with the opinion of the independent auditor acceptable to the Association
would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. Because DAE is a new organization, it is possible that ini-
tially, the merger will create some disruption in accounting functions.
Therefore, unaudited DAE accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year and the audited accounts within nine months of
the end of the fiscal year (Section 4.02(a) and (b) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
53.     Government release of funds and payment procedures are lengthy,
especially for ministries such as MAF. Consequent delays in payments have
caused hardship to the local civil works contractors who have on many occa-
sions been forced to slow down construction because of slow payments from
Government. In the past, use of a revolving fund has provided useful relief
from such problems for agencies which know how to handle such a fund. PIW
has made good use of such funds. A condition of effectiveness would be that
the Government would open an account for the revolving fund (Section 6.01(d)



-19-
of the draft Credit Agreement). A revolving fund account would be estab-
lished in a commercial bank, with an initial deposit of Tk 2 million made by
September 15, 1982, which would be replenished as and when needed at the
request of the Director of PIW and maintained at a level at last equal to Tk
2 million (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). The adequacy of
the revolving fund arrangements would be reviewed jointly by the Government
and IDA in the fourth calendar quarter of 1983 in order to determine the need
for continuing the fund and, if it is to be maintained, the appropriate
funding level required (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement)
Project Implementation and Coordination
54.     The Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE):  would be the main
project implementation agency and would be responsible for handling all
extension work under the project (80% of project costs). GOB has decided
through a Presidential Order that DAE be formed by a merger of the extension
functions of five agencies of MAF. The merger of the extension services of
DEM, PPD, HDB and TDB would be completed by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.03(b) of
the draft Credit Agreement). DAJ merger would take slightly longer because
DAJ currently has many non-extension oriented functions which are receiving
IDA support through the Jute Project (Cr. 765-BD). It is expected that about
half of the staff would be maintained to carry out these functions. The DAJ
merger would be completed by June 30, 1983 (Section 3.03(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement). DAE would be headed by the newly created post of Direc-
tor-General. The post is currently vacant. Filling the position of Direc-
tor-General with an officer whose qualifications and experience are satisfac-
tory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 6.01(b)
and 3.03(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
55.     Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute (BARI):  BARI would be
responsible for adaptive research work with emphasis on wheat, horticulture
and cropping systems and would assist in extension staff training. The
adaptive research work would be handled by the newly created Farming Systems
Research Division (FSRD) formed by the merger of the On-Farm Trials Division
and the staff of regional research stations and sub-stations. The unified
line of command would improve coordination of BARI's regional research work.
FSRD would be headed by an Associate Director. The Associate Director, FSRD,
would be appointed by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.07(a) of the draft Credit
Agreement). Off-farm research in the regions is being carried out at 200
sites. However, with the new thrust on farming systems research it is
unlikely that it will be possible to maintain all 200 sites. By December 31,
1982 BARI would undertake an analysis of its off-farm research work with a
view to reducing the number of existing sites to a level which it can effi-
ciently manage and by December 31, 1982 and December 31 of each year there-
after furnish to the Association for comments its annual off-farm research
program (Sections 3.07(b) and (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).



-20-
56.     Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI):  BRRI would be responsible
for research on problems of irrigated rice cultivation at three sites in
farmers fields and extension staff training on rice cultivation practice.
BRRI organization is already well developed and would be able to handle these
tasks with its existing structure.
57.     Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council (BARC):  BARC would be
responsible for channeling research grant funds and for appraisal, monitoring
and valuation of sub-projects (3% of project costs). The procedures and
criteria for these have been established under the Agricultural Research
Project. BARC would carry out appraisal and evaluation through its committee
system.
58.     Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of MAF:  PIW would be responsible
for all project procurement and civil works construction needed for extension
staff and for research station civil works.
59.     Research/Extension Linkages:  For effective research and extension
work there would be a regular two way flow of information. The research
staff would inform extension about the latest proven area specific research
results. The extension staff would feed back farmers reaction to those
recommendations as well as other agricultural program for further research.
The exchange of information would occur through District Technical Commit-
tees. These would meet monthly and would consist of district level SMS and
research scientists. Since BRRI station network is not very well developed,
BRRI would organize roving teams of research scientists from its Central
Research Station. They would visit each District at least once a month to
exchange information with extension staff and farmers. Improvements in
research/extension linkages are included in the extension manual (paragraph
39 above).
60.     Implementation Schedule:  The Project would be implemented over a
five year period. Designs for most of the civil works (85%) are completed.
All civil works construction sites are already owned by the Government, and
site acquisition delays are not anticipated. Detailed site investigations
and preparation of tender documents for FY83 construction would be completed
by April 1982.
61.     Monitoring and Evaluation:  Each implementing agency will monitor its
own activity as a part of its management information system. The information
gathered through this system will be summarized by each implementing agency
on a quarterly basis and furnished to MAF for evaluation using sample survey
techniques.
62.     Benefits and Justification:  Strengthening the extension system under
the project will initially result in more efficient use of fertilizers,
substitution of local varieties of seed with improved high yielding
varieties; and more efficient cultivation practices. With the increase in



-21-
fertilizer use and better crop management, yields of improved varieties are
expected to increase in the project area by an average of about 4%. The
incremental proddction due to the project of about 0.44 million tons, will
produce Tk 700 million net farm revenue for project area farmers. These
benefits would be achieved by an increase in extension and research costs of
about Tk 60 million which is 0.5% of the annual national budget, or only Tk 8
per project area farm family. This can be accommodated within Government's
five year plan development expenditures.
63.     The economic rate of return for the project is about 44Z.  This
attractive rate of return is due to the project making better use of existing
investments in extension, research, irrigation and other infrastructure. The
returns are high in spite of the modest impact on project area foodgrain
production (4%) because of the low level of project cost. Because of the
high returns, the project is largely insensitive to increases in project cost
and delays in implementation.
Project Risk
64.     There are two major sources of project risk.  An institutional risk
stems from the merger of five extension agencies, which could create
implementation-delays. This risk has been minimized through a phased merger
in which only the main extension oriented agencies of MAF are merged. A
Government Order for the merger has already been issued. Substantial techni-
cal assistance would be provided to assist GOB with the merger and reor-
ganization, so that any disruptions are minimized. A financial risk stems
from GOB budgetary procedures which sometimes delay release of funds and
thereby delay project implementation. The project provides for the creation
of a revolving fund of Tk 2 million in order to minimize such constraints.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People s Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a) signing of the UNDP Project Document (paragraph 49); (b) approval of the
project proformas (paragraph 52); (c) opening of a revolving fund account
(paragraph 53); and (d) filling of the position of the Director-General of
DAE (paragraph 54).
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-22-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 10, 1982
Washington D.C.



- 23 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVfJAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1K.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            144. 0                              MOST RECENT        [OW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  30.0        50.0      90.0              232.3                   1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVAIENT)        ..        32.0/e    40.8             499.4                   1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0    68117.0  88934.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1          7.6      10.8               17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XM.                     371.5       473.0     617.6              153.6                    373.1
PER SQ. KK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9      702.2    888.6               360.3                   2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        46.3      43.5               37.4                     39.8
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0      53.9               59.2                     56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.7       2.6                3.5                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4      3.0                2.1                      2.3
URBAN                             3.6         6.3       6.8                3.4                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.2        47.6      43.5               27.7                     29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.5         19.9     15.7               10.2                      7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.1       2.8                2.5                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       8.9               20.4                     44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        106.0       101.0      88.0              107.1                    123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        85.0      91.0               98.6                    112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        43.0      58.5               56.9                     62.5
OF WHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE       9.0         9.0       9.0               14.2                     19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    24.9        23.5      18.7               14.6                      4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.6        44.9      48.8               57.7                     64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       153.0     130.0               89.1                     50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0      53.0               30.1                     45.9
URBAN                              ..        13.0      15.0               65.8                     68.0
RURAL                              ..        47.0      55.0               20.1                     34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       5.0               17.6                     53.4
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0               71.0                     71.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                4.8                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN             ,,      8427.2/c  8775.0             3857.7                   4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..    91872.9  56876.6               6411.8                   2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..      6610.0/d  4402.0             1132.8                    588.5
URBAN                              ..          ..    637.6               322.3                    579.6
RURAL                              ..          ..  23754.3              5600.5                   1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ''         5.9/e     5.9
URBAN                              ..         6.1e      6.1
RURAL                                           9 579e  5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               .           .        .
URBAN                               .         3.0/c
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 24 -
Psse 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      72.0                 85.9                     99.8
MALE                  66.0         68.0      103.0                94.4                     100.6
FEMALE                26.0         34.0       40.0                64.5                      98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      22.0                 38.0/aa                  53.5
MALE                  14.0         29.0       32.0                34.6/aa                   58.4
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                18.07/as                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 3.8                     21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         49.0      44.0                 32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6/f       23.0       26.0                52.8                      86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                  1.7                     ;2.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PUPULATION                            ..          6.0       6.0                 35.3                    174.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.4                  3.7                     50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       4.3                 14.6                    106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ,.         ..                 3.4                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6        23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.4                 29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9      74.0                 69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5      11.0                 14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7       35.3                39.7                     40.2
MALE                                  58.7         55.9      56.5                 51.5                     49.8
FEMALE                                11.4         11.9       12.7                23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.1                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/a         16.7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g        42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/           7.9/h     8.07i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9k          19.67.h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATEU ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0                134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     111.0                111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   ..                    249.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      86.0                41.7                      21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0                51.7                      32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /A 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
May, 1981



- 25 -
p.g. 0
0E10NITIO30 OR 90CIAL 0300 uTORS
Motes:  Although abs data ate frart  tro .. ...... gnarlly (udged abe se-            utoit          adroibl.it ehould also ha noted  ht  they asp rot be Ii.tr-
rotioaullycosprabla  b.c.e.   f the lath of  tandarfinod  deinition. and  -o-coop. d by dif..ltfeotroacaiesItb oisci    th. date.  The det-         .   rb
thele,  sfuL to  otiandr   feaiue  lndtc-f  treads, rod  bhr-toriar osriat  ra(cn di ffararto   eom    onre
TOhs oeeac    ruest  I   b              ocutry group of cs eublctcutay tad (2                   -.cutry group aftb  eoeohtre  bighbo  average ioot  the  .b..ur    ru
of thSujc   oorScno   o  'Cpolbuna   0   ootn ' groo  abte'iddlo  anoa  Nortb Atrlc   aed Piddl  tat' f.tohos-  boo.ue  of teraSr.
Wai-uorlfilctias(.  Ta the refereoa. rou  dot  chestergecar   pouaina-ha   -elthsat                                I.'afr  ah ditf.coto  rad eho.n eay  hb
aJritiy of rho oonaiae it  gnoop he  dt  for I the:Inicto                    ..f. the  -onargo of  -tuftioeeecng rho irdic.tor. depada onab  arilablitty of det
IADea AREA (thesom     q     (Po.einccbrpclBd-toa,jhr,ad tua-1                                                                                                      ooano    ttl
Agricultral   SEnlaiet of erclu              peco  nspoailc orpemtec                                 calbisIn publi  cod pniocto arnore  an  ori_adhoorf  n   e
for onpe. poturre,aarAn  and li-or   rdc   r  ol    oln 1"7Idie.                             ohiifaiocconen.   PsItoaeetphifeat   oennl tfe
by at la.s. on  phyafiait.  tE-bahleftont  pronid ing pnianips1fy  -ct-
lPERPCPITA10  (1ff) - 1G0 p-rt cpIta oat iroene        ..cron o-snkro.   lca  cii-                  dilcr   rr-Icodd                  uo  hoapifala  Oca"-rne, 'aIeIde heelth
colored by s1econeel toahd ee Ourla ;tltAtla  (10-79 bsele(; 1960,                                  rod  siarotcnt Perstatly  anofard,ho af                        p iea  (hunt hr a
0075, ad 1979 dt_.ad ical  ..e.ona_, onc. nidnlfe. rc 1  hIch  tf                                                                                                 _ iop Ietec
denier end pro-ide I li.ltcd rarg  of ndcltoiiio                   a      te
fIlOCt CONSUMPGTION PER CAPITA - AR..ue  cooptiun of   --srial ..angy (-oe                            nucol puny see urb.. boePielel  i-oludo  aI1apnnp         ./g .e. 1hospitals
sod lignite, peroeu, ntural ga  and hydro-. nulaIn' eohrc   lc d                                          rrlheepfnai4 loa1o,          ualhcypl  end  si-al and starlniY
tinity;  ahigaao   oleunlo   r  caia;19, 0Ped179                                                    srn.    Pipeilie   hoptalter  ioo1cdad only tndon totl.l
data.                                                                                             Adnfeei..c cl Oo-pirel red - T-co  nuaha  oflraiso    co   dincher...
fton hoapinslo diided by the  -b-he  ofhot
POPULOATTO 0AN0D VITAL STA1TITCS
Totld:  Porulanlo-. Mdd-Year (nc-eo  - iA. ofJly 1; 1960, 1970, end 1970                        rOif ING
dte.                                                                                          Aosraro Sire of Po-ebod  canonope  h-cabod)    cre, uban   ndara
inhan Poulstion  oracotn totnl) - Utcl  ofluboc nontlpouaio                                 Aihuahl  cnton  of aoo    fidinidudi  rho  bhr  liningqsar
differnt dofniron   of cb-a  Itea Iney afotceoetipo   oaad choir  oOn  -rate.  A boader or 1odg   asp 00 any no  ha included it
ang 1rnn.e   960, 1970,                                                                          h. 90deo  b  Ousod tn   tietico  pcrpoaae
Pouato  I   oo   00  - lrep po1cti-n ptojectOce urn heard,. on9f0                      b-nofpar.o.e par n-   in oil crier, and ral.          onpidconn1as
-cc1 populonico by ago sod sIop   rhain  -onnety end fratil,tyreta.                            Onolliogo, rap-ci-oly.  Wol1iigeocld-             orpannrnpntreed
taife rPac-ten      tanbit  incrcoog rich ....nr 'ay yp   e ,pita i onAocc   loni  t   precofdolas      oal.re.adPn 
s.tonifrltiitcy         rc  also. he- ontheelocale -  enuefoig drlitno in                      of nones  u-ht, rod rural dn.l mo  oeeniri
foni tyacodigtoioue  oe:edpetfool  ploanito  perfr-air..
tech  ..uotaY is char .atig.a  co   at  hasoufor cosinoti-ote f anrialy                    SD0C_AiTIOtNd
arI'd fonntlitynr-de  forl. cr.1 acion  _pupeI.                                              Auadttii-s   rto
S.saicasy PoPo12ti-a-IooItutlotr-y PoPu1otico  abort it oo gronhItnca                             Pafaro-shool -  ottl. soota   eel      ocatne              Isfaadfesolo.
the birth nato ie o.uoI cc tha d-oh rae,ed alto  tin  .g              . arciuro on-               eolsn u l  sgeo an tbn pofidaploY    00procgon of rson
eiiaoniun.Tis Ie achian-d anly otter Paroticyrte.d-cino Pu                                       plioany ochoag  co.       lnie....sll  includer childer:  age1df0-11
-h elceetlI) ofuItoa   rrdu-cion rsto, AR cniat  gaer   c                                rn tbut odjuatd for diffo.e.. lengahe1 ofpfet  ouano;  o
of amcaoae           _Inol   IIuly .  The.I etncur  popolnonionacutniooith c-oreloonconorllaro  say emee  10   orot
Ietionod o  the bacto of nhc proJar-d u ...oc.rIsn    oft         b   uclcinsic oteo pupils  n   nlr0  obon-                               t ho officil.  ohool ago.
in nit par  2000, sad the nero of_ dlin~ of f-tiluypr..snor-piler-                            Sacoodery echool - tonal, solo end Posit - C..ot'  en abort; secodary
ant lsnol.                                                               odu~~~~~~"cr"ic..qoi..a It sa  (cu  p Ir up eppood Prtaisy  instruction
coopotonunar occienio inno-tha   - Ths yar- h h ehtt i-oaly        uoinpoodagnrl.ccufnlo   rte   tlin  inan...  ion  fo  ppi
airsh. baa   ..eor....                                                                            ...ially of 12 cc 17 yeors of ota; ocrtepco.doccure  era   learofl
Pan au. AR.        P p         cot'  p   atouar  kilo ente  (155G hon-nr) of               Vatetionol- onoloo  (pon no  arioer)                 - ctionul inofi-into
o1tsl are; 1960, 1970 end 1979Idot.lcuarcno i                                                                           odcacia,on ohon p-ogam   ahich opertel indrpod-
P_ro. n   ancutra.c0-cacidusoclbnt roaf                          uutuoiaatt1oeeOputodeo  erdryiuocr_                                                   ine
orly; 160. 190 rod 170 dun.                                                             Pun1_trnho  run ic - pliII"on. ad s-ooday - Torol  tado.ttesnroiled OP
6rcaoo   s  Otoucuc  fo Iruc   -.,.d...  Childrnn  00-14 po-c).  ncogee(15-                          pafoyen  aondaploe. dicidId by combie of ntachore un tic
64yur)  an  retired (65 prear rodoon   Iecrcnonoo   id-poor PcP.-                              corePodiuglI.....
eno;1060, 1970  ..ad 1979 dta.                                                               Adult litereic nina (E-c.on     - itarto..dulp.  (oh rbI  to read ur~d int.)
Paculanionloaahroiefnarrrtl-aorr-AIuueltcoahraino.  coal-ald-                            aI.p.r....       gnfici-lodc-lcpcilouuead     y__aad                    _oer
Ytar Populaco- ton 1950-605, 1960-70 rod 1970-79.
PoultonSoath rate (porc..on)a-uin      - Au-ua1 groanh rote of urban Poyu-               CaOfPI
touoIco  1990,i 19605,   0 u I 1079 don.CONUMtlinn chnlo
Crude Deah1~(Itrat(e   hoce        --.  Ii-ue  doa   tha par  th-c-rod   of aid-corn             Radtc  nCeic  (par~ ohouand ocoolcO-01  tpto icit2                         o   oi
pplto;1960, 1970, no  i7  dana.                                                          bRoadiRI cost  no e aenralpulicpo  nbuadc  ppltc;                    ld
of hitc-contrl denics-unde  suepbce  of  -utiunalfeni_  plnin    ognn                       onnlpu)cIntbuaa -.   .ltpopoltiho;. ot.ic             I . Ioionsd .T cocoln
Pamio Pnocog   care onronnof  trid acocO- Prrotag  ofrarindOr  nuanin  andinIour niaN Pniocotoc.f...nnoP.
rooco   hid1      rnn   eo(5c  paatb   onbrhcnto    aincoOorPrCiolptr-otnosndcplron       hn   bocrgcr
01F   ernd   usn  n  nTVae   Roc.cclno   f'diygnraivcrtross'.  oir   naproio
P'I'D  I                                                                   ....  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pulioi.n d.o.... afp  cccndn    rrlnn.   ti   onioo
prod i_cion of  dOlifot-sdiit   Prducicroldr   ee  o.dfed  n                                               Iito ad   drig   i  yan,rn..d.g   daenon    f.c drior-lo t cina
is on colendoc  (r -' .a.. t- Coso irercoc . pltoy   uoo   rn   atacun1n  pbil   Ice.                                 .d-...-j
lnataedofecaoo(ahochareodlifreedrcototn  ounnitoco  dloacoffNaruIod1                                                                                     ft
treer   ooldd.cneerrcutroncounyihednLRtO
Pr   d        itaecl   fclois(orn   foofaooc       optdfo                                   trardfonce endunemloye  ic   ncoin    oeoioe   tdot.   t.
pan  ay.Anaiohr appoon  oupato  osoconproorcco,ispono  totnotcoooneie;lOt, 170anj 00  dato.digg..-    _                            I           d..d
ropoan, end  hengroin mok.  Netacppliaeocldo  ooal  od  ree p-no  rrc b                         i       'eao  ei ifon-co atpron eo  totallehr fce..
qun   nr   odi   od  ocaig   n   oaeOcdnrhno.tqia                                       taiclar   Iponant    t- Labo  -oc   -ofnig oono,baiu   n
anef nn   ctcoco   y  ushor  on-hytolooca  t.trd  icrdnfrsd rrnd                              toaingok      paotet       fcoe ..Idr foce;  960  1970 an-179da
nicyandtreth   ooafnniC rrlditctol ...opnror,hd   rta,oa                               nopy(ron)-Ino                  fc naOg   onnuco,suetn
tdcoboidlava;9191-is  107.1co7097ddat              .            .                  Tt1977b and197  dto.E. I1Y.-P---    -                                       .
ret euppy 0f foo  p00 dry   Nan tnplp cc fod 00 d -lnroroohoco. to              oniiorta_rcopuo    atcne,eor  udfsl   abrfuna
Ocl   od thacop; 19105   97 o tc    1907 dato.to ltO   coccI  1o9or for1crd.                                                                                 -,   .  .
"'ihabdtaydtiiad CoosOtio calre; 107, 197  and 19970utad of9bocedoida
i,ibL- 'f   -  -0010..0il105000- -O-EOPS 
hiferoohtaodvI   unclroo(    oroncooo   fua  flfrnotc0Thfl Pnndoietornry-poiacoeere   f0bc;loo
opbith   100    1970 and   1~~:11979 9ace                                                  ond-ohoc   -ricecradro  ccuorhrScfr
of oat po   'Io'od  Plon hirthof   '-p .                                                    conuc  ovrttOpo   0-nit  hnOuccirl  so   uA                                 ta
acces cc  afe ltin  rencoo ofcorlabciont-y  SD coral, fpbeo an  Jur-  tal-nuciioolpdno t die   c    aranle  con-foo   reufasno       c
her ofpoopi  (tota, coba, eo  Plita)) a   dtO  -de.....ii-recoreoco  totep offofrdoila
of-.    chif rpclrpplcoa    ocnoee        ulcrce  incoeh  or nba contry..cohen-lonn  tLo dncd                                                             nth   ue
c_adrredi  W hIngncln roh ocnf hroccSt      o f   te1-irdOnoaaca                                irool _ichajoat   o  bcr   ouo   iin    oubne
iccrscc nuotre csooal Inac6 ti f7                                                                     D-orulat-totitoooPdPun--od rod renald -
tan iuetalleicoct.                                                                                                                            rap 1901l d 1 -5    p7  .d  97  dt. Ts  MBL1O
Chnuldco  a        Pisiin    Pp laton        .. iidod  ty -nnha  dOpacci in hyan-dD
cianvo"Ifnadfroosca thid - actchootrooicertiplace).                    . .i,-                  P...~-h ~-   -1   -d       -idb   ih
dladfn lirrodusft rorsof. b. crciaoceaod  o79A_s--et0o-nonordo--40a-.



-26-
Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:           92.9 million (January 1981)
GNP Per Capita:       US$120 (FY80)
Amount          Average Annual Increase (X)        Share of GDP at Market Pric-. (Z)
(million US$        (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
Indicator                                      in current prices)
FY80           FY60-70   FY7O-75   FY75-80        FY60       FY70       FY75       FY8O
NATIONAL ACCOUlNTS
Gross domestic product /a                             11,346            4.0      -0.6        5.7        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture /a                                      6.085            3.1      -1.3        3.6         59.9       56.9       62.5       53.6
Industry /a                                         1,383            7.9      -3.2        5.9          7.7        9.6       11.3       12.2
Services 7Ta                                        3,877            4.9       3.3        9.0         30.1       30.0       26.2       34.2
Consumption                                           11,466            4.4      -0.7        5.2         92.4       92.8      100.0      101.1
Gross investment                                       1,660            10.9    -10.9       13.5          6.9        11.3        7.0      14.6
Exports of goods & nfs                                   820            0.8    -11.7         4.0         [0.0        8.3        3.1        7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                                 2,600            8.8    -12.0         5.3          9.3       12.5       10.1       22.9
Gross national savings                                    36           26.5    -17.7        -8.4          0.9        6.1        0.6        0.3
Amount                                             Composition of Merchandise Trade (S)
(million US$                                                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY80                                             FY73       FY75       FY79       FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  719.2                                              100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Primary                                           198.0                                               40.6       34.2       35.7       32.1
Manufactures                                      521.2                                               59.4       65.8       64.3       67.9
Merchandise imports                                2,352.0                                              100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                             691.0                                                44.1       41.5       16.1       29.4
Petroleum                                         390.0                                                3.2       11.1       11.5       16.6
Machinery & equipment                            491.0                                                13.8        9.6       25.0       20.9
Other                                             780.0                                               38.9       37.8       47.4       33.1
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                                           140.6      240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      254.4
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                                 7.9661    8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4779
Export price index                                                     104.4      126.0      108.3      118.7      129.6      165.6      2u7.1
Import price index                                                     153.0      186.5      179.4      173.7      172.7      205.5      241.5
Terms of trade index                                                    68.2       67.6       60.4       68.3       75.0       80.6       85.8
As 2 GDP
(at current prices)
FY73      FY75       FY77       FY80
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                                   5.0        5.4        9.5        10.4
Current expenditure                                                               6.5        4.5        7.8         7.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                       -1.5       +0.9       +1.7        +2.8
Capital expenditure                                                               8.8        3.1        9.5        13.3
Foreign financing                                                                 7.1        2.4        6.0         8.2
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                                                     4.2      -0.7          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate(%)                                                           1.5      -3.3          3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
/a At market prices.
n- ot available
not applicable
ASADD
Jul) 15. 1981



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF' PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
Actual                                              Est.             Pro,jected
FY74       FY75         FY76       FY77        FY78         FY79         FY80          FY81          FY82        FY83
BAL4NCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                           -573      -1,031       -  901       -426      -  870       -  947       -1,640        -1,859        -1,920      -2,180
Exports of good. & services                             403          453          454        514         559          690          809           833           980       1,120
Imports of goods & services                            -976       -1,484      -1,355       -940       -1,429       -1,637      -2,449        -2,692        -2,900       -3,300
Net transfers                                               19           34           62        81          113          140         163           219           262          320
Current account balance                                   -554        -997         -839       -345        -757         -807       -1,477        -1,640       -1,658       -1,860
Direct private investment                                   ..           ..           ..        ..           ..                       20            25            30           40
MLT loans (net)                                            276          498         498        238          398         420          581           659           750          850
Grants & grant-like flows                                  169          383         243        253          386         555          601           700           750          800
Other capital flows (net)                                   51          267           45       -65          -52         -44          133           236            97          220
Change in reserves (- = increase)                           58        -151            53       -81           25        -124          142            20            31          -50
International reserves (end of period)                     115          266         213        294          269         393          251           231           200          250
Reserves as months of imports of next year                0.93         2.36        2.72       2.47         1.97        1.93         1.12          0.96          0.73         0.83
Actual
FY74       FY75         FY76        FY77        FY78         FY79         FY80
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                          168.6       383.1       243.5       252.7       385.7        555.2        600.1
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                        287.4        518.9       563.5       268.3       435.3        476.8        631.4
oncessional                                             201.4        458.4       533.0      244.1        400.8        456.4        601.6
Bilateral                                             150.4        342.8       389.9      144.0        261.9        212.6       272.7
IDA                                                    51.0        112.5       127.8       86.1         88.2        152.5       152.1
Other multilateral                                        -          3.1        15.3       14.1         50.7         91.3       176.9
Non-concessional                                          86.0         60.4       30.4        24.1        34.5         20.4         29.8
Official export credits                                40.6         45.2        16.5        5.6          1.7          3.3         16.8
IBRD                                                     -            -           -          -            -            -            -
Other multilateral                                      5.4          0.3         1.1        0.5          0.5          0.1          0.3
Private                                                40.0         14.9        12.8       18.0         32.3         17.0         12.7
EXTEENAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed  (end of period)   492.8            1,352.6    1,795.9    2,051.5       2,569.2      2,949.2      3,215.6
Official                                              383.3      1,232.8    1,689.0    1,939.8       2,435.6     2,808.3      3,068.8
1BRD                                                   -          54.9       54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9
IDA                                                 105.6        255.3      379.8       465.9        554.2       706.7        858.8
Other                                               222.8        922.6    1,254.3    1,419.0      1,826.5      2,046.7      2,155.l
Private                                               109.5        119.8       106.9      111.6        133.6        140.9       146.8
Undisbursed Debt                                        580.8      1,019.4       947.5   1,015.8       1,335.4      1,659.1     1,716.7
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                               18.0         31.3       87.4        58.5        69.3         95.1         93.7
Interest                                                7.3         10.1        21.9       28.4         32.1         38.1        43.3
Payments as % exports                                      4.5          6.9       19.3        11.4        12.4         13.8         11.6
Payments as % GNP                                          0.2          0.2        1.2         0.9         0.8          1.0          0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                     3.2          2.0        1.7         1.6          1.5         1.4          1.4
Official                                                2.9          2.0         1.6         1.5         1.3          1.4          1.2
Private                                                 5.1          2.3         7.8        6.4          6.2          6.1          6.9
Average maturity of new loans (years)                     26.1        35.5        41.6       40.1         37.7         35.9         33.6
Official                                               28.3         35.8        42.2       40.8         38.6         36.3         34.2
Private                                                13.3         15.3        11.3       11.0          9.5         14.8         19.3
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                          -          4.0         3.0         2.6         2.1          1.8          1.7
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements                -            -          -           -            -           -            -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                        -            -         1.8         5.6         4.8          4.1          3.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                                         21.4        18.8        21.1        22.7        21.6         24.0         26.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements               17.7        21.7        22.7        32.1        20.3         32.0         24.0
IDA debt service/total debt service                        1.3          3.1        2.5         5.3         5.4          4.6          6.0
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY80
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                         12.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                        36.3
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                                         1.6
not available.
ASADD
July 15, 1981



28
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 19 credits fully disbursed                    54.90   639.75       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                      -       14.00     0.85
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                         -       21.00     1.39
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)           -       25.00     2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                      -       7.50      2.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II             -      20.00      7.04
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer               -      62.00      6.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                        -      15.00      4.22
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                -      27.00    14.86
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation              -       22.00     9.56
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00     4.99
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                 -       16.00     6.90
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank            -       25.00     5.85
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -       16.00     3.66
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                 -       21.00    13.71
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -       10.00     5.36
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00     2.82
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -       21.00    14.81
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -       25.00    20.82
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                      US$ million /a /b
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II          -        7.00    4.20
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research            -        6.00    3.48
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control       -       19.00   15.58
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III         -       10.00    6.98
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries            -        6.00    5.32
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training              -       25.00   22.39
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II -          32.00   29.84
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -      28.00   27.81
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -      22.00   14.96
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports               -       25.00    0.03
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -      25.00   24.02
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -       10.00    9.56
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -       50.00    7.47
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -       37.00   23.20
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II       -       20.00   19.61
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -      29.00   29.00
1032   1.980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -      20.00   19.61
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -       11.00   10.87
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -      25.00    1.87
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -      40.00   38.97
Total                                               54.90  1,451.25  443.35
of which has been repaid                              -        0.40    -
Total now outstanding                               54.90  1,450.85  443.35
Amount sold                            0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      54.90  1,450.85
Total undisbursed                                     -      443.35  443.35
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7W   See Part B for IDA Credits expressed in SDRs.



-30 _                        ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMEN1T OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit   Fiscal                                               Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Original  Undisbursed
1065     1981       Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III    26.7            26.7
1071     1981       Bangladesh   Imports Program IX             49.5         23.7
1091     1981       Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development   64.7            63.8
1096     1981       Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                    19.1         19.0
1117     1981       Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II   40.2            40.2
1124     1981       Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV        12.9         12.9
1140 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                 14.8         14.8
1147 2/  1981       Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit            32.6         32.6
Total                                                    260.50        233.7
of which has been repaid                                 0.00           -
Total now outstanding                                    260.50        233.7
Amount sold                                  0.00
Total now held by IDA (in SDR)                           260.50
Total Undisbursed                                                      233.7
I/   Not yet effective.
2/   Became effective in October.
3/
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                 -      1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20.   1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
3/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2     2.3



31
ANNEX II
Page 4
D.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids are
being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. Similar
progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency (SCA) com-
ponent. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component
remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract grower scheme
continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded appraisal
estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal targets
because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varie-
ties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommendations
for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training programme
currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to
permit completion of their FY81 work programs.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining
the number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original
project. Civil works in the original project area are completed. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about
30,000 acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints
continue to inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
They are, however, improving.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2. 5 years behind schedule
with about 50 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
WDB has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular
regard to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be sub-
stantially reduced and eliminated from the IDA Credit. Without embankment
construction, the project is expected to be completed in June 1983.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow use of project savings (about US$5 million)
on an expansion of existing components in the present project area.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a
10% increase over the appraisal estimates.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977;  Effective Date:  January 6, 1978;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Local fund allocation is also inadequate. A review mission
is now in the field to evaluate the project's progress.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
only now been taken up. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is satisfactory. The BARC headquarters
building has been completed and is occupied. Construction and farm develop-
ment at the three regional stations is progressing slowly. The BARC research
grant scheme is in operation and the consultants appointed to advise BARC on
procedures for financial planning and recording and for research monitoring
and evaluation have completed their work. A total of 31 students have been
sent abroad for PhD training.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. Orders have
also been placed on the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also
been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant has been appointed; his first visit
is scheduled for August/September 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (for-
merly Bangladesh Landset Programme) should undertake the 5 year Remote Sensing
Programme and a draft scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained
in February will be processed shortly; aerial photography will be completed at
the end of the year.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140  Hand Tubewells Project:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Closing Date;  March 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA has extended effectiveness
period and has established November 10, 1981 as later date. Progress towards
meeting conditions for effectiveness iB satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: USS40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit has become effective very recently.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, i985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit.  The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant mechanically
practically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea is expected to start around end 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$19.2 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$24.97 million.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about US$70,000 t urea
and 40,000 t TSP. The credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for
commitments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, US$42.53 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of September 30, 1981 US$23.13 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for commitments in the pipeline
will continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on January 15, 1981. As of July 15,
1981 US$1.2 million had been committed.



37
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071  Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of September 30, 1981 disbursements were about SDR 25.8 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This Credit became effective on August 12, 1981.  As of September 30,
1981 US$21.7 million had been committed.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 27, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980. It is estimated that about US$1.4
million will be cancelled during November 1981 as soon as payments of existing
commitments in the pipeline are made. Project costs (in dollar terms) are
close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. At credit closing
the technical education (polytechnics) component was completed in most respects
but the BAU continues with the construction of the auditorium, student hostels
and other non academic buildings. The government has committed itself to
the completion of this project from its own resources. Efforts to arrange
for architectural supervision financed under a T.A. credit are underway.
A Technical Education consultant is currently in the field assisting the
government to prepare a project completion report.
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training
institutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been
procured, although training programs are running at 75% of trainee capacity.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However,
the recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and
in developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist
the NCRT in performing its functions. These consultants have already produced
an interim report. Part I of the Agricultural Management Training Institute
courses, organized by Coverdale consultants for training staff has been
completed, and the program will continue to completion in March 1982.



38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project was declared effective on November 5, 1979. Short
courses of about six months duration have replaced longer programs at four
technical training centers, and will be offered at the five TTCs to be
constructed and equipped under the project. A team of ILO trade training
consultants is assisting project development, and a project related fellowship
program of overseas training is available to Government and industrial officers.
Additional staff have been appointed to manage project implementation, though
some delays are occurring in reaching agreed staffing levels. Efforts are
also being made to increase recruitment and improve retention of skilled
instructors, which is essential to project success.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), i.e. staff training, base-line evaluation,
materials production (textbook, girls uniforms) and distribution and the
formation of school Management Committees are underway and progressing
steadily. Delays in two areas, evaluation and physical construction, have
been identified. The remedial steps introduced by GOB and UNESCO (evaluation)
will, however, minimize the delays.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  September 25, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. The only
major problem delaying project completion, in respect of which the original
Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981, is the slow
implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project.
Although 6 of the 21 facilities are now fully completed and 7 more are
expected to be completed between July-September, 1981, a second extension
of the Closing Date may be needed to permit full project completion and full
disbursement of credit proceeds.



39
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Except for the first tranche (1979/80) of the Family Welfare
Centers' component, project execution effectively commenced only in July,
1980 and, in relation to the original four year implementation period, is
currently about one year behind schedule. While the impact of this delay
on two parts of the project (Information, Education and Motivation (IE1t)
and Research and Evaluation) is not significant except in terms of credit
disbursements, the civil works components of the service delivery and
training parts of the project are experiencing problems owing not only to
delayed implementation but also to proposed budget cuts, revised building
design standards, and domestic and international price inflation. Solutions
to these problems are currently being discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and bid documents for telecommunications
equipment are ready and awaiting clearance by TTB. Lists of spare parts
for BIWTC cargo vessel have been prepared and most items have been ordered.
Consultants appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling
of BIWTC and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their
reports. Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies
is in progress. At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1982.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project has been delayed as a result of the
Borrower's failure to make timely recommendations for award of construction
contracts. Since these contracts were scheduled to commence early October
1980, at the beginning of the construction season, the project has been
delayed by about two years and completion by the anticipated completion
date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion by the Credit Closing
Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on much improved Borrower
performance and avoidance of further unnecessary delays.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on July 24, 1981. Contract for trial
dredging at Chittagong for which retroactive financing has been approved,
has been under execution since April 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organizing
its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development. TTB
funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government account.
This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to
which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved a level of
financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development program within
the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on commercial accounts
is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be prepared from FY82/83
onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Cove-
nants under the project are now being complied with. TTB has recently taken
final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under the project.
Works related to last procurement will be completed by June 1983. Adequate
actions as would be required to further improve TTB's management, operations
and development capability, will be considered under the proposed third tele-
communications project.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have virtually completed design
and it is expected that procurement will be completed by end 1981. Physical
progress is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow start-
up and sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems
and shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is now in place and design is now progressing satisfactorily. Selection of
a second consultant for a sewerage/sanitation study is now in progress. An
expatriate financial adviser has taken post and is proving effective. Pro-
curement has started but implementation will be about 1 1/2 years behind
schedule.



ANNEX III
- 43 -                               Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
one year
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
MAF, FAO/CP and IADS
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
August, 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 12, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
January 7, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
120 days after signature
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) an extension manual to be issued not later
than June 30, 1982 (para. 39);



- 44 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) assessment of research stations to determine
optimal number and location (para. 44);
(c) the merger of the extension services of DEM, PPD,
HDB and TDB to be completed by June 30, 1982
and DAJ merger to be completed by June 30, 1983
(para. 54);
(d)  Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) signing of UNDP Project Document
(para. 49);
(b) approval of the project proformas
(para. 52);
(c) opening of a revolving fund account
(para. 53); and
Cd) filling the position of director-general
(para. 54).



