OFPICIAL
I)CUMENTS    CREDIT NUMBER 1215 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Extension and Research Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                  1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1215 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          /, 1982,
between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHERFAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from United Nations
Development Program (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant) in an amount of about $2,950,000 to
finance the services of consultants required for assisting in the
execution of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP Project Document) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed. otI the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of *the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿- 2 -
(a)  "DAE" means the Department of Agriculture Extension of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Forests;
(b) "PIW" means the Project Implementation Wing of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Agriculture and Forests;
(c) "BARC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Coun-
cil established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, or
any successor thereto;
(d)    "BARI" means   the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Institute, an autonomous institute under the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests, established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "BRRI" means the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute, an
autonomous institute under the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests, established and operating under the laws of the Bor-
rower, or any successor thereto;
(f) "Implementing Agencies" means DAE, PIW, BARC, BARI and
BRRI collectively;
(g) "Project Area" means the area comprising the following
15 agricultural districts: Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Pabna,
Rajashahi, Kushtia, Jessore, Barisal, Jamalpur, Mymensingh,
Kishoreganj, Tangail, Dacca, Faridpur, and Comilla;
(h) "Revolving Fund" means the fund to be established under
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(i) "Tk" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty three million two hundred thousand Spe-
cial Drawing Rights (SDR 23,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule


﻿-3-
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending
March 1, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal.
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Implementing Agencies with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, adminis-
trative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as


﻿-4-
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under Section 3.01 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall: (i)
establish and maintain, in a commercial bank, a Revolving Fund to
be administered by the Director of PIW and to be used exclusively
to account and make payments for expenditures for goods, civil
works, training and services required for the Project to the
extent payment for such expenditures is to be made in Takas; (ii)
by September 15, 1982, deposit in such Revolving Fund an initial
amount of Tk 2,000,000; and (iii) replenish the amount in the
Revolving Fund as and when needed, at the request of the Director
of PIW, at a level at least equal to Tk 2,000,000.
(c)   The adequacy of the Revolving Fund arrangements set
forth in paragraph (b) of this Section shall be reviewed jointly
by the Borrower and the Association in the fourth calendar quar-
ter of 1983 in order to determine the need for continuing the
Revolving Fund and, if the Revolving Fund is to be maintained,
the appropriate funding level required therefor. On the basis of
such review, the amount to which the Revolving Fund shall be
replenished from time to time, as provided in paragraph (b) (iif)
of this Section, shall be set at a level satisfactory to the
Association, unless the Borrower and the Association agree that
the Revolving Fund is not any longer necessary and may be discon-
tinued.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, the Borrower shall,
unless otherwise agreed with the Association, employ or cause
to be employed consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)  The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the
terms of reference of the consultants referred to in the Preamble
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall promptly establish DAE
and provide it with adequate staff (including a Director General
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the


﻿-5-
Association), funds and facilities as necessary to enable DAE to
carry out its functions under the Project.
(b)  For the purposes of paragraph (a) the Borrower shall
cause the merger of the extension services and staff of the
following departments or agencies of the Borrower into DAE to be
undertaken in accordance with the following schedule:
(i) Directorate    of  Agriculture   -   Extension  and
Management, by June 30, 1982;
(ii) Directorate of Agriculture - Jute Production,. as
follows:
(A) staff at the level of Assistant Director of
Agriculture and above, by June 30, 1982; and
(B) all remaining extension staff, by June 30,
1983.
(iii) Plant Protection Directorate, by June 30, 1982;
(iv) Horticulture Development Board, by June 30, 1982;
and
(v) Tobacco Development Board by June 30, 1982.
(c)    For  the purposes   of  paragraph  (a)  the  Borrower
undertakes further to cause the agricultural extension service of
its Water Development Board to be merged into DAE by June 30,
1983 and, in the meantime, not to increase the staff of such
service in the Water Development Board existing as of the date of
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1985
prepare and review with the Association proposals for merging the
Cotton Development Board with DAE.
Section 3.05. Not later than June 30, 1982, the Borrower
shall issue an extension manual agreed upon with the Association,
and thereafter carry out or cause to be carried out all Project
extension work in accordance with said manual.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than September 30, 1982 for comments by
the Association, a detailed program for the training under


﻿-6-
Part C of the Project, including inter alia the criteria for
selection of candidates for training abroad.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BARI:
(a) by December 31, 1982, to appoint an Associate Director
for BARI's Farming Systems Research Division;
(b)  by December 31, 1982, to undertake an analysis of its
off-farm research work with a view to reducing the number of
existing sites to a level which can be efficiently managed by
BARI, and furnish the Association with the findings thereof; and
(c)  by December 31, 1982, and by December 31 of each year
thereafter until cowpletion of the Project, to furnish to the
Association, for its comments, its annual off-farm research
program for the following fiscal year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)   promptly carry out an assessment of the Borrower's
agricultural research stations with the view to determining the
optimal number and location of such stations, and furnish the
Associ<ition, not later than December 31, 1982, with the findings
of such assessment; and
(b)   ensure that, except as the Association may otherwise
agree, no new agricultural research stations will be constructed
until the completion of the assessment referred to in paragraph
(a) above (other than those which the Borrower has undertaken to
construct pursuant to agreements with other external financing
entities or agencies entered into prior to January 1, 1982).
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower ohall cause the Implementing
Agencies to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goodE' to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit    against   Lizards    incident   to    the   acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such     insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currancy freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such - ods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation,   the   plans,  specifications,   reports,   contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies: (i)
to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use   in   the  Project;   (ii)   to   enable  the   Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) to furnish to the Association at regular
intervals   all  such   information  as   the  Association   shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities


﻿-8-
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the oper-
ations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the Implementing Agencies, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expendifture.
(b)   The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure and shall ena-
ble the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies: (i) to have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) to furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year in the case of BARI, BARC, BRRI and PIW, and nine
months after the end of each such year in the case of DAE, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
to furnish to the Association such other information concerning


﻿-9-
the accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to
furnish to the Association, in addition to the annual audited
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Sec-
tion, as soon as available, but in any case not later than three
months after the end of each fiscal year in the case of BARI,
BARC, BRRI and PIW, and six months after the end of each such
year in the case of DAE, the unaudited financial statements for
such fiscal year in respect of their respective Parts of the Pro-
ject.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to maintain the facilities constfacted under the Project
in accordance with sound engineering and maintenance practices,
and shall provide or cause to be provided all funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04-. The Borrower shall ensure that field staff
assigned to work under the Project will live in or near the areas
assigned for their operations and, to this end, shall provide
said staff with adequate housing and offices or rental allowances
as may be necessary for the purpose.
Section 4.05. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension or research work under the Project, the Bor-
rower undertakes to make available:
(a) to all eligible staff who are in need of credit for the
purchase of motorcycles or bicycles, s-uch credit on terms and
coaditions, satisfactory to the Association, designed to provide
incentives for the purchase of said motorcycles cr bicycles; and
(b) such    incentives,  including   appropriate   travelling
allowances, as required to encourage optimum use of the motorcy-
cles and bicycles purchased pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿- 10 -
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing   of   the  Project   shall   have   been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)  Paragraph, (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, 'cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the UNPD Project Document has been duly executed and
delivered, and all conditions precedent to. the effectiveness
thereof (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the position of Director General of DAE has been filled
in accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(c) the Project Proformas for carrying out the Project have
been approved by the Borrower; and
(d)  the Borrower has opened the account for the Revolving
Fund in accordance with paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date                        q 198g9a-      is
hereby specified for the purpos    of Sectio  12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. the obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional _S_cretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the-
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         SETU 65886
Dacca


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
B       yXA"dAd
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
vI               South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                10,740,000      85%
(2) Equipment and               2,150,000      100% of foreign
vehicles                                  expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Consultants'                  320,000      100%
services for
monitoring and
evaluation
(4) Training                    1,400,000      100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Staff salaries              6,450,000      Amounts specified
and allowances                            in the Annex to
this Schedule
(6) Research sub-projects         860,000      100%
approved by BARC
under Part G of the
Project
(7) Unallocated                 1,280,000
TOTAL           23,200,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agr-ed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, be notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 15 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
Annex to Schedule 1
Disbursement against Incremental Extension Staff Cost
1.     Disbursements under Category (5) shall be made at the
equivalent of the following rates for incremental staff in the
services of DAE in the Project Area:
(a) $500 per annum per extension agent of DAE above a base
figure of 4,500 extension agents for the Borrower's
fiscal year ending June 30, 1983 and 5,700 extension
agents for subsequent fiscal years; and
(b) $1,500 per annum per Thana-level extension officer
above a base figure of 980;
up to the respective totals specified in Part B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
2.   Disbursements shall be made on a quarterly basis using one-
fourth of the rates indicated in paragraph 1..
3.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of a statement of
DAE staff strength, certified by the Secretary or an Additional
Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Forests,
indicating   the  number   of  full-time  extension   agents  and
additional extension officers who have been on duty in the
Project Area for the entire quarter and have received their full
salaries and allowances. The staff level shall be shown
separately for extension agents and extension officers, indicated
in paragraph I of this Annex.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in strength-
ening its extension services and agricultural research in the
Project Area and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Improvement  of  agricultural   extension  effectiveness- by
merging and reorganizing five existing extension agencies.
Part B:
Strengthening of extension work by appointing about 2,270
extension agents to increase the total to about 8,060 and by
upgrading about 200 extension agents as extension officers and
hiring 60 extension officers to increase the total number of
Thana-level extension officers to about 1,640.
Part C:
Carrying out a training program for extension and research
officers.
Part D:
Improvement of extension and research staff mobility by
providing about 5,400 bicycles, 500 motorcycles and 23 other
vehicles and by providing adequate funds for extension staff
travel.
Part E:
Construction of new extension offices in 20% of the Project
Area and rehabilitation of about 750 abandoned seed stores as
housing-cum-offices for about 1,500 extension agents.
Part F:
Improvement of research facilities by expanding a BARI
coconut research station into a regional station and minor
upgrading of the following stations: Jessore, Jamalpur, Ishurdi,
Hathazari, Bogra, Thakurgaon, Rangpur and Rajshahi.


﻿- 18 -
Part G:
Strengthening of adaptive agricultural research by reorga-
nizing BARI regional research and by providing research grants
through BARC for research sub-projects to be carried out by uni-
versities and research institutions.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goUds shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.     For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the-Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportuni-
ty to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the   satisfaction   of   the  Borrower   and   the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.     If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 21 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Contracts for civil works shall be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.     Vehicles (other than motorcycles and bicycles) and
items  of   equipment  estimated   to  cost   less  than   $10,000
equivalent, which to the extent practicable cannot be grouped
into bid packages of $50,000 or more, may be procured through
prudent shoppin3 on the basis of price quotations from at least
three  suppliers,   up  to   an  aggregate   amount  of   $300,000
equivalent.
3.    Motorcycles and bicycles may be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association, taking into account the
preferences of the staff to whom such motorycles and bicycles are
to be provided.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modificati4n to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 22 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such    contract, together with    the analysis of the
respective  bids, recommendations    for  award  and   such  other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if    it determines that the     award  of  the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of LAt      ,
198  e
FOR SECRETARY


