Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        77.7!
Report No.P-3830-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$210.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
FOURTEENTH POWER PROJECT
May 25, 1984
I  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 30, 1984)
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rp 1,000
Rp 100         =  US$0.1
Rp 1 million   =  US$1,000
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA AND PLN
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton               =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)                =  0.0063 barrels (bbl)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)            =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)   =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
I kilovolt-ampere (kVA)   =  1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)            =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)         1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
DGEP         -      Directorate-General of Electr:ic Power, Ministry of Mines
and Energy
GOI          -      Government of Indonesia
IERR         -      Internal Economic Rate of Return
JABOTABEK    -      Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi area
LNG          -      Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC         -      Long Run Marginal Cost
MME          -      Ministry of Mines and Energy
MONENCO      -      Montreal Engineering Company of Canada/UK
PERTAMINA    -     National Oil and Gas Company
PLN          -     National Electricity Authority
REPELITA     -      National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84, Repelita IV,
1984-89)
ROR          -      Rate of return
SFR          -      Self-financing ratio
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTEENTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:    Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary: National Electricity Authority (PLN)
Amount:      US$210.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:       Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Relending
Terms:       The proceeds of the loan will be relent from the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) to PLN for 20 years, including five years of
grace. The relending rate will be equal to the Bank's standard
variable interest rate plus no less than a quarter percent for
administration charges. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the GOI.
Project
Description: The project supports the twin objectives of the expansion of
power supply facilities in Indonesia to meet the demand and the
development of alternate sources in the energy sector. It
includes the construction of two 400 MW coal-fired units (Nos. 3
and 4) at the Suralaya steam power plant in West Java, and expan-
sion of the distribution facilities in East and Central Java and
in the Jabotabek (Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi) area.
About 400,000 residential consumers in urban and rural areas will
benefit from this supply. Simultaneously, the project will
address the institutional development needs of PLN. Consulting
services for hydropower and transmission development are also
included. Possible risks include the risk of delay in the
Suralaya project due to a delay in finalizing the critical steam
generator contract or constraints on local funds. Suitable
agreements have been reached with the Government and PLN to
reduce these risks. There is no unusual risk associated with the
distribution component of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-- ii -
Estimated Cost: a/                                  Local    Foreign    Total
…---- (US$ million) -----
Suralaya Units 3 and 4                         88.9      287.6      376.5
Distribution in East and Central
Java and the Jabotabek areas                 34.5       81.6      116.1
Consulting services for
(a)  Transmission lines                         1.5        2.5        4.0
(b)  Hydro studies                              2.0        8.0       10.0
Total Base Cost                            126.9      379.7     506.6
Physical contingencies                         14.0       37.0       51.0
Price contingencies                            37.2       61.9       99.1
Total Project Cost b/                      178.1      478.6     656.7
Interest during construction
Bank loan                                     0.9       40.0       40.9
Others                                        0.7       27.4       28.1
Front-end fee on Bank loan                       -         0.5        0.5
Total Financing Required                      179.7      546.5      726.2
Local    Foreign    Total
--- (USs$ million)
Financing Plan:
IBRD: Loan 2214-IND                              -        54.0       54.0
Proposed loan                              -      210.0      210.0
Suppliers' credits                             29.7      215.1      244.8
GOI/PLN                                       150.0       67.4c/   217.4
Total                                      179.7      546.5     726.2
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
(US$ million) ------------
Annual               9.0   46.0   85.0   50.0   15.0    5.0
Cumulative           9.0   55.0  140.0  190.0  205.0  210.0
a/   The costs are net of taxes and import duties as PLN is exempt from them.
b/   Inclusive of US$294.4 million for Suralaya unit 3, for which US$54 mil-
lion was provided under the Twelfth Power Project (Loan 2214-IND). Total
project cost net of Suralaya unit 3 is US$362.3 million equivalent.
c/   Comprises interest during construction.



- iii -
Rate of Return:    28% for Suralaya units 3 and 4 and 20% for the Jabotabek
distribution, which together constitute 86% of the project
cost
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4949-IND, dated  May 25, 1984.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE FOURTEENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$210.0 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Fourteenth Power Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The Government would relend the proceeds of
the loan to the National Electricity Authority (PLN) at a rate equal to the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, plus no less than a quarter percent
for administration charges. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and
economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third Small
Enterprise Development Project (No. P-3815-IND), circulated under cover
of R84-124, dated May 11, 1984, for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1984.



-2-
population growth is about 4% p.a.  T'he 1982 estimate of GNP a7r capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-.
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings.  The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the
economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and
foreign private investment. However, the dominant external influence over the
past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in
foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exlports from the oil and gas sector
rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in 1980/81, when the
current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil receipts also
provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and helped
finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures has also
helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the support for
agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support services and
effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade, and movement
towards self-sufficiency in rice.  Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth
rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from a very low
base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economiy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past eighteen months include:
(a)  a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b)  a major rephasing (postponemesnt/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c)  successive price increases for petroleum products over the past two
years, which have largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 3 -
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) approval of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at increasing
government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplifying the
structure of rates and improving administration.
These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy, are
already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit has been reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4%
of GNP) in 1982/83 to about US$4.2 billion (6.0% of GNP) in 1983/84. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts resulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand and higher export earnings
from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies to promote non-oil exports. The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have risen on average
by only 2% p.a. over the past two years. Routine expenditure has been held in
check by a freeze on civil service salaries (a 15% increase is budgeted for
1984/85) and reduced subsidies on food, fertilizer and petroleum products.
This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down to about
12% in 1983/84, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983
devaluation and the recent petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
6.        A sustained rate of growth of at least 5% p.a. is probably necessary
to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty alleviation
over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate, without
generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the major
challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the economy
will require continued action in three key policy areas: management of the
public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy environ-
ment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade regime and
development of the financial sector.
7.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import
content of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to faci-
litate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program.
Possible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.



- 4 -
8.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is n1o effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, I]ndonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency.  There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export mark(ets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protecl: domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
9.        The Government's decision to move t:owards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relatirng to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions.  Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the
importance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are
two important processes at work in Indornesia which enable the benefits of
growth to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends.  The first of



- 5 -
these is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of which 1 million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
11.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The
1979-81 bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined. This situation may have been reversed
following the 1983 devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
12.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on
agricultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at
economic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural
year (e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to
encourage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important
that public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as
social programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease
the burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments,
13.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be



-- 6 -
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the qtuality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained.  By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%
respectively for 1990.
External Capital Flows
14.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks.  The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term.  Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved.  Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$4.6 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.4 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of
external reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
15.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 is estimated at
US$23.7 billion, with an additional US$11.2 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid, accounts for 47% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 22%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at 14
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintainilng its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts in 1983, the
ratio rose to 23% in that year. With the projected Levels and composition of
borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service ratio, again
based on net exports, would rise to about 28% in 1985 and then gradually
decline to about 23% by the end of the decade. With private MLT debt
included, the total debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of
gross exports, would rise from 19% in 1983 to arournd 22% during 1985-88 and
decline to 20% in 1990. While debt management will require careful attention
in the coming years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by
international standards.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA-3/
16.       As of March 31, 1984, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$931.8 million, and 85 Bank loans amounting to US$6,259.5 mil-
lion. IFC commitments totalled US$162.2 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984. Given the critical importance of
agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development, water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial devel-
opment financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications,
population and technical assistance.
17.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
18.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third Small
Enterprise Development Project (No. P-3815-IND), circulated under cover
of R84-124, dated May 11, 1984, for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1984.



- 8 -
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to accelerate disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors.  The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the educa-
tion sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In
the industrial sector, in-depth sector work i's focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor- and resource-intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate sectoral reform.  In energy,
sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and i-iprove sectoral planning.
Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of
lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and contini'ed support for
transport is anticipated. Continued lending in this areas of piovision of
social services, in population, health and nuttrition, urban development and
water supply, will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the devel-
opment of innovative low-cost solutions.
19 4    The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratioA! from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83 e The poor FY80 ratio was in
large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to 'ndonesia increased by 122%
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and tectnical manpower of course
compounds the problem.  A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues.  Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general. and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.  As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
The Bank is helping the GOI in a specia'L effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions
and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in
Indonesia,  Finally, to reduce initial projeclt implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improvements are
taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from
US$204.0 million in FY79 to US$582.8 million in FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintairn their efforts.
4/ The ratio of actual disbursements dluring the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbtursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9--
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff of US$625. Given Indonesia's much improved creditworthiness,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
The Energy Sector
Energy Resources
21.       Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Oil and natural gas now
account for almost all of total commercial energy consumption. While undis-
covered oil reserves are estimated at 10-40 billion barrels, proven resources
are 9.5 billion barrels. Unless massive new reserves are discovered, produc-
tion capacity is unlikely to increase beyond 1.9 million barrels per day. GOI
has therefore adopted a policy of promoting alternative indigenous energy
sources.
22.       The estimated natural gas reserve is 69 trillion cu ft (TCF),5/ of
which 85% is non-associated and can be developed independently of oil. How-
ever, reserves are generally located away from population and industrial
centers. The Arun field in North Sumatra has 17 TCF and Natuna, in the South
China Sea, 35 TCF. Production of natural gas reached 998 million cu ft in
1979. Half of this was exported as liquified natural gas (k7G) to Japan. LNG
production is expected to double by 1985 to 15 million tons- per year and to
reach 28 million tons by 1990. Gas pipelines have been laid to domestic steel
and fertilizer factories and domestic consumption is expected to increase by
15% every year.
23.       Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be as high as 20 billion
tons, mostly located in West and South Sumatra and Kalimantan. While
production is currently about 450,000 tons per year, major increases are
planned by GOI. Coal will become the major source of fuel for the power
sector as major thermal plants come on line in the 1980s. Work started early
in 1982 on a 3.0 million ton per year mine at Bukit Asam in South Sumatra and
on a 0.6 million ton per year mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal field. Muara
Tiga has reserves to permit an increase in production to 2.5 million tons per
year by 1990. A program to raise the coal production at Ombilin in West
Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year is now also being implemented by GOI. In
5/   1 TCF of gas = 24.7 million tons of oil equivalent.
6/   1 ton of LNG = 1.2 tons of oil equivalent.



- 10 -
addition, in 1981 GO! entered into a number of production-sharing agreements
with private foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for explorat-ion
and exploitation of Kalimantan coal reserves and exploration is now irl
progress
24.       Indonesia's total hydroelectric resouirces are large, but development
is limited by its geographlic distribution relative to demand.  The greatest
potential (over 35%) lies in Irian Taya;a  where the demand is less than one
percent of total domestic demand, while Java,  hich accounts for 80% of the
current demand, has less than 10%G of the total potential.  Existirng hydroelec-
tric installations aggregate to 19312 n1'; the7 are located mainly in Java (489
MW), Sumatra (612 MW), and Sulawesi (181 MW). Schemes with an aggregate capa-
city of about 1,500 MW are currentl  under construction.  PLN, the National
Electricity Authority, assisted by Nippor. Koel of Japan. has carried out a
systematic countrywide resource survey using fundss from. TBIR  Loan 1365-IND
(the Sixth Power Project) which has led tD an inventory of hydroelectric
sites. This work is being followed up with various prefeasibility and
feasibility studies of the promising hydroelectric sites; prefeasibility
studies of 21 such hydro schemes and feasibility studies for five schemes are
being financed under Loan 1365-IND.  In addition, prereasibility studies 1bor
20 sites and feasibility studies for six s.ites w11l be f-inanced under thre
Thirteenth Power Project (Loan 2300--IND),
25.       Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are found on all  islands
except Kalimantan, but only a few sites hELve been ilnvestigated and Only one,
Kamojang in West Java, has been delineated.  It is believed that potential
reserves may approach 10,000 MW, distributed as follows: Java 59500 MW;
Sulawesi 1,400 MW; Sumatra 1,100 MW; other islands 2,000 MW.  GO!, in collabo-
ration with the Government of New Zealand, initiated development of the
Kamojang field in 1976.  The first 30  'vl g5enerating set was com-issioned for
commercial operation in January 1983; the Bank-assisted TTwelfth Power Pro"ect
(Loan 2214-IND) provides for the exparsion of the station by 110 MW, In 1982,,
PERTAMINA (the national oil and gas company) entered into a joint operation
contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of' Union Oil of CaliLornia, for
development of the Salak field in West Java.  Exploration is in progress.  rG0I
has announced its intention to lease other sites ic successful bidders to
accelerate the development of geothermal energy,.
Institutions in the Energy Sector
26.       The principal agency responsible for the implementation of GOI pol i-
cies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Min.es and Energy (.E) eME was
established in 1978 to coordinate al:L activities in the energy sector and
control the three state enterprises responsible for the execution of GOI
policies in the energy subsectors: PERTAMINA for oil and gas, P. N. BATUBARA
for coal, and PLN for electricity.  Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector; for example, the Public Works Department deals with
hydropower resource surveys, the Department: of Agriculture oversees forestry
products, and the National Atomic Energy Commission is respons'ble for nuclear
development.  In order to ensure appropriate coordination of energy policy, an
inter-ministerial National Energy Board (BAXOREN) was established to oversee
sectoral development.



- 11 -
Bank Role and Strategy in the Energy Sector
27.       The Bank has been actively involved in a number of the sectoral
developments described above. During 1981, at the invitation of GOI, the
Bank/UNDP carried out a detailed assessment of the Indonesian energy sector,
identifying policy options and analyzing investment priorities to provide a
framework for technical assistance and advice to GOI on institutional
aspects. The results have been incorporated in a report (No. 3543-IND,
November 1981) entitled "Indonesia - Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector." This report confirmed earlier findings that alternatives for oil
must be developed quickly for electricity generation, and recommended that
this strategy should be extended to industry, transportation and households.
It further pointed out that subsidized oil prices, weak institutions, manpower
shortages and a lack of detailed energy sector planning were the chief
obstacles to rapid substitution for oil.
28.       Subsidized petroleum product prices have caused serious distortions
in the economy by failing to reflect the opportunity cost of these products.
The effects of this have been increased use of oil over other competing fuels,
the promotion of domestic consumption over exports and distortion of demand
between individual petroleum products, since the degree of subsidy between oil
products was uneven. The Bank has had a continuous dialogue with GOI on the
question and has highlighted the consequences of this policy through its
economic and sector work. In 1983, the Bank prepared a study entitled
"Indonesia - Selected Issues of Energy Pricing Policy" (Report No. 4285-IND)
to analyze the policy options and their implications. In the last three
years, GOI has taken bold steps to increase the domestic prices of petroleum
fuels, the last being in January 1984, increasing average prices by 35%. This
step followed increases of about 60% each in January 1982 and January 1983.
These measures have now eliminated the differential between average domestic
prices and the average opportunity cost. Currently, the prices for aviation
fuel and regular gasoline are 125% and 150% of international levels, the
prices for diesel and fuel oil are slightly above the international level, and
the price of kerosene is about 64% of the international level. The weighted
average of domestic prices is now about the same as the average international
price of a comparable bundle of petroleum products.
29.       The Bank is also providing assistance for institutional development
in the energy sector. Among the initiatives which have been assisted by the
Bank was the design of a management information system for all activities of
the Directorate General of Electric Power, which will be implemented during
the next three years. In addition, a number of assistance efforts have been
devised for PLN itself in such important areas as planning, construction,
accounting, manpower development and training, primarily financed with Bank
funds (paras. 54 to 57). Furthermore, in the coal subsector, various steps
are being initiated for institutional and manpower development under two
recent Bank-assisted projects, the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transportation Project (Loan 2079-IND) and the Coal Exploration Engineering
Project (Loan 2153-IND).
30.       The magnitude of investments necessary to implement GOI's policy of
diversification of energy sources is large. The Bank has estimated that the



12 *
annual investments in the energy sector will increase from about US$1.27 bil-
lion in 1980 to about US$10 billion (at 1980 levels) in the year 2000. About
half of these will be directly in the electricity subsector. The Bank's
lendLing strategy for energy is to continue its support for the investment
program in the electricity and coal subsectors during the next few years, with
a focus on steps to strengthen the institutions and develop manpower resour-
ces. Additionally, future projects mtay be developed in city gas or liquified
petroleum gas production or natural gas utilization to assist GOI's energy
diversification policy. Studies in each cif these three areas are being
financed under the Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Credit 898-IND).
The Electricity Subsector
31,       The electricity subsector is regulated by MME thro'igh the
Directorate General of Electric Power. The subsector comprises (a) PLN,
(b) captive plants installed by private parties for their own use, (c) some
small municipal franchises, and (d) a small number of cooperatives which were
set up to provide electricity in certain rural areas remote from PLN supply
systems, Legislation was enacted in 1979 to provide for private and coopera-
tive franchise participation in the electricity sector.
PLN's Organization
32,       PLN is a public corporation constituted under Presidential Decree
No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility i-or the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity and the planning, construction and operation of
electricity supply facilities. PLN iis managed by a board of directors headed
by a President Director, who is appointed by the President and is accountable
to the Minister of Mines and Energy. The President Director has authority for
all elay-to-day operations of PLN.  The board currently includes five other
directors with functional responsibility respectively for planning, construc-
tion, operations, finance and administration. Operational responsibility
devolves to 17 regions, and responsibility for major construction to 14 proj-
ect managers. Also reporting to the board are several staff units responsible
for power research, education and training, management services, an audit unit
called the Corporation Inspectorate, and the new Java system operation and
control unit.
PLN's Facilities and Market
33.       PLN is the dominant executive agency iII the electricity subsector.
In 1983 it had 3,253 MW of installed generating capacity, over 8,000 km of
transmission lines at 70 and 150 kV and about 35.,000 km of distribution lines,
the balk of which are in Java.  Java now has a fully interconnected grid at
150 kV.  By early 1985, a 500 kV system covering West and Central Java will be
commissioned; it will be extended to East Java by 1987.
34.       A study to assess potential demand in Java (which presently accounts
for about 80% of total electricity consumption) was undertaken in 1974-76,
financed under the West Java Thermal Power ]Project (Credit 399-IND). It
showed that the underlying demand was so large that PLN's sales growth would



- 13 -
be limited only by its ability to supply until about 1990; only thereafter
would it be limited by growth of the market itself. From 1976/77 to 1981/82,
PLN's sales increased annually by an average of 21%. The sales growth in
1982/83 slowed to 16%, partly due to economic recession and partly due to
budgetary constraints which slowed down the program of connection of new
consumers. However, long waiting lists for new service connections and the
relatively low level of electrification are such as to sustain a high rate of
growth of sales. The present projections are that PLN's sales will grow at an
average rate of about 19 to 20% p.a. for the coming five years and then sales
growth will gradually slow down to about 16% p.a.
Long-Term Development Plan
35.       PLN follows a practice of preparing a long-term development plan to
cover the projected requirements of generation, transmission, distribution and
other facilities. The latest plan, covering the development period 1983/84 to
1993/94, shows generating capacity increasing from 3,253 MW in 1982/83 to over
14,000 MW in 1993/94. The major growth will be achieved by the construction
of coal-fired thermal, hydro and geothermal plants, reducing the share of
oil-based electricity generation from over 81% currently to about 27% in
1993/94. It is a balanced program which supports a vital part of the GOI's
objective of reducing the domestic usage of oil.  The total investment for the
program is estimated to be about US$21.0 billion in constant 1983 prices; the
investment requirements will rise from US$1.0 billion in 1982/83 to
US$2.5 billion in 1993/94. While the demand for electricity exists and PLN
appears capable of expanding its organization to implement such a program, a
major constraint may develop in mobilizing the required finances if the macro-
economic situation does not improve within the next two or three years. The
program objectives will therefore have to be kept under continuous review
though the development targets have been approved by the Government. The Bank
is proposing a detailed review of PLN's investment program in FY85.
36.       In order to achieve the objective of rapid electrification and to
ensure soundness of the overall development program, the Bank has the follow-
ing agreements with GOI and PLN, which will be continued under the proposed
project: (i) GOI will review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN's develop-
ment plan and associated financial forecast and financing plan and will take
appropriate measures to facilitate PLN's access to required finance
(Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement); (ii) GOI will, through PLN,
review annually with the Bank, in particular, potential changes in the load
growth for electric power on Java and any adjustment which may be required in
PLN's development plan to accommodate these changes (Section 4.02(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement); (iii) GOI and PLN will review annually with the Bank
PLN's proposed investment budget for the following year, in order to enable
the Bank to express its views on the priorities reflected in the budget and on
the balance among the generation, transmission and distribution investment
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (iv) PLN will prepare and
furnish to the Bank annually for review its proposed customer connection
program and thereafter implement the program (Section 3.04 of the draft
Project Agreement).



- 14 -
The Bank Group's Earlier Operations and PLN's Per:ormance
37.       Since 1969, through a total of thirteern projects, the Bank Group has
provided US$1,869 million for power generation, transmission and distribution
facilities in Indonesia. Four distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and 334-
IND and Loans 1259-IND and 2056-TND) rehabilitatecl and expanded the distribu-
tion facilities in the greater Jakarta area. Nine power generation projects
(Credit 399-IND and Loans 1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-IND,
1950-IND, 2214-IND and 2300-IND) in West and Central Java were undertaken to
help PLN expand electricity generation capacity ir Java, to provide a strong
all-Java 500 kV grid, to reduce system transmission and distribution losses
and to introduce a program of mini hydro development in Sumatra. A Project
Performance Audit Report on the first two projects (Credits 165-IND and
334-IND) was issued in November 1979 anld the lesscns learned from these opera-
tions have been applied to subsequent operations.  They relate mainly to
timely appointment of consultants, effective supervision, and lending as late
as possible in the project cycle. A Project Completion Report for the third
and fourth projects (Credit 399-IND and Loan 1127-IND) has been completed and
the Project Performance Audit Report is being finalized.
38.       PLN's implementation capacity has grown vastly since the Bank's
early association with it.  All Bank-assisted projects have been or are being
implemented as designed and have generally been within the estimated cost.
However, delays of the order of six months to two years in implementation have
been experienced compared to the appraisal estimates. The growing size and
complexity of the projects, coupled with timE-consuming Government procedures
for the award of contracts, opening of letters of -redit, budget approvals,
etc., explain most delays. It is relevant tc note that the implementation
schedules for the Bank-assisted projects have generally been optimised to
international standards with little slack to accommodate such procedural
delays.
39.       The most recently approved large, new generation projects in the
sector were two hydro projects at Saguling (700 MW) and Cirata (500 MW),
assisted by Loans 1950-IND and 2300-IND, respectively. Physical progress of
construction at the Saguling dam is expected close to the appraisal target,
though the commissioning of the power station will be delayed by about six
months due to landslide problems in the power house area and delay in tunnel
constructions. The start of construction of the main civil works of the Cirata
project was delayed by four months due to a delay in the Government approval
of the consultant's contract for construction supervision; however, all major
construction contracts were awarded on time.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The feasibility study for the Suralaya steam power plant was
completed in 1977 under the Bank-assisted Fourth Power Project (Loan
1127-IND). The construction of the first two units was financed by the Eighth
and Ninth Power Projects (Loans 1708-IND and 1872-IMD), The studies for
transmission and distribution expansion in Java, funded under the Sixth Power



- 15 -
Project (Loan 1365-IND), were completed in 1982.  A Bank mission apprai`sed ta
project in December 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington from
April 23-27, 1984; the Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. A. Arismunandar,
Director General for Electric Power and New Energy, Ministry of Mines and
Energy. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4949-IND) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
41.       The project supports one of the major elements of the GOI's energy
policy of diversification away from oil in the generation of electricity, by
supporting the construction of the coal-fired generating plant at Suralaya.
The Bank has been involved with the development of this major thermal genera-
tion project since its conceptual stages and has had an active involvement in
the optimization of the technical and organizational aspects. The Bank's
support for the project will ensure timely implementation of generation as
well as distribution facilities, which are urgently needed in the current
environment of resource scarcity. The project also supports further
improvements and consolidation of PLN's skills in planning, construction and
management, in which the Bank can play a constructive role. Appropriate
institutional support is being provided for this purpose. Of particular note
is the extension of the institutional strengthening effort in the areas of
financial performance and engineering. Financial performance measures and
objectives adopted in the context of the project (para. 60) and structural
changes to be made in the organization of engineering and related functions
(para. 56) represent significant steps forward for the utility.
Project Description
42.       The project comprises the following:
(a) construction of two 400 MW coal-fired thermal units (Nos. 3 and 4)
at Suralaya in West Java;
(b) extension of the distribution network in Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang
and Bekasi (the Jabotabek area), and in East Java and Central Java;
and
(c) consulting services for design and implementation of transmission
works and for engineering and detailed design of potential hydro-
electric projects.
43.       Suralaya Units 3 and 4.  PLN is currently constructing the first two
thermal generating units at Suralaya in West Java, with Bank assistance.
These units are scheduled to be commissioned in October 1984 and June 1985.
The project would support the construction of two additional coal-fired units,
to be commissioned in 1988 and 1989. These units would be coal-fired only,
unlike the first two units which are dual-fired (coal or oil). Coal for the
first two units at Suralaya will be provided from the Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development and Transportation Project, now under implementation (Loan
2079-IND), which will have a capacity of 3.0 million tons per annum. In addi-



- 16 -
tion to this development, the Government is planning development of a new open
cast mine in the adjoining area of Muara Tiga, which will use the same trans-
portation infrastructure as Bukit Asam. Exp'Loration in the Muara Tiga area
has already proven mineable reserves of over 100 million tons, which are in
excess of the requirements of Suralaya units 3 and 4, over their life of 30
years. A feasibility study for the mine development financed by the Bank
under the Coal Exploration Engineering Proje(ct (Loan 2153-IND) is in pro-
gress. Exploration is also in progress in other parts of Sumatra and in
Kalimantan (para. 23). The Government proposes to develop indigenous coal
production to about 15 million tons per annunm by 1990. In the event of a
delay in the development of indigenous coal production, it would be possible
to meet the coal requirements of SuralaLya by imported coal. Currently,
arrangements for coal import are being studied for the anticipated deficit for
units 1 and 2 in the 1984-85 period before the full commissioning of the Bukit
Asam mine. During negotiations, agreemlent was reached with GOI that it will
submit to the Bank a satisfactory plan to supply adequate coal for the opera-
tion of the Suralaya units, either by indigenous p-roduction or imports, at
least two years prior to the commissioning of unit 3, i.e. by June 30, 1986,
and thereafter will implement the agreed plan, in order to ensure adequate and
timely coal supplies to all units at Suralaya (Secfion 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
44,       Transmission,  Early in 1981, using funds out of Loan 1365-IND, PLN
commissioned Beca Worley International of New Zealand to review and report on
the adequacy of its transmission and distribution program through 1987 to
match the ongoing program of construction of new generating facilities in
Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi (referred to as the JASUSS area). In
1983, PLN's planning department reviewed the ongoing program for the balance
between generation and transmission development in Java and formulated
proposals for transmission and substation requirements for the period 1985-
89. The proposed project provides for the services of consulting engineers
for detailed engineering and construction supervision for assisting PLN in
designing and implementing the transmission development program.
45.       Distribution.  Following up on the B3eca Worley International report,
PLN established distribution planning units in each c,f its regions in late
1982, which have formulated detailed proposals for the expansion of the dis-
tribution networks for East, Central and West Java for the period 1985-88.
The proposed project includes subprojects in East and Central Java which meet
the established financial viability criteria and are required in the two-year
period 1985-87. The Bank has also been involved from its early operations in
the reinforcement and expansion of the distribution system in the Jabotabek
region, covering an area of about 5,700 sq km and a population of over 10
million, which contributes about 40% to the total electricity sales of PLN.
nT 1979/80, PLN commissioned a feasibility stu,dy of the distribution require-
ments in the area during the period 1982-90, which has been updated by PLN's
planning department to identify the requirements beyond 1985. The proposed
project includes the estimated requirements for one year after mid-1985. The
distribution extension program included in the project in East and Central
Java and Jabotabek together, will involve installation of 940 km of 20 kV
overhead lines, 580 km of 20 kV underground cables (in Jakarta), and 4,240 km
of 400 V lines, and will result in supply to over 400,000 new consumers,
largely residential.



- 17 -
46.       Hydro-Power Studies.  The Sixth Power Project (Loan 1365-IND) pro-
vided funds for feasibility studies of five hydro schemes (para. 24). Nippon
Koei consultants of Japan, who are conducting the studies, expect to complete
them in 1984. The proposed project provides funds for continuing this work,
i.e., supporting engineering and detailed design of feasible projects.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project, inclusive of the physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$656.7 million equivalent, of which US$478.6
million or 73% is the foreign exchange cost. The costs are net of taxes and
duties as PLN is exempt from them.  All costs are based on December 1983
prices; physical contingencies are applied at an average of about 10%. The
price contingencies, which amount to about 18% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, have been calculated on the basis of the following inflation
factors: foreign: 1984 - 3.5%, 1985 - 8.0%, 1986-88 - 9.0%, 1989 - 7.5%;
local: 1984 - 12.0%, 1985-87 - 10.0%, 1988 - 9.0%, 1989 - 7.5%. Total
financing required for the project would be US$726.2 million (including
interest during construction and the front-end fee on the Bank loan), of which
US$546.5 million is the foreign cost component.
48.       The proposed loan of US$210.0 would cover about 32% of total project
cost and would provide 29% of total financing required. The remainder of the
financing required would be provided by: (i) a part of the proceeds of Loan
2214-IND, which provided funds for engineering and construction supervision
for Suralaya units 3 and 4, as well as for selected equipment for unit 3
(US$54.0 million); (ii) suppliers' credits (US$244.8 million); and
(iii) GOI/PLN sources (US$217.4 million). The proceeds of the Bank loan,
which would be made to GOI, would be relent to PLN under a subsidiary loan
agreement, the signing of which will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The relending rate will be equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate
plus no less than a quarter percent for administration charges. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by GOI. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that GOI would make available adequate funds for the project and for PLN's
overall agreed investment program (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       With the exception of concrete poles required for distribution,
which will be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), all equipment
financed under the Bank loan shall be procured by International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower. The Bank-financed items will
include: (a) turbine generators and ancillary equipment for Suralaya units 3
and 4; (b) structural steel work and cladding, ash and coal handling plant,
electrical equipment, transformers and miscellaneous equipment, for Suralaya
unit 4; (c) equipment for the distribution component; and (d) consulting
services. Concrete poles will be procured by LCB in view of high transport
costs and the significant risk of breakage in transport. For the procurement
of steam generators for the Suralaya units, GOI proposes to obtain suppliers'
credits for an estimated cost of the contract of US$244.8 million. Bids have



- 18 -
been received from two major international suppliers for this purpose. Local
contracts for goods, services and works financed by PLN/GOI funds will be
procured through local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
50.        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
(US$ milliorn)
Procurement Method               Total
Project element                         ICB       LCB       Other       N.A.      cost
A. Surala.,a Units 3 and 4
1.  Stream generators and            -         -       244.8/a       -    244.8
ancillary equipment
2.  Turbine generators and        141.2        -          -          -    141.2
other equipment           (133.4) /b                               (133.4)
3.  Site preparation, civil          -       76.0         -          -      76.0
works and buildings
4.  Consulting services and          -         -        28.6          -     28.6
training                                        (28.6)              (28.6)
5.-  Construction expenses and       -         -          -        11.8    11.8
administration
B.  Distribution
1.  Equipment                      81.0      15.0         -          -      96.0
(75.C0)   (10.0)                         (85.0)
2.  Installation                     -       39.3         -         2.5    41.8
C.  Technical Assistance                  -         -        16.5         -      16.5
(16.5)              (16.5)
Total                         222.2    130.3       289.9       14.3   656.7
(208.4)   (10.0)    (45.1)               (263.5)
/a   By suppliers' credits, following GOI proc:edures.  Proposals are currently
under evaluation.
lb   Figures in parentheses indicate financing from the Bank loans.
51.        The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the foreign
cost of directly imported equipment and materials, (b) 100% of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items, (c) 70% of the cost of
other items procured locally; (d) 70% of the cost of concrete poles; and
(e) 100% of the expenditures for consult-ing services. The disbursement of the
loan for ttiis project is estimated to be faster than the average Bank profile
because of the distribution component, for which all procurement will be
completed within the first three years.



- 19 -
Project Implementation
52.       The Suralaya extension will be carried out by PLN, with the assist=
ance of MONENCO Associates of Canada/U.K., who are also the engineers for the
ongoing work on the first two 400 MW generating sets. MONENCO is associated
with the local consulting firm of P.T. Central Development Enterprise. The
total cost of engineering services is UK E 12.7 million and Rp 4.0 billion,
The contract includes a provision for the transfer of know-how and training of
PLN's personnel in Indonesia as well as overseas. The engineering and
construction of the distribution component of the project will be carried out
by PLN's distribution staff in the wilayas (PLN's regions). The staff in the
Jabotabek area is already implementing the ongoing program of the expansion of
the distribution network and is sufficiently experienced for the proposed
program. Adequate staff is also available in the East and Central Java
Distribution Divisions to undertake the proposed program. All procurement
will be centrally carried out by PLN's staff at the head office.
53.       The expected commissioning dates for Suralaya units 3 and 4 are June
1988 and March 1989. The construction of the distribution facilities included
in the project is scheduled to be completed by the middle of 1987. The imple-
mentation schedule for the Suralaya units is based on an award decision on the
contract for steam generators by June 30, 1984; proposals have already been
received and are under evaluation. Since this is a critical step for the
timely implementation of the project, signing of this contract will be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Institutional Aspects
54.       Over the past ten years, PLN has grown impressively to become the
largest utility in the country. Inevitably, such a rate of growth has been
attained at the cost of considerable strain on PLN's management. Key areas in
which a need for strengthening has been recognized as a condition of maintain-
ing the growth are management development, including corporate planning and
project management, manpower development, and accounting and budgeting.
55.       In all of these areas appropriate technical assistance has been
devised in consultation with the Bank, and in most cases is supported with
Bank funds. Regarding PLN's overall planning activities, the planning process
for its development program had not been supported by complementary demand
analysis and manpower and financial planning.  To address this problem, PLN
set up a corporate planning unit in 1981 and a market survey unit in 1982.
Further institutional improvement in the market survey area and training for
senior planning staff is proposed in parallel with the present project. Under
the project, GOI will establish procedures to ensure coordination of the rele-
vant agencies in providing policy guidance to and in reviewing and approving
the demand forecasts prepared by PLN's power market survey group. A draft of
these procedures would be furnished to the Bank for comment by December 31,
1984 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). PLN has also, as agreed in
the context of past projects, begun to prepare a rolling ten-year financial
forecast and financing plan based on its long-term investment program (see
para. 59 below). The manpower development planning issue has been addressed



- 20 -
under a number of Bank-supported projects; of particular note is the Twelfth
Power Project (Loan 2214-IND), which includes a major training component
focussed on reorganizing and enlarging PLN's manpower development planning,
training and personnel management functionls for middle- and lower-level staff.
56.       In the project management area, the Bank financed, under the Eighth
Power Project (Loan 1708-IND), technical assistance which specifically
addresses all aspects of project management. The project cost and progress
reporting system recommended is now being implemented. The Bank has also
assisted PLN in developing an integrated management information system,
including improved accounting and financia2l management information systems.
In all these works, local counterpart staff assignment has been emphasized in
order to ensure the transfer of know-how, and effective maintenance of the
system by local staff once the systems are installed for operation. Finally,
to strengthen PLN's engineering capabilities, under the proposed project PLN
will take steps to unify project formulation, engineering, design, procurement
and construction monitoring under an Engineering Services Center in accordance
with an agreed action plan (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Aspects
57.       Concurrent with PLN's incorporation irn 1]972, measures were taken
with the support of the Bank Group to establish a sound financial basis for
the organization, and to eliminate the operating losses which were then being
incurred. This was achieved by 1976. During the period 1979/80 through
1983184, PLN self-financed 14% of its capitial program, mainly from deprecia-
tion and consumers' contributions. Borrowing accounted for 33% of the
program, but the major source of funding was the GOI equity contribution,
which was about 53% of the program. As a result of this mix of funding, PLN's
debt/equity ratio is still quite low at about 25/75. Its latest balance sheet
shows a healthy current ratio of 2.2 and substantial liquidity. From May 1980
to M1arch 1984, tariffs have been adjusted uLpwards four times.  However, the
magnitudes of these tariff adjustments have not only been inadequate to cover
cost increases other than the oil price impact on PLN's fuel bills, but they
have also lagged behind the fuel price increases. PLN's net income has,
therefore, declined steadily in the last four years. Three major financial
aspects: (i) power tariffs; (ii) investment financing; and (iii) financial
performance, are discussed below.
58.       Power Tariffs.  In 1979, GOI and PLN agreed under the Seventh Power
Project (Loan 1513-IND) that the tariff structure for electricity should
reflect long-run marginal cost (LRMC) as closely as possible; satisfactory
changes were implemented in May 1980. Since the tariff increases in the past
three years after the May 1980 adjustment were effected entirely through
energy charges without appropriate adjustments in demand charges, they have
resulted in distorting the tariff structure. PLN is now completing, as agreed
under the Thirteenth Power Project (Loan 2300-IND), a study of its cost and
tariff structure. Based on the results of this study, and after consultation
with GOI and the Bank, PLN is expected to adjust its tariff structure to bet-
ter reflect the LRMC of electricity supply. During negotiations, an agreement
was reached that PLN will carry out an annual review of its tariff level and
review its LRMC periodically. PLN will review the results of the tariff level



- 21 -
study with GOI and the Bank before the end of each calender year (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       Investment Financing.  The size of PLN's planned capital expendi-
tures and the budgetary constraints facing GOI in the near term, indicate that
it would be imprudent for PLN to count on receiving a large proportion of its
funding in the form of GOI equity as in the past. The study of PLN's financ-
ing policy by the Government's three banking advisors (Lazard Freres, S. G.
Warburg & Co. Ltd. and Kuhn Loeb Lehman Brothers International, Inc.) also
shares the view that PLN's long-term objective should be to minimize
Government equity funding when loan financing could be used instead. The
possibility of a limited amount of funding through bond issues also needs to
be considered. As agreed under earlier Bank loans, PLN has begun to prepare a
rolling ten-year financial forecast based on its proposed development program
and a financing plan for the first five years, as part of its corporate
planning procedures. The financial forecast and financing plan are adopted by
PLN's Board and discussed with GOI and the Bank. These practices would be
continued under the proposed project (Section 4.06 of the draft Project
Agreement). In addition, as mentioned above (para. 36), the Government has
agreed to review with PLN and the Bank, PLN's financial forecasts and
financing plan and to facilitate PLN's access to all possible sources of
required finance.
60.       Financial Performance.  Under earlier Bank loans, various covenants
have been adopted to monitor PLN's financial performance. The choice of
monitoring criteria varied as PLN's financial circumstances changed. During
the financial recovery period, 1972/73 through 1976/77, a cost recovery
covenant was used. In 1976, PLN adopted cash generation targets using a
three-year moving average self-financing ratio (SFR). The SFR targets have
been revised from time to time, since they are subject to changes in the event
of significant variation of PLN's capital expenditures and fuel costs. The
necessity to modify the SFR targets indicates that this type of covenant is
now less appropriate to PLN's circumstances than before. The Bank has
suggested the adoption of the financial rate of return on revalued assets
(ROR) as a key measure to monitor PLN's financial performance. This view is
also shared in the recently completed independent study by the Government's
banking advisors. During negotiations, agreements were reached that: (i) PLN
will take all measures required to realize a 6% ROR in 1985/86 and an 8% ROR
in each fiscal year beginning 1986/87, and will, before December 31 of each
year, review the adequacy of its tariff to permit meeting this requirement;
(ii) PLN will prepare a report on the methodology to be used for asset revalu-
ation and furnish it to the Bank for review by December 31, 1984; and
(iii) PLN will carry out an annual revaluation of its assets for the purpose
of ROR calculation from 1985/86 onwards in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 4.04 and 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement). The existing debt
limitation covenant binding PLN to a minimum of 1.5 times debt service cover-
age ratio (on forecast net revenues) will continue under the proposed loan to
ensure PLN's prudent debt management (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
61.       PLN's general consumer accounts receivable position has been kept at
about one and a half months of annual billings, which is satisfactory.



- 22 -
Collections from Government users, however, have not been satisfactory. Thus
far, Government account arrears have been reduced from over one year to about
five months.  PLN and MME have taken further actions jointly with the
Ministries of Finance, Defense and Home Affairs t:o expedite payments to PLN.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that it would take all
action necessary to ensure that amounts owed PLN bv Government agencies in
aggregate will be maintained at less than two monthis of the total billings to
such agencies. An action plan to reduce thes outstanding Government accounts
receivable to the agreed level was reviewed and agreed upon during negotia-
tions,. PLN also agreed to keep records of the collections from Government
users adequately disaggregated so that the source of any overdue payment
problems can be identified (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Future Finances
62.       In January 1984, the Government not only removed the subsidies on
the fuels PLN consumes (see para. 28 above), but in fact increased the prices
of diesel and residual fuel oil even beyond international prices for resource
mobilization purposes. To compensate for the increase in PLN's fuel expenses,
a tariff increase of 32% was needed, which wlas approved effective March 1,
1984. As this tariff increase was not adequate to compensate for increases in
PLN's costs due to factors other than the fuel price rise, e.g., inflation and
increasing provision for depreciation (see para. 57 above), PLN is expected to
incur operating losses in both 1983/84 and 1984/8.. It is estimated that a
further tariff increase of the order of 16% will be needed before April 1,
1985, for PLN to achieve the 6% ROR objective in 1985/86.  The financial per-
formance expected of PLN in 1984/85 is considered acceptable, recognizing
that:  (i) the bold ste   taken to raise fuel prices were in the larger
interest of the sector;'/ (ii) a larger electricity tariff adjustment
immediately following the fuel price increases was not considered feasible;
and (iii) both the Government and PLN have accepted the ROR as the financial
performance monitoring criterion and have made a commitment to achieve the
agreed financial objectives.
63.       Achievement of an 8% ROR will result in improving PLN's self-
financing ratio from 13% in 1984/85, to 18% in 1985/86, 25% in 1986/87, and to
a minimum of 30% from 1987/88 through the end of the decade. The SFR will be
regularly monitored to ensure that PLN's self-financing capability will be
maintained at satisfactory levels. The ROR and SFR targets for years beyond
1986/87 will be reviewed in light of the findings of the study of the LRMC of
supply now in progress and a detailed review of PLN's investment program
planned for 1984/85, in order to determine ii- these targets need adjustment to
reflect efficiency pricing or PLN's finiancial requirements.
64.       During the period 1984/85 through 1988/89, PLN is expected to self-
finance about 24% of its capital expenditures, with the remainder financed
7/   The savings for GOI in terms of reductions in budgetary subsidy due to
the January 1984 fuel price increase are estimated at about US$1.6
billion in 1984/85.



- 23-
from borrowings (54%) and equity (22%). Its debt/equity rat_0 (a.1i..c
revaluation surplus) will increase from about 35165 in 1984/85 ;o s
48/52 by 1988/89, and the annual debt service coverage ratio will rSamaii:-
above 2.5 times throughout the period. This projected performance *s aatis-
factory.
Benefits and Risks
65.       The extension of the Suralaya power station is the least cost next
step in Indonesia's power development program. The internal economi c rate of
return (IERR) of the overall investment program at the prevailing tariff is
about 12%.  In addition, the disaggregated IERR has been worked out for the
Suralaya and Jabotabek subcomponents of the project. The economnic rate of
return for the Suralaya units is worked out by taking the costs of
construction, operation and maintenance for the project as well as the invest-
ment required in transmission and distribution network for transmitting its
output to the consumers. The revenue to PLN at the prevailing average tariff
of US¢ 9.8 per kWh is taken as the benefit.  On this basis thie  EIRR works out
to 28%. The IERR will drop to 26% if the project costs escalate by 10%, Tne
IERR is high because: (a) the project is one of the low cost elements of the
investment program, and (b) some of the infrastructure costs have already been
incurred at the time of construction of units 1 and 2.
66.       The economic rate of return for the Jabotabek distribution projects
is worked out by taking the revenue to PLN at the prevailinag ariif as a
measure of the benefits, for the estimated incremental sales that would result
from this investment.  The levelized costs for supply from the grid, both for
capacity and energy, were estimated from the investment program and included
in the costs along with the construction, operation and maintenance costs. On
this basis, the IERR for the Jabotabek project works out to 20%. The IERR
will drop to 17% if the project costs increase by 10%,  The benefits are
understated in these calculations because the consumer surplus is ignored.
For distribution in East and Central Java, each subproject will have an IERR
above 10%.
67.       The Suralaya project is a continuation of the ongoing project
financed by the Eighth and Ninth Power Projects (Loans 1708-IN-D and 1872-IND,
respectively); the experience with these projects has confirmed that there are
no substantial technical risks associated with the project. There Ls,
however, a risk of delay in the project for several reasons, viz, delay in
finalizing the critical steam generator contract, constraints on local funds
or inefficiency in implementation. The first two are being covered by
suitable understandings with PLN and GOI (paras. 48 and 53)0  Regarding the
last, PLN has gained considerable experience in the management of such a
project in the last few years and now has a competent project management team
backed by consultants who are in place. There is no unusual risk associated
with the proposed distribution component of the project.
68.       PLN carries insurance on equipment and materials in transit,  Fire
and other hazards are self-insured.  In view of the geographical spread of
PLN's assets, this policy has been accepted by the Bank. However, some very
large projects currently under implementation would resuli in a greater



- 24 -
concentration of assets in certain areas than in the past. Therefore, GOI/PLN
propose to initiate a review of the risks and adequacy of PLN's insurance
procedures.
Environmental Considerations
69.       The design of the Suralaya steam power plant has taken into account
the requirement that the environmental impact of the operation of the plant at
its fully developed capacity of 3,100 MW, should not exceed internationally
accepted norms. In particular, electrostatic precipitators with a particulate
removal efficiency of 99.5% are provided to prevent ash and dust particles
from polluting the environment. A stack height of 200 meters has been
selected to ensure that the ground level concentration of sulphur dioxide and
nitrogen oxides will not exceed the limits laid down by the US Environmental
Protection Agency regulations. The distribution schemes will be designed and
carried out in accordance with current technological practices and will cause
minimum disturbance to the environment. No safety hazards are foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTUUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PLN and the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan are the execution of
a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PLN and
the signing of contracts for the steam generators Eor Suralaya Units 3 and
4. Other special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 25, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-25                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESLA                              REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       19701b  ESTIMA;T/b         ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. ANERICA I CARIB
ARE (TlMtSAIID SQ. EM)
TOTAL                               1919.3      1919.3       1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                         266.0       307.1        317.3
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     90.0       150.0        530.0             1028.6                    2088.2
ENMY COlUNEION FPR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0       143.0        266.0              792.8                    1407.6
POPIlATION AND VITAL STATIStICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   94680.0    116201.0    149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         14.6        17.1         20.6               32.9                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         49.3        60.5         76.2              260.7                      35.6
4                    PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             355.9       378.4        461.2             1696.5                      93.2
POPULATION AGE STRbLiTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           40.7        44.0         39.8               39.4                      40.1
15-64 YRS                           56.2        53.4         57.1               57.2                      55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5         3.1                 3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATF (2)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0          2.3                2.3                       2.3
URBAN                                3.7         3.6          4.0                3.9                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          45.8        40.7         34.6               31.3                      31.5
CRUDE DEATU RATE (PER THOUS)          22.5        17.2        13.1                 9.6                       8.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8         2.7          2.2                2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..       181.1       3051.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         0.2        36.0                46.6
FOOD MSD NDTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         93.0       102.0       122.0               125.2                     113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)        86.0        94.0       110.0               114.2                     111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            38.0        42.0        49.0                57.9                      67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           6.0         6.0          7.0/c             14.1                      34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           22.9        16.9         13.7                7.6                       5.3
EAbLTE
LIFE FXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2        47.3         53.5               60.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        149.9       120.9       105.0                68.1                      62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0         23.0               37.1                      64.8
URBAN                                 ..        10.0        41.0                54.8                      77.8
RURAL                                 *-         1.0         18.0               26.4                      44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
Cl OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        15.0         23.0               41.4                      54.6
URBAN                                 ..        19.0         20.0               47.5                      69.8
RURAL                                 ..        14.0         24.0               33.4                      29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          46780.0      26510.0     11530.0              7771.9                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4510.0/f   7680.0       2300.0              2462.6                    1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1360.0      1650.0       1610.0/d           1047.2                     477.0
URBAN                              250.0          ..        700.07d            651.1                     667.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..      3160. 07d          2591.9                    1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        22.4/e             27.0                      27.2
HOlS}NG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4         4.8
URBAN                                4.9         5.3
RURAL                                4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NO. OP PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                            1.5
URBAN                                 *.         1.6
RURAL                                            1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
…--  - - - - - - - -  -   -…-- -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



_26.                                                       ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
lb          /b  RECENT  lb          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970- ESTIMATE-             ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AP{ERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     71.0         77.0         98.0               101.2                      105.0
MALE                     86.0         83.0        104.0                106.0                      106.3
FEMALE                   58.0         71.0         91.0                 97.5                      103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      6.0         15.0         28.0                44.9                       40.0
MALE                      10.0        20.0         33.0                 50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                    3.0         10.0         22.0                 44.6                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            20.4         22.1         15.5                 18.5                       34.u
PUPIL-TEAC{ER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         29.0         34.0                 32.7                      30.7
SECONDARY                            14.0         13.0         16.0                 23.4                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                39.0         56.6         62.0/&               72.9                       79.5
COIISUMPTION
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP             1.1          2.1          3.8/g                9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             7.2        21.9         42.4                113.7                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.1           0.8         9.6                 50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               11.0           ..         17.7/d               54.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         2.8           ..          0.8/c                3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUS)           34791.0      41090.0      53604.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     27.8         30.9         29.2                33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0         66.0         55.0                 50.9                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    8.0         10.0         15.0                19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.4         35.9                 36.6                      31.3
MALE                                 54.2         49.5         51.1                 50.7                      49.8
FEMALE                               20.0         21.6         20.8                26.6                       14.b
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2           1.3         1.2                  1.1                        1.4
INCOME OISTRIWUTIOf
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..          ..         23.5/d              22.2
HIGHEST 20D  OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..         49.47-'             48.0
LOWEST 204 OF HiOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..          6.6/d                6.4
LOWEST 40Z OF UOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         14.47d              15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        136.0Jg             194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..        112.0I              155.0                      184.5
L STIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        119 O/g             178.0                      519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         98.0               164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATEU POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                   ..          ..         28.O/g              24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         51.07               41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1917; Id 1976; /e 1975; If 1962; lg 1978.
May 1983



-27 -                                                                  ANNEX  I
________OFSOCALINDCAOR                                                          Page            3    of        5    pages
Ntiota:  Aisboogh the dancer. dran from  source. ge-srely jedged the aei at orain sd relieble, it ohoud  le  a  oedIi.int:   ayotbe  nenuoal
comarale  oose.If the lack of standardized deii tion   en -n t.cep. 4 by dIfferntcostio  Ia  olete tedat.   Thet dan-  ar- tnoeeo   afs1t
dsrbe oders ofmgitd,indicaIte .. meds, and charsta-tee certin sajor dMIffr -ne   baamoo-                        ie
sojec tcatyIoetfr"1bIcm"Olfpeae  gru   ttrMideIncom   betlh Africa sod nidala test  Is chOs   batausa of --otu  ooa-toa
aftntea. in th  refarnc-  goudt  the .soor..go  ste population eecgbced"itheiic assn  fore.                   oiao   o   no  onyIall oIcaoIny ofomcctpiooa
gr_p h.e dais for I st ltd tostor.   Iote the  Ioeag f --,atotsaon.               h -M Indictrdsreonheaalhyofenodte cntr,cttOnatb
ecercimed  tn od  in   neae  ofonldice-o to soother.  Th...nargs                   Ien  ony   Iseu  ioopaug the a-la  ofon   loica                   I a l   con  t7  oret   n
MEA  (thb..sand eq.As.)                                                                              Pooaic rPncoo    ooatndtoidsd  bytah                         ro,ruion
-Ttnsi surf.-c  area  -omrting  .lad area and  nad L     esterd    lOAd,                       oY.icia.   _ol ifd ta   a  s oI shoo  ata.e.e teeni -
1970 sod  9R0 data.                                                                              Peuuto   e  t..reo  liro               odIII  dtuidsd by eamb- of preofIicig
Osroulura  -tenmat  o  act~ctoal   r~  oedtayorrtl  e  pemaonty          mle  nd  emle  rada s ntsn,  solcan   nuco, yanica  naeaeuP
197  and 1981 date.                                                                             f9h!4y.J!p51ld - tend . ora .cd cuul-Pcuanunlonl
urho.ndorlV iooded by the,ir  o patien"bco7                eta  buds
INP PER CAPITA (Usl  -                                                                                                                               IM   e   aiaoostea   orn    otnpia,aalbei   oltsdpisniorlad spocclied  copt ca1 and
ceclrdby  am   tOcr tc  eio  as7rdiotAls( 9-81 basis);                                         rnaitccocntr.  'A-itualal  are "Talsaecccettl    tfs
196,   70, an  181 dats.                                                                          byb et least oo.   yla.fE-abliehsucrs procldiog prIncipally cetudia1
cramntittodad.  Rura- hspt hl,   -ooo, inalde halibh and,.
toggl  COpStiftPLfl PlTR CAPITn -  -ccua  appsno .     n...   c  c   cseia ...d..al reno-eno1 net  -ecItoly etaffad hyA  troOa  )b,o hyaadice
rni_areorc   Icoa  and IlIgIte, "Itruls , naurl               ."n  hydra-  no1-a                     acleaII,coo, sidufe, etc.) ohion of fIIt-elerstasoinad
and geoth.-eI  I.-cticlt ) Iokilograms of h-    eulclo  ye  cpIta;                                    prnnIdea  lat.tad nenga of ..dic.    aiIIe,ttsa iF.             tios  pIrpus-
1960, 1970, ..d 1980 dais.                                                                           ob   heepituls Icclod   glNd  Principal(general. heapiltle, .m4 rusi
PtOPULAT.ION ANDe VITAL STATISTICS                                                                      yscialeaI     oai  ni  are9 i inidod Iol    Inerttl
Toa Itpltu. oid-o.enithouIa-d- -. usIf July 1; 1960, 1970, and 190)1PM.lIeton   e   tcis   o      oa   ohco delemlona tooc1 diechorgee
m                       dana.~~~~ from  h.pyltale dlocded bY tho ccei- af  ad..
diffenenc defnnt    c  of uhacres  soytaffect comparbility of Outs                             0005108
amn  -otriee  1960, 1970, and 101dt.OeaeSiot of H-usheld IIcarso   con hooa_dt                                                                         ttl   roc   n         a
pouaIon.                                                                                                         ,   :Ab.I to year 2101 - Correct  "PoylnonI oen   oebsd 00 W 190  n  their sol  acute. 0    Iura  o Mo  soY or euco  be Inluded in
toaYeta  o   by  geao  "e   n   cInotly  codte t tc                                    th. heoeod IntotuicaI pocyooc
Itpiaure leosl . and femal  IIeI oyrtar              itahltitg .c ,7.s                           dul iee             I.socol y.  itlig    uld    o-anoet ...ucIurI  and
year..  The pananner  for fenillcy rat  aLso be t Ie   oe                                         eroldpru
asaing de-lene to forltiy accrd log to 1oct.. 1-1e and poet t.imly                          Ere         l c  ...teto.. (E o "utt"'     dolheb.-cil   c.  and nu...l -
plning.   pe .o..ce.  tact  uncoy Is then asscoe  one of thes  citeCntntoc  deoll log  tIthentnccy ol  tno forcars. es penc-tule
cobInat. Ion  of -nortaiy  Io et11cted   oryoete   opse                                           f         -oal,  rha. adcnldm   nen.pc
Stcenlee.ro As_o.rlet-Iaontaypyolno   here Is    groth
toce the hinth rate t  equal to the deth rat,,sd also the1g1 c..C.lt
structue  creatsonston.  ThuIs hacceted onl  often  fetility eseeo-oA edInolmen  ato
dcIne co the neplcemeo  1ud  of ..I  nt -        erdI     lt  ae   oe                          Prler  shol    to..sleat.fmae                        ..rc   ocal  solo cod fessLe
eachgeea to If omcnyae   itsef ...socly.  The sttoayere  mt   fsl ags  t the yriaecc 1-cr  us pocoae   f r.sportIce
Po.tno   le  a   siundo   o   aIef the crolocced  -trttn                                           p oyshe-l-ap    po-atos           .ttelI1 ttoe   childnnn egid 6-Il
fertility rot  tornlu -eent_e_o..cooeleithhI-toena                                                                                       -otntoeo a --uYecL=a   LOG ye-cen
Year stat.n..   poouco   It   . reeho  - The year ahen sotioo..ry                                    stc   aePopl   r   ou   n  i              o           1ffn     e"heoI age
iouittoseeill herahd.                                                                     S-codany eho  -tII.   sole cr0 foc..a -.  bopoe           .aoo; s....nd.cy
toiolotto    Isnlyeotcorq--nat Iss ...I on- yoars of ...ro-td prlaany iarcte
tnm.a.- Old-year populatIon Par sqo ir ...oet-  (100 hec-aes  ofprton                                       ssl,oaica   onetbenrangIcictootn
toa 1oe~ 960. 1070, and 1980 data.                                                          pupo`iI`usually`of  2 t  11yano         Ig;cretod  o   ero   r
Pen so  Am. ariculnnal lad -Coapuned an ohue fccaglcltcl.lad                                  generl lyetod
oly; 1960  1970 end 19cc dat.                                                                'oe-o' ccimetIenr                     of tan,darcl-hrci          lncnntt
PuPc1.ni-t Ae  Srctr   (y  et) - Childro  (h-I4 yeaoel, outklng-ago  (15-                            enc1ude technIca,IndsrIl  on -the   p             .u.a. chi.h operte i,depid-
64yar)  -od retIre   (A  yor  and  -co) 0  yrcooue   of d-yeat                                     ently or Ae Onpac-att  of e-odany itiioht
poulton  16,  1970, anid lOtI data.                                                       tntI-ce-rhs- rato         i crcr.. and se.roodatn-loTol Itodett  strolled  c
P_uano :~Inten  taco I cemen) - tonal - Penoal croach rate  ofona  aid-                             pr1r-cdacodn            .ltl  divided hy  hutr   f  ercttondcr
yea  pycettto  U906,  907, ecd 1970-81.                                                       repodlglels
Craeurid      er yeBrh t.     r  tuadthOoA   IociI   e    I- -uod of sid-
ye.  pPuaio;1960. 1970, and 1981 dona.                                                        CIOSOOfyTION
Crnde Teah Rune (yen thootand) - M.tul deanh  yen hhouaad of ned-yea..eno   as(e   hoo1   ocato)-P tte    eacare    oo
popaton;1960. £971, and 1981 dat,ce   entgla   htrgtycot   oldeal  ace   ore   a
he Iomareidota    ero   fsh   teiecayneo   genfeloedtteoch                                                   le   hamo    oolto(      1   yyoo   echeeto   ai
fertility raec.   sell   inye              Ronao   ndi.. In 190, 1970, and                         hrnadcutog Ieo   n,.l Ic per 'hcadofpclt.o;_cideun
1981.                                                                                              llemdccie , i  concts d In yoarn  ,                                  Intetta tfna:di
FasilnyPlOo-Io-Octem   onol(hoad)-onAl nIino   fccpomet                                                        Ic effect; Oonc for core   Yr-a naY no  be camyscble ainr-e
of  irhcutldentto  uencu rite  of catta  famIly PIatINocunre  obolshed licens.In..
pno9eam.                                                                TtOctelteos  (per thoossod  yeooiotlot)-Ttcetn~~~~~~TV r. ~  i-Ion. fc brud dut no
Femily Plott ingU-er   (yecr-   of norrlodoomec) - PerengeoI                on e.e-nlph I   e   hoor   opf                                 -In;rtlden ucIltteo   TVraceIeecs
nomsnfchil-hratcgog   1)5li ponul  hoou-hlr-cottl-         ecce  to!1                   incootin ",.Pt  oycuut,glnoi                         Tio-teca   bnetft-
oil macr ld-on-oc i    g,e aII- gIu                                                          icuur.otr Clnci d,ic    po   tuooyrlant      nu   h   or
P100 dli 01/71 IT Iho                                                                       n-ttlo  icp  dl,  ma,   ttrnt   o                    -oe  .1 -n-nd000yeldl
blo   o  rodPrdottt  en(oin   191-7-lI)     (onofye  cylo                obliotli  Ouocoycnan Iyf   tt   il   oonilcot.Itfaonldno
anul.fWRIdoT,c                                                                                                                     t-l(or-sloee  rdcaonlieaedo  ct    alyI   nyrc   olau   cnOo      mk
coffee ocd tea ane cot icled).    - dogg-o-gade.yco docit  fouhcecr   is                 soll  co~lts.i   1
hued  onctlcad        ong  produc-c ynde oclyhts                  ry1-1  A191-0, sod-Y 1981                                                                      ~  .b   I
deta.                                                                                 10000 P~~hi10CC       I,I,    -          ILIi81   r-i    iI...,
yooiemA-i cnla.b       aol.cd  ae   nyyaoeta  cnsfcnrmlOrtctceletn l - talon.  .1fI ccetIt tomg  fonestyI. h.nt. c.t
a-cenIIy and health.I cusdrntnc etc -nomeoo  teapen--re  hoy omichne.                                fiahltg Ae pceogof ti-l labor forc; 196h0, 111 aiu  1181 d"tI
ago an  .ec di-irb-tIon of papulotion, and cIloi,,g II yor--  fnnur            e                    odeto  potet  - (ahtr tort  In olcIng, --ntn-tnic ...              ifcn..  t
at ho-hold 1enel  1961-At. 190/  end1980 data,                                                       an  oltc onicty  toercd  u  00  eenog  of cocci labor to-c; 1 960,
Fsr "e,"tn   uolcf pr-cef  (orme-         cs - pconeloo--eonf erc-pirta71 lyladl0198 na
n   sp,;plyo  fn  ye  Iey    e  sop'lc c  fod le defined se abt.-                             yraItclntI   tcoI       pren  I- Itoal  na. ad In-la - yero£tyeopio  s
gequeemete focall  nontIea eablihe  hy 7000 p-ocde Eon mtieio                               Ott lllpcao  oe  opoo  as-told ,          cab ..I adf.,   o bc   oca
alloae..e.  of0grassat  ona  proteIn yen dcc ood 21 cram  If IacAl an                              y otoeaof Ica, tale and fonle porontion of all uge  eyen-ey
nuln  coolo  of atich  10 ermset bl.h cnaai            yosl    Thes                                1160  190, at   901 det-   Th.ne ac!on         Wo,.½yetnycioce
etadeoo at lnernha  nhaoIf71oaefttl proneoiuo 2Zi11 g-aorfldlgaoecertueo  thePop.cIu,ad I.no   Ioo tren.M                                                               A
nfutee  yn Itaoaorg    o  tIn oftnh d,  pnooed bcydIi0th                                        f     .u.tiuo  one fcontoaltots
ThOrd   od ro S-utr; 1961-65, 1907  atd 180  da.                                                 -cnmctned-cc  sa.l  -`garb  ot Porolanf- odor 10 sod 65 aind oroca
per cc       nct  nuIyfo  ata   t  y.lo-  yntlo supply of fend                                       Ill toaI    bo0    tne
dorloed from  etalad poIses It grass yen day; 1961-65, 197f and 1877
Chld(sa   -4)otti ten(per thusood) - nn-ul deotho yen fhn-o-At  cn                             Pecongeo  ynioco 1--a  Ith Ittoo,tAiot   Alto) - BOnI-td hy ricth-s  5
aes, On-p I-A yean-,' to chldc_  Ithi. aRe groop; for noet deneIci,g                                pucn ,cceT.`11 lItroIt, P-or-a  llecr.                  M n  pooceoc 40 p,oteo  of
inotlsdata dertood  fna  life  tables; 1960, 1970 otd 1981 dats.                            thoseho1da,
Liebettaca   Ott(en)- A-ncan  ,-bnhe  of years of life  eaou                                       Id  folloulo-  051 tioe  aetn-apolat   csco   fpceoy-                     boe 
onbirth; 1980. 1970 -cd 1981 date,                                                                 shul ,b Iiet-      tnr    itPr-lralncZtln
yer of age Porthocud leon htrts; 19h1, 197.ad1981 dan.                                             Absolie- poncry100    ea  Incatlooloo                  -SIn ahich a . sItea
arcoss of Sofo "tace  (pce'   c o~f roostool - tote, unhat. adrural --ntrltoon&ly cdnua   dl ato  yI-entiltofodnoorcnsi   o
rlae  cfP popi (tonl,ocat  and nuulldsnteeascsI-ecLesate  Iaf                                   affudarle
am nn suply   incudonoreaod o htac  soces oroctoate  bu                                felae retan Ic  rocry  (o            -1m I.l.to  . 1110  ye  caIta  - ua  andnut.
oonttcnp  oltn( acye creotaes of cllnnoacoctce popoitios   It I en                      ..noa  I...... nf the cotny.  Tut len1 lo denlccd ft. ushs  -ur1
orbseareaapobllc  f-tcoin o  stt               -- octd too noeha  1000 -atrs                       ln  clothodj-a.oent fon high-c toi  of lotog, in  -baoarI          e
from  a   -c  soy bectide-e  ao holn  iobi  r..a.onat1 Aeeoem   of thin                           steatdIrnlothnt floic  M-ilo-  Potto  itt-o  totei- y rcn                    b.-un
hous    Iinoa   neactechet              -s old ioply otot the  oaof   r                            en   ue      oc        fpryol-tlo  (oct00 and r-cal  uho.r    bsl
sembecu uf the housnhold do roII      en   yed   troottns   ato
Orh.t  toy tccet  Ol-yo. u h pcot  nyylain                  ni    ctt   n
sac Includ  the colc Inad dIuposal , aith on uhotta  traneent,Iof                                                                       tIna   Ited Sloid  lana Dit,icon
hamsneonecaeo   aec             byae   hyo rtbn-hon  nYnt-   or itho  -  of pIn                                                    trnai       .1aysln and Pn-)ecc..n  epar-tmt
Prlo        iieac lmtra Inclftn.ty 1903



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 28 -
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                Annual growth rate (%) /a
current prices)                                Actual                             Estimated projected
Indicator                              1982           1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b            90,216          5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7        6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1    4.5        5.5    4.7
Agriculture                        23,703         0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4.9         1.8    3.0    3.5    2.0
Industry                           34,638         5.6   11.1   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -6.9    5.6    8.1              5.3
Services                           31,875        10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.2    4.8
Consumption                          73,377          6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.2    0.5    3.9    3.0
Gross investment                     20,373         14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -5.4    4.0    4.0
Exports of GNFS                      20,189        -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -12.0   13.9    6.4    4.8
Imports of GNFS                      23,723         11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1          2.9   -7.4        -   -1.3
Gross national savings               13,877       -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -22.6   14.6    9.8    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                            166    190    214    238    315    407    448    504    585    644    695
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    910
Share of GDP at market prices (%)
(at current prices)                             Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9        8.4        7.4        4.4         4.9
Agriculture                      54      47      32      25      25      23         2.7         4.1        3.3        3.4         3.7
Industry                         14      18      34      43      39      40         5.2       12.0         9.8        3.7        5.2
Services                         32      35      35      32      36      37         4.8        9.7         9.5        5.9        5.5
Consumption                      91      89      79      71      74      73         4.1        8.4         9.2        4.7        4.8
Gross investment                   8      14     20      21      22      22         4.8        18.3       12.2        6.4         5.4
Exports of GNFS                  13      13      23      31      27      26         3.6         9.2        2.9        1.8        4.4
Imports of GNFS                 -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -21              3.2        22.1       14.0        3.3        4.1
Gross national savings            8       9      17      26      22      23         6.1       23.1        14.2        1.5        5.8
As % of GDP
1960                1970                1975                1980                 1982
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                  11.7                 10.].               17.4                22.5                 20.8
Current expenditures                             14.0                  8.4                 9.9                12.8                 13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                       -2.3                +1.6                 +7.5                +9.7                +7.7
Capital expenditure                               n.a.                 5.0                11.3                13.0                 8.0
Foreign financing                                 0.2                  3.5                 3.7                 3.3                  0.3
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                               4.5               7.6               7.1              4.5               5.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                    2.4               5.1               4.7              2.4               2.8
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                2.2              11.2              11.0              1.5/d             4.9
ICOR                                                     2.2               2.2               3.3              5.3               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30              0.48              0.28             0.28/e            0.30/e
Import elasticity                                        1.2               2.8               0.84             0.75              0.84
/a  At constant 1973 prices for 1975-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-85.
7-b At market prices.
7Tc Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Td  1981-85.
7_e For the last year of the period.
East Asia and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



ARM  I
Page 5 of 5 pages
Population    :  152.6 million (aid-1982)                          - 29 -
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estinate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMEINTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEOT
(Millioma US$ at current prices)
Actual                                    Estimated ProJected
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982    19          984     1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/a
1.  Exports                              10,861   11,353   18,510   22,885   22,994   18,637  19,730   21,238   22,698   44,832
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)             7,354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   14,743  14,560   15,422   15,942   31,028
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507     3,979    6,171    5,587    4,170    3,894   5,170    5,816    6,756   13,804
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,572  -22,341 -19,973  -20,669  -21,957  -39,114
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -4,802  -4,730   -4,876   -4,801   -9,035
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,561  -15,824 -13,843  -14,384  -15,865  -28,520
(c}  NFS (net)                        -536      -586   -1,237   -1,702   -2,604   -1,715  -1,400   -1,409   -1,291   -1,559
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    5,305    5,296         422   -3,703    -243         569       742    6,718
4.  Factor servicea                        -865   -1,015   -3,106   -3,165   -3,442   -3,705  -4,080   -4,360   -4,823   -8,408
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -485      -635      -724      -977   -1,161  -1,179   -1,432   -1,664   -2,398
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -530   -2,471   -2,441   -2,465   -2.544  -2,901   -2,928   -3,159   -6,010
4                                    5.  Capital grants                            66        46        52        76        67       105       95       100       110       150
6.  balance nn current account             -624   -1,109      2,251    2,207   -2,953   -7,303  -4,228   -3,691   -3,972   -2,540
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       142       311      234       400       500       800
8.  Public M 6 LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956     1,638    1,939    2,864    2,566    4,250   4,991    5,108    5,186    6,120
(b)  Amortization                     -825      0977   -1,335       -987   -1,001   -1,148  -1,541   -1,937   -2,231   -4,234
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       660       604    1,877      1,565    3,102   3,450    3,171        2,955     1,886
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       888   -1,382   -1,488         258       540   2,223        -49       638       521
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736          988    3,350  -1,679          71      -121      -667
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354         3,004   4,683    4,612    4,733    5,640
Reserves in sn.ths nf nonnil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.4       6.5       4.4       2.1      3.7       3.5       3.3       2.3
Me.orandud Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
systeo/b                                   -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154    6,321   8,355    8,284    8,405    9,312
Total reserves In months of nonoil
i=ports + NFS                           3.4        4.3      8.1        9.6      7.8        4.3     6.6       6.3       5.9       3.7
EXPERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/c
Gross Diburse-ets                        1,956    2205    1,865    2,536    2,566    4.251
Concess-onal Loans                         442       484       433       659       792       669
Bilateral                             381       448       399       611       718       587
IDA                                    49         29       30        42        69        78
Other                                   12         6         5         6         5         4
Nonconcessional Loans                    1.514    1,721    1,432    1,858        1.774    3.582
Official export credits                  218       271        61        44       165       485
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       314       505
Other multilateral                          16        12        46        52        85       126
Private-source                           1,089     1,270    1,126    1,449    1,210    2,466
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursedld  11,658   13,107   13,234   14,882   15.737   18.426
Official-source                     7i,77    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114   11,129
Private-source                      4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623    7,297
Undiabursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354   12,435
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262   2,06 2    2,100       1,772    1,977    2,308
Interest                              441       514       771       819       977    1,160
Payments as X of exports/l              11.6      18.2      11.3       7.7      8.6       12.4
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(Z)                                     6.3        7.6       6.6       8.2      8.6       9.4
Official-source                          5.6       4.6       5.0       5.5       7.9       9.0
Private-source                           8.6      10.2       8.6      12.3       9.2       9.7
Average Maturity of Ne. Loans
(Years)                                20.5       18.8     18.6       18.6      15.2      15.0
Official-source                        23.8      30.1       24.8     24.4      20.8      20.6
Private-source                           9.1       8.7      11.0       9.9      10.6      10.8
A. 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                                                    40
Maturities due vithin 10 years                                                                                   69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  5.7
/a On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7iW Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks In addition to official reserves.
7W   Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
77  At end of period.
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Axis and Pacific Region
April 26, 1984



ANNEX II
-30-                       Page 1 of 4 page.-.
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 'IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                    Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Nineteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed 876.0    544.1             -
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                      -       14.6       0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                                65.0        -        5.0
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping              13.0        -        0.9
1237  1976   Fourth Education                                37.0       -         2.6
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                              33.0        -        4.6
1337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                              32.0       -         2.3
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                    116.0       -        21.4
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education                19.0       -         3.5
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                               63.0       -        19.7
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                                35.0       -         2.9
1472  1977   Second Population                               24.5       -         6.0
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                            15.0       -         2.2
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I               65.0        -       18.2
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                   94.0       -        25.8
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                      -      40.0        7.2
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                               140.0       -        86.3
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                             31.0       -         8.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                      -      30.0        2.1
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II                65.0       -        40.3
869  1979   Polytechnic                                       -      49.0       18.8
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                              77.0       -        37.9
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                         54.0       -        17.3
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        -      10.0        7.1
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control               50.0       -        26.5
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                    42.0       -         9.7
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                  123.2       -        55.8
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                  50.0       -         3.4
919  1979   Transmigration II                                 -      67.0        8.3
1707  1979   Transmigration II                               90.0       -        87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                   175.0       -        51.5
1709  1979   Second Water Supply                             36.0       -        14.7
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      -      12.0        7.9
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III               99.0       -        50.2
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                    -      45.0       30.0
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



ANNEX II
-31 -                     Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                    Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               -      45.0       22.8
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  -      42.0       34.6
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                           116.0       -        72.2
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV                42.0        -        33.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                   35.0       -        35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                     -      30.0       14.1
1869  1980   Third Population                                 35.0       -        27.0
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                     253.0       -       122.3
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                  46.0       -        35.6
1904  1981   University Development                          45.0        -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                     250.0       -        87.8
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                                22.0       -        15.3
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                        43.0        -        32.2
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V               161.0       -       130.9
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development             106.0       -        13.9
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                         85.0       -        80.1
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                                  170.0       -       127.0
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                     15.0       -        14.5
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                     185,0        -       132.5
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                         100.0       -        76.3
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                         80.0        -        79.6
2102  1982   Second Textbook                                 25.0        -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                            37.0        -        30.2
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                          70.0        -        60.8
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution                 66.0       -        59.5
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI                  68.1        -        65.9
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                     25.0       -        23.3
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                         5.5       -         4.6
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                  300.0        -       286.5
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders VII              154.6        -       152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                                27.0       -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                   22.4        -        22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                             101.0        -        87.8
2258  1983   Public Works Manpower Development               30.0        -        29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                        30.6        -        30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                      208.9        -       195.8
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                               63.5        -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                             107.4        -       107.1



ANNEX II
- 32 -                   Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power                               279.0        -      277.5
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training                      63.3        -       63.1
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder Sugar              79.2        -       75.8
2355  1984   Second Non-Formal Education                     43.0        -       42.9
2375  1984   Second Provincial Irrigation /a                 89.0        -       89.0
Total Bank loans and IDA credits            6,204.1    928.7
Of which has been repaid                     -292.7    -11.3
Total now outstanding                       5,911.4    917.4
Amount sold to third party         28.2
Amount repaid by third party    -28.2          -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA/b            5,911.4    917.4
Total undisbursed                           3,581.2    153.3   3,734.5
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
- 33 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               9.8       1.6      11.4
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9       -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -        1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9       -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia              Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0      0.3        4.3
1984   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             25.0       -        25.0
Total gross commitments                       142.6      19.6      162.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            100.8      6.5      107.3
Total held by IFC                              41.8      13.1       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion) 8.0                    8.0



ANNEX III
- 34                             Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
FOURTEENTH POWER PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    1 year
(b)  Project Prepared by:                    PLN with consultant assistance
(c)  First Presented to the Bank:            June 1983
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:  November 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:             April 1984
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:                  September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Satisfactory plans to supply coal to Suralaya will be made by
June 30, 1986 and implemented in time to ensure adequate supply of
coal to Suralaya (para. 43);
(b) GOI will provide necessary funds through budgetary allocation for
the financing of the project (para. 48);
(c)  GOI will furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1984, draft procedures
to ensure coordination of the relevant departments and agencies in
providing policy guidance to PLN's power market survey group and
reviewing and approving forecasts prepared by such group and, there-
after, carry out such procedures in a timely manner (para. 55);
(d)  PLN will centralize and strengthen its project formulation,
engineering, design, procurement and construction monitoring
activities by establishing an Engineering Services Center as per an
agreed action plan (para. 56);
(e) PLN will carry out an annual review of its tariff level and review
it with GOI and the Bank by December 31 of each year. PLN will also
review the LRMC periodically (para. 58);
(f)  PLN will take all measures required to realize a rate of return of
not less than 6% in 1985/86 and 8% in 1986/87 and thereafter
(para. 60);



ANNEX III
- 35 -                           Page 2 of 2
(g) PLN will prepare a report on revaluation methodology, in consulta-
tion with GOI and the Bank, by December 31, 1984, and carry out an
annual revaluation of net fixed assets for the purpose of calcul-
ating the rate of return from 1985/86 onwards (para. 60);
(h) PLN will maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.5 (para. 60); and
(i)  Government accounts receivable will be reduced to two months of bil-
ling (para. 61).






1BRD 12453 R4
`.THAILAND              14'I N2'                                                                                                                         -14'205                                                                                                                                    4'      l$$0Y       $
t                                             L~~~~~~~~NDONESIA
0500                                                                                                                                      " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES' -  PLN  GEN4ERATING  FACILITIES BY AREAS
MA   AYNA                 S~~~~~~'~oo~        (½o'                e 6a                                                                                                          7 R$540BMACI, 1$53                                                                            ~$454004
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L  54,160
HI                                        *                        JK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-V L AY  I A                                                                                                                                                T-oro    I    --
~~~~ 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~4owol0sr4o  0  /                                                                         1   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM KR                                                        cc0 c                                       
11001$,  'sN  40114514>                                                          1<1~~-K  AI I     A    T1
KOLIA   TIRA           054040044                                                                                                 0           'IN            ~         -                          144       Oo                                        l'ps1fi-k554l
-                                                                                            .*       -                                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-,,~J xFw .   'N,I
IV  Fl$11204              *         111141       <71> [/46T0 N        TAO >pANdA                                                            SUILAWESI                              If ."   400
IV                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  1      RIAN   JA TA--
.  I_,T.j-g4 E-l                                                                                                                                                                                    Of rOO  42
~~400$$Tl$4 ~    ~       JAKRT "$oo$n 11115                                                                                                                                                                                   " e    a
1< ~~                 J A WA 
4411tl  8t              SU.RAWA                                                              I-                                       .                                                                  Me...uke'
411404.-,r0- 
11420*~~~~~~~~~~~0                              lo 20    0    00 5                                                      V
00400441411044Wl404104540001I4l510                                                                                                                                                                   .KSn                         w9                                                                  0     0       0      0      0      0      4
40111 1141010.4 0104104140 14010101111                          ?v 40144I40..42104,.14 044144140






IBRD 17207 R
1060                                                          108°                                                          alo,                                                            112                                                    FEPBRUARY  1984
T, niap Tha b-een prepared by The WorldPlanes slar Ce. (encuon te The enNDOenceno t                                                                                                         ND0NESI A
SUMATERA                    tho -eaders and f,,sn.ule  ten the tra u  at e V/eTh   shank  nd the smaponal                                                                                        FOURTEENTH                  POW ER    PROJECT
rnnn  Cerp-nene  The eenen--hee use .d and Ito hbuoor,n ehe -no tIns nap do eel
-mpo  en tee earl at The World Bar-k a-n the 1ltneha-onal F--oen Corpora-o tee  yd0 dment
ther tep  slaels eeny teretee or any endenorneo eor ace-ptasne ee -- -- -   b-esdarlse                                                                                   JAWA           POWER    SYSTEM
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRANSMISSION LINES
t"tcraloc  /lOP                                                                                                                                POWER   SUBSTATIONS   TRANSMISSION  LINES
STTINS 01     150 KV          [Hy        150 KV      EITN
oKakataj Stool                         JAKARTA                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING
C6 Krakatau                                                                                            Steel                                                                                              -  ...            U NDER CONSTRUCTION/COMMITTED FOR
Setng                  CIO                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPLETION BY 1987
Ucrally   X r.      KoWegr9 K j                                                                                                                                               _    FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
/              Ksatb,                                                                                                                                                                  PROPOSED PROJECT
C rata                                                                                                                                                              \!        F PLN'S WILAYAH  NUMBERS
.''  rT:OC' 0l'.-P  .  ...... I   i    Jattlehar                                                                                                                                                  IL)       WILAYAH  OR  DISTRIBUSI  HEADQUARTERS
Padiarasq
CS"'ltttq            b     - u D                                     Paqb   _- _ __--- ,Seeyara*i -Cr  -r bon                                                                  PLN'S WILAYAH  BOUNDARIES
C an~~~et                         h--......~~~~~.. ~ Teqal Fo,ala,                               on1-o   s         Romnbog
Blandeng    Uiuttober,g                    1t                         PekalongaelPnaa
6V_                                                                                                                                      A                    SURABAYA
';'- It 1                  Karnnlanh             -                      13   [[  ,:;.N  .!'- -            4;a                                                   Tuben         ;-
Uaest                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baegkalan  neos
Garut  -                   Maeing           3arung                                     Cop011  s.b   sea/Klo Cuna\
11                          __                               r.~~~~~~~~~~~Slt,a_
tasiktttaleay                 Psrwoleo to                                          "Salehgr 8    = .                      rtnlonatgone      >"    *t                    \Sa         a ao
Bania,_                                                                                Coamb°  . |                        2A.a  .tal        .I         . S.MadJraA    Pamekasae 
G~ ombang                    Blbk         SoleB
JAKARTA            1060                                                                                          Cleeap                    Pu-woo r     Yoga             Solo T.            Madiso                      ;            -   .t See inset map
70                                                                                                  .                  A""       .       B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~X  qil     70
Yoyalkarta  "                   Wenoerri
Aegko   Aeonosa,                                                                                                                                                                               K.diri                        Probo1iogg0 Kraksan               Sioubaondo
Cengkareng       Muata      ANcWonooal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Piro3
Karang    ITaniungo                      EMARANGOuB
Ko,arnh           Priok                            ______ I         _____J__Malang____ace___A
ng sambljt<>pAlmpdilq                                                                     T Jepara            I SURABAYA                 110°                                                      Wl             ang                                                     weso    s
Tortt 'nta n                            O9"    ak |t                                                                  _________________________________________
Tanq ~     ~      Pe            e      ClatagKiadus                                                                _____________________Wle,Bndows
Seror,g                                                                                                                                           CandinltyŽ.                                                         Karantgkates              Lmio 
[Jeeps                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JemberBnywng
Pe,lalsagan                                                           S H.ab.urOrmolud                                Pncetrokm,a              I,skS.   .~
Gto ant,West -Itaerr --                                                      Perwodadi           \                        Grk SPP   .
Dattdsl                 Woler                   (VI~~~, ,\,,~  test Semnatang           hgrras4
CW1    0JaiesaonTa,99on                                                                  Tad         ,ak    Stmpang
\ (mong          Wen;           )                  East Semarang                                          Ngagrl      Keneran                               0             50           100           150
lgtqara                                             Kr,an tWar-                                                                        KILOMETERS
vOBogor 0                                                                                         Moloketo                             Stukolilo                            0       20       40        60       a0       100
.elekt                                                                                                                       MILES
112°                                                           1124
.____      ____________                                       ___________                                                                                                                                                                        1140 II 






