LOAN NUMER           IND
O0FFICIALI
DOCUMENTSI
Project Agreement
(Fourteenth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PERUSAHAAN UMUN LISTRIK NEGARA
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER         IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        ' A       a, 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
(hereinafter called PLN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two.
hundred ten million dollars ($210,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that PLN agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PLN, the proceeds of the Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to PLN on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PLN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PLN declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, described in said
Schedule, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PLN in carrying out the
Project, PLN shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement ,of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PLN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by PLN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PLN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PLN shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such


﻿-3-
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PLN of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
PLN, PLN shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by PLN and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) PLN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PLN and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. PLN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PLN shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PLN shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   PLN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. PLN shall centralize and strengthen its
existing project formulation, engineering, design, procurement


﻿-4-
and construction monitoring activities in accordance with its
action plan as agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLN
Section 3.01. PLN shall at all times manage its affairs,
improve its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry out its operations all in accordance with sound engineer-
ing, administrative, financial and public utility practices under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) PLN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations and shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all interests in land and other
properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in carrying out the Project or in
the conduct of its business.
(b) PLN shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
facilities, equipment   and   other  property, and   promptly   as
required, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of
its business and undertaking.
Section 3.03. PLN shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions, including self-
insurance, satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04. In order to ensure a steady increase in its
electricity supply to consumers, PLN shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank annually, for its review, PLN's customer connection
program for each fiscal year and shall thereafter carry out such
program.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLN shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested;
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements of PLN, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request,
including without limitation on the foregoing its unaudited
accounts as soon as available, but not later than six months
after the end of each such year; and
(d) the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this
Section supercede and replace the relevant provisions of all
prior agreements between the Bank and PLN.
Section 4.03. PLN shall periodically review its long run
marginal cost and annually study its tariff level and shall
review the results of the tariff level study with the Borrower
and the Bank by December 31 of each year.
Section 4.04. PLN shall: (i) by December 31, 1984, prepare
a report, in consultation with the Borrower and the Bank, on the
methodology to be used for detailed revaluation of its assets;
and (ii) for FY 1985/86 and thereafter, annually revalue its
assets (including work in progress and consumers' contributions),
and accumulated depreciation for the purposes of the rate of
return calculation set out in Section 4.07 of this Agreement, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLN
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of PLN shows that the projected
internal cash generation of PLN for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement of PLN in such year on all
debt of PLN including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PLN maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or further modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guar-
antee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into.
(c) The term "internal cash generation of PLN" means gross
revenues of PLN from all sources, adjusted to take account of the
PLN's tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the twelve-month
period to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses
of  PLN,   including  expenses  accountable   to  administration,
maintenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
provision for depreciation of assets and interest and other
charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast pre-
pared by PLN in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
to be incurred, which both the Bank and PLN accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified PLN of its acceptability,
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a mate-
rial adverse effect on the financial condition or future operat-
ing results of PLN.
(f) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of currency of the Borrower, debt


﻿-7-
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, with absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06. PLN .shall, as part of its on-going annual
planning procedures: (i) prepare a ten-year financial forecast
based on its proposed development plan; (ii) test each proposed
development plan for -financial feasibility; (iii) develop a
financing plan covering the first five years of the forecast
period which will specify the quantum of external funding and the
appropriate mix of equity and debt, and, to the extent possible,
identify potential financial sources; and (iv) ensure that its
recommended development plan and associated financial forecast
and financing plan are jointly reviewed and adopted by its Board
and that such plans and forecasts will be furnished to and dis-
cussed with the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.07. (a) PLN shall from time to time take all such
measures as shall be required to realize, in its fiscal year
1985/86, an annual rate of return of not less than six percent
(6%), and in each of its fiscal years thereafter an annual rate
of return of not less than eight percent (8%).
(b) Before December 31 in each year, PLN shall on the basis
of realistic forecasts review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Sect4on for
the next fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of
such review upon its completion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the required annual return shall be calculated by
dividing PLN's net operating income for the fiscal
year in question by one-half of the sum of the
current value of PLN's net fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and the end of that
fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means the revenues
from all sources related to PLN's operations less
all expenditures incurred on account of such
operations, including expenses of administration,


﻿-8-
adequate maintenance and taxes or any payments in
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation.
Interest and other charges on debt shall not be
deducted from gross revenues; and
(iii) the term "value of PLN's net fixed assets in
operations" means the gross value of PLN's fixed
assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, both as valued from time to time in
accordance with the methods of valuation or
revaluation referred to in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement.
Section 4.08. Sections 4.05 of the Project Agreement
(Twelfth Power Project) dated December 27, 1982 and the Project
Agreeement (Thirteenth Power Project) dated June 22, 1983, each
between the Bank and PLN, are respectively amended to read as
Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PLN thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-9-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PLN:
Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
Jalan Trunojoyo
Blok MI No. 135
Kebayoran Baru
Jakarta Selatan, Indonesia
Cable address:                   Telex:
PLNPST                          47156 PLNPST IA
Jakarta                         47248 PLNPST IA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required. or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PLN, may be taken or executed by the
President Director of PLN or such other person or persons as the
President Director of PLN shall designate in writing, and PLN
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WREREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK NEGARA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, PLN shall prepare and forward to the Bank
as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question.
PLN shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 12 -
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indonesia
if the bidder shall have established to the satisfac-
tion of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the


﻿- 13 -
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for concrete poles may be awarded in accordance
with the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures in
effect as of the date of'this Agreement.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PLN shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PLN shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-14 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PLN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, PLN shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform PLN and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2  C*-day of _Lne, 198
FOR SECRETARY


