Page  1
November 22, 2000
Mr. Rafael Calderón Martínez
Technical Secretary to the Presidency
National Palace
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Re:
PHRD Grants No. TF25609/TF25767-DO
(Integrated Education Development Project, formerly
known as Secondary Education Development Project)
Amendment to the Grant Agreements
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Grant Agreements between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Dominican Republic (the 
Recipient) both dated February 3, 1999 (the Grants) with regard to the 
above-captioned project (the Project).
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your letter of request 
dated August 18, 2000 and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees 
to amend the Grants so as to: (i) incorporate an early childhood development 
component for the Project; (ii) reallocate the proceeds of the Grants; and (iii) 
extend the Closing Date of the Grants.
Consequently, the Grants are amended as follows:
1.
Paragraph 1 of the Annex to the Letter Agreement of TF25767 and paragraph 
1.1 of the Annex to the Letter Agreement of TF25609 is hereby amended and 
replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
"The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the 
preparation of the Integrated Education Project which aims at expansion 
of coverage with improved quality and efficiency in public and private 
preschool and secondary schools (the Project).  The Activities for which  the 
Grant is given are as follows:
(a)  Secondary Education:
(i)
identifying key trends and characteristics of 
secondary education financing and expenditure, 
including public and private sources; 
(ii)
analyzing determinants of demand for secondary 
education, including household characteristics, 
and 
the labor market effect of secondary education; 
(iii)
carrying out selected studies on core subject 
teaching (i.e. language, mathematics, science), 
teacher training, school management and student 
assessment; and 
(iv)
conducting activities for consolidating policy and 
project design, incorporating broad stakeholder 
participation.
(b)  Early Childhood Education:
(i)
identifying key trends and characteristics of early 
childhood education financing and expenditure, 
including public and private sources; 
(ii)
analyzing the role of the private sector and 
non-profit NGOs in the delivery of early childhood 
services to children living in poverty; 
(iii)
analyzing determinants of demand for early childhood 
education; 
Page  2
(iv)
carrying out studies on the capacity of public and 
private early childhood programs to deliver 
high-quality integrated health, education, and 
nutrition services; and 
(v)
conducting activities for consolidating policy and 
project design, incorporating broad stakeholder 
participation.
2.
The table set forth in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to the Letter Agreement 
of TF25609 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety as follows:
Amount of the
   % of
     Grant Allocated
Expenditures
"Items
    (in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' Services
   152,597
100%
(2)
Workshops and Seminars
    22,403
100%
TOTAL
   175,000"
3.
The date referred to in paragraph 4 of the Annex to the Letter Agreement 
of TF25767 and in paragraph 4.3 of the Annex to the Letter Agreement of TF25609 
is hereby amended and replaced to read "September 30, 2001".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter will be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective on the date the 
Bank receives: (a) one fully executed original of this amendment letter; and (b) 
an audit report acceptable to the Bank..
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Rafael Calderón Martínez
Authorized Representative
Date:
December 1, 2000
