                                                                                     45733

                            DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR

                                    PROJECT PAPER




Borrower: The Dominican Republic
Responsible agency: Secretaria de Educacion
_c




/
Current closing date: 12/31/2009

Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved         X
RVP approved

Does the restructuredproject require any exceptions to Bank policies?                -Yes XNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                         -Yes      No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         -Yes XNo


Revisedproject development objective/outcomes

The overall Project Development Objectives remain unchanged. However, one PDO outcome
indicator would be eliminated, given that it cannot be attributed to the project without supplementary
data, and three outcome indicators would be modified to allow for improved project monitoring and
to ensure a strong focus on impact.       In addition, output targets for classroom construction and
rehabilitation would be revised to adjust for increasedunit costs.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.

                                   Revised Financing Plan (US$m.)
                        Source                              Local     I   Foreign    I      Total
Borrower                                                14.48          5.52           20.00
IBRD/IDA                                               22.18           19.82          42.00
Others
Total                                                  36.66           25.34          62.00



                                             2


INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

 1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Board o f Directors to restructure the
DominicanRepublic Early Childhood Education Project, Loan 7144 DO (P054937)', and
the accompanying Loan Agreement. Project restructuring refers to introduction o f
significant changes inthe project and falls into one o f two categories:

          (a) first-order restructurings, which involve changes to project development
          objectives and/or associated outcome targets. All such restructurings are approved
          bythe Executive Directors under the absence-of-objection procedures; and

          (b) second-order restructurings, which do not involve any changes to project
          development objectives or associated outcome targets. All such restructurings are
          approved by the Regional Vice Presidents(RVPs).

2.        According to OP/BP 13.05 (IS),         this Project requires a first-order restructuring
given the proposed changes to the Project Development Objective (PDO) outcome
indicators, though the original PDOs remain unchanged.

3.        The proposed restructuring would enable the project to adapt to unforeseen cost
increases, improve project monitoring and permit flexibility in procurement and financial
management to facilitate the achievement o f project goals. As noted above, it would not
modify the PDOs, which remain valid and achievable, but rather would modify select
output and outcome indicators.          I t would revise downward the output indicators for
preprimary classroom construction and rehabilitation to adjust for an unexpected increase
incivil works unit costs. Inaddition, it would eliminate one PDO outcome indicator and
modify three others in order to ensure that all outcome indicators measure only what can
be attributable to the project, are sufficiently specific and quantifiable to be monitored,
and focus strongly on impact.            Furthermore, it would formalize an activity within
Component 2 as a stand-alone subcomponent. It would also amend the procurement
schedule to eliminate the aggregate limits for the use of the various procurement methods
and the selection o f consultants (i-e., NCB, Shopping, Procurement o f Small Works,
Direct Contracting, Least Cost Selection, Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
and Selection o f Individual Consultants) and allow the use o f the single-source selection
method for consulting services provided by a teacher training institute uniquely
positioned to provide high-quality teacher training in early childhood education. Finally,
it would allow for the reallocation o f loan proceeds among expenditure categories. All o f
these changes comprise part o f a proposed amendment to the project Loan Agreement,
described briefly below.

4.        On February 13, 2008, the Ministry o f Treasury o f the Dominican Republic
formally requested that the Bank carry out an amendment to the Loan Agreement to
extend the project closing date by eighteen months from June 30, 2008 to December 31,

' According to OP/BP 13.05 (16), "During project implementation, if priorities or circumstances
surrounding the project change, it may be desirable to introduce corresponding changes in the project, its
design, or the implementation arrangements (for example, administrative, organizational, procurement,
financial, environmental management, or resettlement arrangements, or the timing o f agreed actions)".
                                                   3

 2009, reassign funds among expenditure categories and allow the use o f the single-source
 selection method for consulting services (see Annex A). The extension o f the closing date
 was requested to allow sufficient time for the full utilization o f the loan, since
 implementation progress has been slow, particularly in the area o f civil works. Given
 that the closing date extension did not require an amendment to the Loan Agreement nor
 formal restructuring, it was approved by the Bank on March 18, 2008. In addition, the
 Ministryo f Education reported that it hadreached the aggregate limit on NCB, and it was
 therefore using I C B for bids that would otherwise require national bidding. The Bank
 analyzed these issues and determined that aggregate limits for the use o f various
 procurement methods and the selection o f consultants should be eliminated, since the
 aggregates no longer serve their intended purpose, but that this change needed to be part
 o f the Loan amendment. Finally, given that PDO outcome and output indicators for the
 Project are specified as part o f the Loan Agreement and its annexes, modifications to
 these indicators must also be reflected in an amendment. (See proposed amendment in
Annex B).

 BACKGROUND

 5.      A US$42.0 million loan was approved by the Board o f Executive Directors on
September 5, 2002 to support the implementation o f an Early Childhood Education
Project in the Dominican Republic. The Bank's loan became effective on December 2,
2003, a delay o f nearly 15 months that has contributed to a lower than expected level o f
disbursement.The Project Development Objectives include the following: (i) increase
                                                                                  to
access to early childhood development services for all children ages zero to five, as
measured by preprimary enrollment rates and the expansion o f non-formal services
provided by communities and agencies; and (ii)to strengthen the quality o f early
childhood education that is available to children ages zero to five. Key investments
include classroom construction and rehabilitation, teacher training, financial and
technical support for community-managed projects, and support for policy and strategy
development. As o f June 30, 2008, 38.1 percent o f the loan proceeds and counterpart
funds have been disbursed and an additional 28.0 percent have been committed.

6.       Overall implementation is rated as satisfactory, albeit behind schedule due in part
to the initial delay in effectiveness.     Key achievements under the project's three
programmatic components are outlined below:

7.       Component I: Expanding Preprimary Education Services. This component,
which includes the construction o f regional model centers and new classrooms, has
experienced the slowest rate o f implementation, but it has made some progress. The
project has constructed only five regional model centers (out o f the original target o f 17),
which serve as models for preprimary classrooms in their physical infrastructure and
provide much needed space for teacher development activities.          Furthermore, it has
constructed a modest number o f new classrooms (81 out o f the original target o f 600),
creating 6,060 new pre-school places and thereby contributing to increased preprimary
enrollment (which reached 82 percent o f all five-year-olds and 73 percent o f the poorest
five-year-olds in 2007, an increase o f 10 and 22 percentage points respectively from
baseline levels in 2002). As o f June 30, 2008, 24.7 percent o f the Bank and counterpart


                                            4

funds allocated to this component have been disbursed and 30.6 percent have been
committed.

8.       Component 2: Increasing ECD Education Quality. This component, which
encompasses teacher training, the application o f a pedagogical model for early childhood
development (ECD), and the rehabilitation o f existing classrooms among other activities,
has made substantive progress. In particular, the pedagogical model has improved the
quality o f teaching and learning, as evidenced by increased student performance on the
Early Years Evaluation (EYE) instrument and reduced repetition among students who
participated in the pilot phase o f the project relative to the national population.
Furthermore, 92 classrooms have been rehabilitated (out o f the original target o f 600),
which has created 5,520 new pre-school places and correspondingly contributed to
increased enrollment. As o f June 30, 2008, 55.4 percent o f the funds allocated to this
component have been disbursed and 30.5 percent have been committed.

9.       Component 3: Institutional Strengthening in the Education Sector. This
component consists o f a Grant Program to provide financial and technical support for
civil society organizations (CSOs) offering non-formal ECD services, as well as support
for coordination across the sectors and institutions involved in ECD. The Grant Program
for Non-Formal ECD for children aged 0-4 has served as a model for bridging the
government and CSO sectors and has benefited from a strong, multi-stakeholder Board of
Directors. WhiIe the Grant Program originally aimed to reach 20,000 direct beneficiaries
and 80,000 indirect beneficiaries through 200 initiatives, it has already reached more than
50,000 beneficiaries directly and more than 100,000 indirectly through the 60 initiatives
carried out as o f M a y 30, 2008. Also under this component, the project launched a
Consultative Roundtable for Early Childhood in February 2008, which will regularly
convene stakeholders from different sectors to address key issues at the early childhood
level. As o f June 30, 2008, 55.4 percent o f the funds allocated to this component have
beendisbursed and 46.6 percent have been committed.

RATIONALE FOR RESTRUCTURING

10.     Factors accounting for the slow implementation o f classroom construction and
rehabilitation, in combination with rising civil works costs that limit the purchasing
power o f the remaining funds, have rendered unachievable the output indicators for
constructed and rehabilitated classrooms and school spaces, even with the extension o f
the closing date. In addition to the 15-month delay in declaring effectiveness, processes
associated with bidding, contracting, supervision and payment have been slow, and the
tropical storms o f 2007 impededconstruction. Furthermore, unexpected increases in the
price o f cement (20 percent in the first half o f 2007) and structural steel (15 percent inthe
same period), among other inputs, have led to a dramatic increase in the unit costs o f
construction and rehabilitation for classrooms and facilities such as bathrooms, kitchens,
recreation areas, and fencing. While the unit costs for new and rehabilitated classrooms
were estimated at US$20,000 and US$8,000 respectively at appraisal, repeated
competitive bidding has shown the current costs to be US$45,000 and US$13,000
respectively. Assumingthat financing does not increase, project funds are sufficient only
to construct 310 classrooms (258 in schools and 52 in regional model centers) and
rehabilitate 443 classrooms (425 in schools and 18 in regional model centers), rather than

                                               5

to achieve the original targets o f 600 each. This also translates into a reduction in the
number o f pre-school places created, from 36,000 new places and 36,000 rehabilitated
places to 18,600 and 26,580 respectively. While the Bank indicated in July 2007 that it
would be open to the possibility o f additional financing to achieve the original targets, it
was informed by the Ministry o f the Economy, Planning and Development in December
2007 that this was not presently an option, due to lack o f fiscal space.

 11.      Four o f the project's five PDO outcome indicators2 would be revised to aid
project monitoring and to maximize impact:

      1. PDO Indicator I: Increase the enrollment rate of five-year-olds in preprimary
          education from 71.8% to 86%. Given the Government's policy o f universal
          preprimary enrollment and its efforts to achieve this goal, increases in enrollment
          among the entire population cannot be attributed entirely to the project. According
          to the ISR submitted subsequent to the Mid-Term Review, target enrollment i s
          expected to be met independent o f the project's civil works. The PP therefore
          proposes that this indicator be eliminated formally. Still every effort will be made
          to obtain a reasonable estimate o f the project's contribution to the increase in
          overall enrollment (e.g., by comparing the number o f classrooms built and
          rehabilitated by the project to the number built and rehabilitated by the Ministry
          o f Education).

     2. PDO Indicator 3: Carry out 200 initiatives involving cross-sectoral and public-
          private collaboration in the provision of early childhood services, benefiting
          20,000 children directly and 80,000 others indirectly, The experience o f the
          Grant Program has shown that larger' grant recipients possess the reach and
          capacity to affect a significant number o f beneficiaries, which may obviate the
          need for a high number o f funded initiatives. This suggests a greater focus on
          impact (Le., the number o f beneficiaries) and a lessened focus on outputs
          (initiatives). Hence, the target number o f 200 initiatives would be eliminated.

     3. PDO Indicator 4: Original: Decrease the percentage of time during which
          children in preprimary classes are not actively engaged, by five percentage
         points; Proposed revision at mid-term: Increase capacities in communication
          and socio-emotional development of pre-school children. While both the original
          and the proposed revised versions o f this indicator attempt to capture important
          information on preprimary students' performance, such as their level o f
          engagement, communication skills and socio-emotional development, neither i s
          currently defined in a measurable way.                    The PP therefore proposes that this
          indicator be replaced with a measure that i s quantifiable and that makes use o f an
          instrument (the Early Years Evaluation) already in use by the project, which also
          offers some baseline information.




'PDOIndicator     2 remains unchanged, since it i s reasonable to believe that an increase in the preprimary
enrollment o f the poorest quintile i s attributable to the project, given its use o f a supply and demand study
to target high-poverty areas for construction and rehabilitation.
                                                          6

     4. PDO Indicator 5: Achieve significant difference in grade repetition and dropout
        rates in grades 3 and 4 for children that attended regional model centers as
        compared to those rates for the totalpopulation in grades 3 and 4. In order to
        monitor accurately the academic outcomes among pre-school students associated
        with the project, this indicator would be modified in terms o f the population
        evaluated, the specificity o f measurement, and the indicator itself.     First, the
        population would comprise those covered by the project, rather than only those
        who attended regional model centers.         Second, the concept o f a "significant
        difference" in grade repetition between project beneficiaries and the national
        population would be replaced by an actual number. Third, the indicator would no
        longer include dropout rates, given that they are unreliable because they do not
        correct for students who leave school due to transferring, rather than dropping out.

12.     The project would include as part o f Component 2 a new subcomponent,
Rincones Tecnoldgicos, intended to incorporate Information and Communication
Technologies (ICTs) at the preprimary education level. This new subcomponent would
provide children with a head start in ICTs at an early age and would support the
application o f the E C D pedagogical model. Two hundred and fifteen classrooms would
benefit from this intervention in approximately 99 schools. Rincones Tecnoldgicos
received a no-objection from the Bank as an activity within Component 2 on December
5, 2005, conditional on the establishment o f a baseline on the knowledge and use o f ICTs
at this level, before purchasing computer equipment. Given that the implementation o f
ICTs in classrooms comprises a distinct activity from those in any o f the other current
subcomponents (that is, from 2.1 teacher training, 2.2. application o f the pedagogical
model, 2.3 creation o f resource centers, 2.4 provision o f materials, 2.5 rehabilitation o f
classrooms, and 2.6 work with families), Rincones Tecnologicos should not be included
in one o f the other subcomponents but rather should be upgraded to a stand-alone
subcomponent, 2.7.

13.     Furthermore, the PP proposes modifications to the Loan Agreement that will
permit single-source selection o f a uniquely qualified provider. In order to carry out a
large-scale teacher training program, the Government has requested permission for the
single-source selection o f a specific teacher training institute, Instituto Salomk UreZa.
The Bank's Guidelines for the "Selection and Employment o f Consultants" allows for the
single-source selection o f consultants, including firms and organizations, whenever "only
one firm i s qualified or has experience o f exceptional worth for the assignment" (Section
111, Paragraph. 3.10, letter d). This provision applies to the Instituto Salomk UreZa, the
only teacher training institution inthe Dominican Republic that has developed the kindo f
training sought by the project at a sufficient level o f quality. A 2007 OECD review o f the
Dominican Republic's education policies noted the high quality o f this institution and its
graduates, particularly relative to other higher education institutions offering teacher
training. The unique and exceptional services critical to project implementation to be
provided by this institution justify the use o f single-source selection, and the Bank i s
satisfied with the supportive evidence submitted by the client that supports this assertion
(see Annex C). However, the 2002 Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Loan 7144-DO),
Schedule 4 (Procurement), Section 11, Employment o f Consultants, does not list single-
source selection o f consultants and excludes any reference to paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 o f

                                              7

 Section 111. Hence, this proposed change requires an amendment the Loan Agreement to
 allow for the single-source selection o f Instituto Salomi UveSa. Schedule 4
 (Procurement), Section 11, Employment o f Consultants, Part C, Other Procedures for the
 Selection o f Consultants, would therefore be modified accordingly.

 14.       Finally, the PP proposes modifications to the Loan Agreement that will render the
bidding process more efficient and will enable the Government to focus the Bank's
resources so as to maximize impact. The Bank recognizes the need to make bidding more
 efficient by eliminating the unnecessary constraint imposed by aggregate limits for the
use o f various procurement methods and the selection o f consultants. In using ICB for
bids that would otherwise requireNCB, solely due to having reached the aggregate limit
on the latter, the Government invests more time and resources than i s necessary. In
addition, the Government should be permitted additional flexibility in reallocating funds
between expenditure categories in order to reach the project's goals, particularly in the
area o f civil works.

PROPOSED CHANGES

 15.      Proposed changes include the following:               1) elimination o f one PDO Outcome
Indicator and modificationo f three other PDO Outcome Indicators; 2) modification o f the
PDO Output Indicators for classroom construction and rehabilitation; 3) formalization o f
Rincones Tecnoldgicos as a stand-alone subcomponent within Component 2; 4)
permission for single-source contracting with a teaching training institute; 5) elimination
o f aggregate limits for the use o f various procurement methods and the selection o f
consultants; and 6) permission for reallocation o f funds among categories.                        These
changes are described further below.

16.       Proposed changes to the PDO Outcome and Output Indicators are shown in
Tables 1 and 2 respectively. An updated Results Framework i s presented in Annex D,
while performance to date using the restructured outcome and output indicators i s
summarized inAnnex E.

Table 1. PDO Outcome Indicators
Original

PDO Indicator 1:Net enrollment pre-school enrollment rate increases from 72% to 86% by end o f project.

PDO Indicator 2: Net enrollment pre-school enrollment rate o fpoorest increases from 51% to 86% by end
o f project.

PDO Indicator 3: Carry out 200 initiatives involving cross-sectoral and public-private collaboration inthe
provision o f early childhood services, benefiting 20,000 children directly and 80,000 indirectly.

PDO Indicator 4: Decrease the percentage o f time during which children in pre-primary classrooms are
not actively engaged, by five percentage points.

PDO Indicator 5: Achieve significant difference in grade repetition and dropouts rates in grades 3 and 4
for children that attended regional model centers as compared to those rates for the total population in
grades 3 and 4.



                                                      8

 Restructured

 PDO Indicator 1: Eliminated.

 PDO Indicator 2: Unchanged.

 PDO Indicator 3: Carry out initiatives involving cross-sectoral and public-private collaboration in the
 provision o f early childhood services, benefiting 50,000 children directly and 100,000 indirectly.

 PDO Indicator 4: Increase capacities in communication and socio-emotional development of pre-school
 childrenas measured by the EYE instrumentfrom 3.0 to 3.4 among the childrenbenefiting from the project
 by the end o f the project.

 PDO Indicator 5: Achieve a difference of at least 3 percentage points ingrade repetition ingrades 3 and 4
Ifor children that benefited from the project as compared to those rates for the total population in grades 3
                                      -   -                                             .~
 and 4 by the end o f the project.
 Source: PAD (2002), MTR (2007), ISRs (2008), operations portal.

 Table 2. PDO Output Indicators
 Original

 36,000 new places for pre-school education, as a result o f construction o f 600 new classrooms and 17
 model pre-schools.

 36,000 improvedplaces for pre-school education, as a result o f rehabilitation o f 600 existing classrooms.

 Inall Model Pre-Schools and in 50% ofpre-schools nationwide are hnctioning Parent Committees.

 Restructured

 About 18,600 new places for pre-school education, as a result o f construction o f about 258 new classrooms
 and about 18 regional model centers.

 About 26,580 improved places for pre-school education, as a result o f rehabilitation o f about 425 existing
 classrooms and about 18 classrooms inregional model centers.

 Unchanged.
 Source: PAD (2002), MTR (2007), ISRs (2008), operations portal.

 17.      Given that the aggregate limits for the use o f various procurement methods and
 the selection o f consultants would be eliminated, as discussed earlier, it is proposed that
 the Procurement Plan now be the basis for determiningthe most appropriate procurement
 method for each contract and for obtaining the Bank's approval o f the use o f that method.

 18.      The proposed formalization o f Rincones Tecnolbgicos as a stand-alone
 subcomponent and changes pertaining to single-source selection o f consultants and
 financial management have already been discussed. An updated costing table, including
 the reallocation o f funds among expenditure categories, i s presented inAnnex F.




                                                       9

ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

 19.    Given that civil works costs have increased but project financing has not, the
project i s expected to produce a lower number o f beneficiaries at a higher cost per
beneficiary, which merits a reexamination o f the project's economic analysis.

20.     The client commissioned a new economic analysis for the Mid-Term Review
(2007). According to this study, the Internal Rate o f Return (IRR) o f the project with the
updated unit costs is estimated at 14.4 percent, and the Net Present Value (NPV) at a
discount rate o f 12 percent i s US$76 million. These results show that the project i s still
socially profitable. A sensitivity analysis shows the results to be robust up to a 20 percent
increase in expected recurrent costs and a 50 percent reduction in expected gains arising
from lower repetition and drop-out. Under this more conservative scenario, the IRR
remains 14 percent and the NPV i s US$56 million. Hence, it i s recommended that the
project be completed despite the increases in civil work costs.

21.    The fiscal impact described in the PAD remains valid and unchanged, since the
loan amount has not changed. Inaddition, since the original proposed target o f 86 percent
preprimary enrollment i s likely to be achieved despite the lower number o f preschool
spaces created by the project, it i s reasonable to assume that the project's unmet original
construction goals will not impose an excessive fiscal burden inthe future.

22.    The proposed changes do not affect the original technical, institutional, social or
safeguard aspects o f the project as appraised.

EXPECTED RESULTSAND BENEFITS

23.    The original expected outcomes of improved access to quality Early Childhood
Education remain valid. Although the project i s acknowledged to play less o f a role in
expanding overall preprimary enrollment, it continues to focus on enrollment among the
poorest and to support critical improvements to quality, particularly important as the
Government fulfills its policy o f universal preprimary coverage.

24.    By enhancing educational outcomes, the restructured project will contribute both
to poverty alleviation by promoting higher individual returns to education and to higher
aggregate economic growth by enhancing labor productivity. The focus on access o f the
poorest to quality Early Childhood Education ensures that this is an equitable, pro-poor
growth strategy. This is consistent with the sector goals originally established inthe 1999
Country Assistance Strategy and currently in force in the 2005 Country Assistance
Strategy, as well as the findings o f the 2006 Country Economic Memorandum and
Poverty Assessment.

RISKS

25.    Following his reelection in M a y 2008, President Leone1 Fernandez appointed a
new Minister o f Education on August 16, which resulted in changes in project personnel
that could potentially affect the progress and continuity o f activities. However, several
key personnel will remain involvedwith the project until suitable replacements have been

                                             10

identified by the Ministryand approved by the Bank, Inaddition, the Task Team Leader
met with the new Minister, as well as the broader project team, on September 18 to
discuss the overall project status and the most critical issues. Finally, the project team
and World Bank staff have agreed to hold a monthly videoconference to ensure that
project activities remain on track.

26.     Macro-economic conditions and fiscal constraints also pose a risk to project
implementation and the sustainability o f funding for E C D beyond the life o f the project.
Inflation, particularly in construction costs, has posed challenges for the implementation
o f the project's infrastructure components and may continue to do so if costs continue to
rise. The Bank i s currently in discussions with the government regarding how best to
mitigate this risk. Furthermore, competing fiscal priorities, such as efforts to address the
effects o f 2007's tropical storms, and high public debt ratios constrain the government
fiscally. These conditions led to the recent decision by the government not to pursue
additional financing for this year. However, it i s hoped that strong economic growth,
coupled with the government's commitment to universal access to preprimary school for
five-year-olds, will help to sustain early childhood education beyond the closing date of
the loan.

PROCUREMENT/FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT/ SAFEGUARDS

27.     The two changes in the project's procurement arrangements are the inclusion o f
single-source contracting and the elimination o f aggregate limits for the use o f various
procurement methods and the selection o f consultants (see Annexes B and C). The
financial management arrangements included in the PAD remain valid, as do the PAD
safeguards assessments (see section E. Summary Project Analysis).




                                              11


ANNEX A: LETTER REQUESTING AMENDMENT TO THE LOAN
AGREEMENT




     Estiniada Sefirjrcl

     Nos ieteninos ai A          ~ de PrBstamo No ~7144DO firmado errtra el & h w w
                                        ~      ~            ~      o
     Dominicans y 01   Bai-ico Inteirasronal de Raconstrucci6n y Fomento (RIRF; d     c ai
     financkamiento clef Proyecto pars el Fortalecimtentode de la EducacionIniciai"

     A parti. de ia eJalLiacion de media terniino llevada 8 cab0 en junic 2007 durante la
     lVIisioi del Banco Munclial, presidida por 10s Seilores Sam Carlsuii y Raja D KaMar
     ~:ort&sriients IP salicitamos introducrr fres (3) enmiendas a! Acuetclb de Ijres:ana
     detdliailas a cuntrrruacibn

         (I} ewtonder en dieciocho 178) weses la fecha de cimre del rderidr: creditn de
             forma tal que @stabea e1 31 de diciembre de 2009,

         t:) perimtir 18 reasigr-mmn da fondm ai-tie ias cetegarias de dpwnihok-
             encontradasen el PROGRAMA 1 del Acuerdo de Prsstanio      .




                                               12


13


ANNEX B: SUMMARY OF LEGAL COVENANTS/ PROPOSED AMENDMENT
TO THE LOANAGREEMENT

Rationale

Modifications to PDO outcome and output indicators. One o f the project's PDO
outcome indicators (Indicator I)would be eliminated since it cannot be attributed to the
project, while three others (Lndicators 3-5) would be revised to aid project monitoring and
to maximize impact3. In addition, the PDO output indicators associated with classroom
construction and rehabilitation would be revised to account for increased civil works unit
costs. The following table presents the new set o f output and outcome indicators. Annex
D depicts the new results framework, which also includes baseline information.

PDO Output Indicators                                            PDO OutcomeIndicators
About 18,600 new places for pre-school education, as a           Indicator 2: Net enrollment pre-school enrollment
result o f construction o f about 258 new classrooms and         rate o f poorest increases to 86% by end o f project.
about 18 regional model centers.                                 (unchanged from original)

About 26,580 improved places for pre-school                      Indicator 3: Carry out initiatives involving cross-
education, as a result o f rehabilitation o f about 425          sectoral and public-private collaboration inthe
existing classrooms and about 18 classrooms inregional          provision o f early childhood services, benefiting
model centers.                                                   50,000 children directly and 100,000 indirectly.

Inall Model Pre-Schools and in50% o fpre-schools                Indicator 4: Increase capacities incommunication
nationwide are functioning Parent Committees                    and socio-emotional development o f pre-school
(unchanged from original)                                       children as measured by the EYE instrument from
                                                                 3.0 to 3.4 among the children benefiting from the
                                                                project.

                                                                Indicator 5: Achieve a difference o f at least 3
                                                                percentage points in grade repetition in grades 3
                                                                and 4 for children that benefited from the project as
                                                                compared to those rates for the total population in
                                                                grades 3 and 4.

28.       Introduction ofa new subcomponent. The project will include in Component 2 a
new subcomponent, Rincones Tecnoldgicos, intended to incorporate Information and
Communication Technologies (ICTs) at the preprimary education level. This new
subcomponent provides children a head start in ICTs at an early age. Two hundred and
fifteen classrooms would benefit from this intervention in approximately 99 schools.
Rincones Tecnoldgicos received a no-objection from the Bank as an activity within
Component 2 on December 5, 2005, conditional on the establishment o f a baseline on the
knowledge and use o f ICTs at this level, before purchasing computer equipment. Given
that the implementation o f ICTs the classrooms comprises a distinct activity from those
in any o f the other current subcomponents (that is, from 2.1 teacher training, 2.2
application o f the pedagogical model, 2.3 creation o f resource centers, 2.4 provision o f
materials, 2.5 renovation o f classrooms, and 2.6 work with families), Rincones
Tecnoldgicos should be upgraded to a stand-alone subcomponent, 2.7.

3PDO Indicator 2 remains unchanged, since it is reasonable to believe that an increase inthe preprimary
enrollment o f the poorest quintile i s attributable to the project, given its use o f a supply and demand study
to target high-poverty areas for construction and rehabilitation.
                                                          14

Reallocation of funds among expenditure categories. The Government should be
permitted flexibility in reallocating funds between expenditure categories in order to
reach the project's goals. The increased costs incivil works require reallocating a portion
o f the project's unspent funds from consulting to civil works. Similarly, a portion o f its
unspent funds from consulting will be also reallocated to teacher training, which requires
additional fundingnot initially forecasted. See Annex F for more details.

Aggregate limits. There i s a need to make bidding more efficient by eliminating the
unnecessary constraint imposed by aggregate limits for the use o f various procurement
methods and the selection o f consultants. In using I C B for bids that would otherwise
require NCB, solely due to having reached the aggregate limit on the latter, the
Government invests more time and resources than i s necessary. The aggregate limits for
the use o f various procurement methods and the selection o f consultants should therefore
be eliminated, given that it is no longer standard practice to include them in a Loan
Agreement.

Single-source Selection of consultants. The Bank's Guidelines for the "Selection and
Employment o f Consultants" allows resorting to single-source selection o f consultants,
including firms and organizations, whenever "only one firm i s qualified or has experience
o f exceptional worth for the assignment" (Section 111, Paragraph. 3.10, letter d). This
provision applies to the Instituto Salome` Urefia,the only teacher training institution inthe
Dominican Republic that has developed the kind o f training sought by the project with
sufficient quality. This institution provides unique and exceptional services that are
critical to Project implementation, which justifies the use o f single-source selection. The
Bank i s satisfied with the supportive evidence submitted by the client (see Annex C for
thejustification o f single-source selection). However, the 2002 Loan Agreement between
the Dominican Republic and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(Loan 7144-DO), Schedule 4 (Procurement), Section 11, EmpIoyment o f Consultants,
does not list single-source selection o f consultants and excludes any reference to
paragraphs 3.9 to 3.13 o f Section 111.Hence it is necessary to amend the Loan Agreement
in order to allow for the single-source selection of Instituto Salome` Urefia. Schedule 4
(Procurement), Section 11, Employment o f Consultants, Part C, Other Procedures for the
Selection o f Consultants, will be modified accordingly (see below).

The following amendment includes the modification o f PDO outcome and output
indicators, the introduction o f a new subcomponent, an updated table with the
reallocation o f funds among categories, the elimination o f the aggregate amounts, and the
incorporation o f single-source selection as a procurement method.




                                              15

Proposedamendmentto the loan agreement



                                                                                September 12,2008


HisExcellency
Lic. Vicente Bengoa
Secretario de Estado de Hacienda
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda
Avenida MCxico No. 45
Santo Domingo, Rep~blicaDominicana


                  Re:      Loan No.7144-DO (Early Childhood Education Project)
                           Amendment to the Loan Agreement

Excellency:


        Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic (the Borrower) and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated December 6, 2002
with regard to the above-captioned Loan (the Loan Agreement).

        We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your letter of request dated February 13,
2008 as well as our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan
Agreement so as to: (a) modify the indicators set forth in the Annex to the Implementation Letter;
(b) modify the table in Schedule 1 (Disbursement) to the Loan Agreement by reallocating funds
among Categories; (c) add a new subcomponent under Part B o f the Project; and (d) replace
Schedule 4 (Procurement) to the Loan Agreement.

        Consequently, the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended as follows:

1.      The indicators included in the Annex to the Implementation Letter are hereby modified to
read as set forth in Attachment 1 to this amendment letter.

2.      The table in paragraph 1 o f Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended and
replaced to read inits entirety as set forth in Attachment 2 to this amendment letter.

3.      Paragraph 3(a) o f Part A o f Schedule 2 o f the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:

        " 3 .    (a)      Construction o f about 258 new classrooms in existing schools and about
        18 regional model centers comprising about 52 new classrooms for Preprimary Education
        in areas selected by the Borrower in accordance with criteria set forth in the Operational
        Manual, including the acquisition and utilization o f pedagogical materials and school
        furniture for each classroom; and (b) employment o f teachers for said classrooms."


4.      Paragraph 4 o f Part B o f Schedule 2 o f the Loan Agreement is hereby amended and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:


                                                   16

         "4.      Renovatiodremodeling o f about 425 Preprimary Education classrooms in
         existing schools and about         18 classrooms in regional model centers (which
         renovation/remodeling may consist o f the installation o f an appropriate ventilation,
         lighting and sanitary facilities) selected by `the Borrower in accordance with the criteria
         set forth inthe Operational Manual."


5.       A new paragraph 7 is introduced on Part B o f Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, to read
as follows:

         "7.      Incorporating/Introducing information and communication technologies (ICTs) at
         the preprimary education level to provide children with a head start in ICTs at an early
         age and support the application o f the early childhood education pedagogical model."

6.       Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement i s hereby amended and replaced to read in its entirety
as set forth in Attachment 3 to this amendment letter.

         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
letter in the spaces provided below. Capitalized terms used in this amendment letter and not
defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement. Thenceforward, all
other provisions o f the Loan Agreement, except as amended through this letter shall remain in full
force and effect. This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each o f which shall
be an original.


         Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set
forth in this amendment letter shall become effective as o f the date o f the countersignature.

                                          Very truly yours,

                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                                          Yvonee Tsikata
                                               Director
                               Caribbean Country Management Unit
                             Latin America and the Caribbean Region


AGREED:

DOMINICANREPUBLIC

BY
             Authorized Representative

Name:

Title:

Date:

                                                  17

                                                                                     Attachment 1
                                                ANNEX

                                      MONITORING INDICATORS

PDO                   Component           Intermediate         Outcome         (PDO   Baseline     (PDO
                                          outcomes (outputs)   Indicators)            Indicators)
1, To increase        1. Expanding        About 18,600 new     Indicator 2: Net       5 1.O% (2002)
access to early       Preprimary          places for pre-      enrollment pre-
childhood             Education Services  school education, as school enrollment
development                               a result o f         rate o f poorest
services for all      3 Institutional     construction o f     increases to 86% by
childrenages zero     Strengthening inthe about 258 new        end ofproject.
to five               Education Sector    classrooms and
                                          about 18 regional
                      4. Project          model centers.
                      Administration and                       Indicator 3: Carry     None
                      Monitoring          About 26,580         out initiatives
                                          improved places for  involving cross-
                                          pre-school           sectoral and public-
                                          education, as a      private collaboration
                                          result o f           inthe provision of
                                          rehabilitation o f   early childhood
                                          about 425 existing   services, benefiting
                                          classrooms and       50,000 children
                                          about 18 classrooms  directly and 100,000
                                          inregionalmodel      indirectly.
                                          centers.

2. To strengthen      2. Increasing ECD   Inall Model Pre-     Indicator 4:           3.0 (2005)
the quality o f early Education Quality   Schools and in50%    Increase capacities in
childhood                                 o f pre-schools      communication and
education that i s    3. Institutional    nationwide are       socio-emotional
available to          Strengthening inthe functioning Parent   development o f pre-
children ages zero    Education Sector    Committees           school childrenas
to five                                                        measuredby the
                      4. Project                               EYEinstrument
                      Administration and                       from 3.O to 3.4
                      Monitoring                               among the children
                                                               benefiting from the
                                                               project.

                                                               Indicator 5:
                                                               Achieve a difference
                                                               o f at least 3         None
                                                               percentage points in
                                                               grade repetition in
                                                               grades 3 and 4 for
                                                               children that
                                                               benefited from the
                                                               project as compared
                                                               to those rates for the
                                                               total population in
                                                               grades 3 and 4.




                                                     18


                                                                                       Attachment 2


                                          SCHEDULE 1

                            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan


1.         The table below sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out o f the proceeds of
the Loan, the allocation o f the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed ineach Category:


                                         Amount o f the
                                        Loan Allocated                    % o f
                                          (Expressed in                Expenditures
        Category                            Dollars                   to be Financed

(1) Works under Parts                       20,497,000           100%
    A.1,A.3 (a) and B.4of
    the Project

(2) Goods (excluding                         8,900,000           100% o f foreign
    goods under Early Childhood                                  expenditures; 100%of
    Education Subprojects)                                       local expenditures
                                                                 (ex-factory cost); and
                                                                 80% o f local expenditures
                                                                 for other items procured
                                                                 locally

(3) Consultants' services                    2,657,000           38%
    (excluding consultants '
    services under Early Childhood
    Education Subprojects)

(4) Training (excluding training             3,825,999           84%
    under Early Childhood
    Education Subprojects)

(5) Works, goods,                            5,100,000           80%
    consultants' services.m d o r
    training, as the case may be,
    under Early ChildhoodEducation
    Subprojects

(6) Operating Costs                            600,000           80%




                                                19

                                Amount o f the
                                Loan Allocated           % o f
                                (Expressed in         Expenditures
       Cateaorv                    Dollars           to be Financed

(7) Front-end fee                    420,000     Amount due under
                                                 Section 2.04 o f this
                                                 Agreement

(8) Premia for Interest Rate                0    Amount due under
    Caps and Interest Rate                       Section 2.09 (c) of
   Collars                                       this Agreement

       TOTAL                      42.000.000




                                       20

                                                                                   Attachment 3

                                         SCHEDULE4


                                          Procurement


Section I. Procurementof Goods and Works


--
Part A: General


        Goods and works shall be procuredin accordance with the provisions o f Section Iof the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Guidelines)and the following provisionsof Section Iof this Schedule.


Part B: International CompetitiveBidding


1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I1 of the
Guidelinesandparagraph5 o f Appendix 1thereto.


2.      The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts
awarded inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.


        (a)     Grouping;o f Contracts


        To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bidpackages
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more and $3,000,000 equivalent or more, respectively.


        (b)     Preference for DomesticallyManufacturedGoods


        The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto
shall apply to goods manufacturedinthe territory o f the Borrower.

Part C: Other ProcurementProcedures

1.     National Competitive Bidding


        (a)     Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be
procuredunder contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.


        (b)     Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procuredunder contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.

                                                21

standard(c)     Procurement o f goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using
         biddingdocuments acceptable to the Bank.

2.      Shopping


        Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis o f international or national shopping procedures, at the Borrower
or the Eligible Entity's option, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines.


3.      Direct Contracting


        Goods under Early Childhood Education Subprojects which should be procured as an
extension o f an existing contract and costing $2,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate under
each Early Childhood Education Subproject, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured
inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph 3.7 (a) o f the Guidelines.


4.      Procurement o f Small Works


        Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under lump-sum,fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from three (3)
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form o f agreemeni acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work,
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.




                                                22

Part D: Review by the Bank o f Procurement Decisions


1.      Procurement Planning


        Prior to the issuance o f any invitations to ,bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions o f paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement o f all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved
by the Bank and as provided in Section 3.10 o f this Agreement, and with the provisions o f said
paragraph 1.


2.      Prior Review


B of this(a)     With respect to: (i)each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part
          Section; and (ii)the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded each calendar
year during Project implementation under Part C.l (a) and (b) o f this Section, respectively, the
procedures set forth inparagraphs 2 and 3 o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


        (b)      With respect to the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded each
calendar year duringProject implementation under Parts C.2 and C.4 o f this Section, respectively,
the following procedures shall apply:


                 (i)     prior to the selection o f any supplier or contractor under said Parts, the
                         Borrower shall provide to, the Bank a report on the comparison and
                         evaluation o f the quotations received;


                 (ii)    prior to the execution o f any contract under said Parts, the Borrower shall
                         provide to the Bank a copy o f the specifications and the draft contract;
                         and


                 (iii)   the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 o f Appendix 1 to
                         the Guidelines shall apply.


        (c)      With respect to all contracts for goods under Part C.3 of this Section, the
following procedures shall apply:


                 (i)     prior to the execution o f any contract under said Part, the Borrower shall
                         provide to the Bank a copy o f the specifications and the draft contract;
                         and


                 (ii)    the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 o f Appendix 1 to
                         the Guidelines shall apply.


3.      Post Review


        With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph2 o f this Part, the procedures set
forth inparagraph 4 o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

                                                 23

Section 11.      Employment o f Consultants

--
Part A : General


         Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions o f Sections I
and IV o f the "Guidelines:       Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999
and M a y 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2
thereto, and the following provisions o f Section I1o f this Schedule.


Part B : Qualitv- and Cost-based Selection


        Except as otherwise provided in Part C o f this Section, consultants' services shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f Section I1 o f the
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions o f paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to
quality- and cost-based selection o f consultants.


Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection o f Consultants


1.      Least-cost Selection


        Consultants' services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f
the Consultant Guidelines.


2.      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications


        Consultants' services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 o f
the Consultant Guidelines.


3.      Single-Source Selection


        Specialized training activities may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 o f the Consultant Guidelines


4.      Individual Consultants


        Consultants' services for specialized Project activities, as approved by the Bank, and
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines shall be
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines.


Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants


1.      Selection Planning

                                                 24

         A plan for the selection o f consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates,
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,     shall be furnished to the
Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for
proposals. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such
selection plan (as updated from time to time as referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement).


2.       Prior Review


         (a)     With respect to each contract for the employment o f consulting firms estimated
to cost the equivalent o f $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 o f
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.


         (b)     With respect to: (i)each contract for the employment o f individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent o f $50,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the employment o f
key staff for the P C U (as determined by the Bank), the report on the comparison o f qualifications
and experience o f candidates and the terms o f reference and terms o f employment o f the
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions o f paragraph 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.


         (c)     With respect to each contract for the employment o f individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent (with the exception o f each contract for the
employment o f key staff for the PCU as provided inparagraph (b) above), the terms o f reference
o f the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.


3.       Post Review


         With respect to each contract not governedby paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set
forth inparagraph 4 o f Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.




                                                 25


INSTITUTO SALOME URENA
ANNEX C: JUSTIFICATION OF SINGLE-SOURCE SELECTION OF




                                                              Santa Damingn l3 N
                                                              10 de jtinio del 2.005


  Seiiora
  Raja Bentaauet Kattan
  Gerente del Proyecto
  Departamento de Desarrotlo Hurnano
  Banco Mundiai
  Su Despacho


  Estimada sefiora Kattan:

  Reciba un cordial saludo al tiempo que le salicitarnos, nueva vez, la autorizacion
  para la contratacibn del lnstituto Superior de Formacion Docente Salomk Ureria
  para irnpartir 10s cuatro Oiplamados y la Especialidad que se han Diseiiado para
  las educadoras y educadores del Nwel Inicial.

  Esta accibn se enmarca en el Proyectha para el Fortalecirnientode la EducaciGn
  lrlicial en la RepQblica Domrnicana, dentra del Component@2 Mojoremrcnto de
  la Galrdad del Grado Pre-primario, curno park de las acciones de capacitacr6n a
  las educadorasks de dicho Grado, contempladas en el POA 2008

  Esta soiicitud, la cual farma parte de [a Enmienda ai Acuerdo de Prtilstamo BIRF-
  7144 , se hace tonmdo en consideracibn las sigutentes aspectos, y/o fortalezas,
  con que cuenta el lnstituto Superior de Formacirjn Dcrcentc,            10s ctdalos
  qwssi&arnos que fuesen ponderados nuevatnente por Usted.

  Estcls aspectos son

           El lnstituto Superror de Formacibn Docente Salome UreAa (ISFODOSU)
           constitirye la instancra de soporte academic0 de la Secretaria de Estado
          de Education {SEE) La base legal del ISFOUOSU est5 sustentada en ]as
          disposicioncs quo se especrfican a continuacion-


      e    Ley 66'97, en 10s Articulos 103 y 222 que estahlecen, por kin lado, que la
           SEE "desmntralizara la ejecuciCtr7 de funciones servicios. programas
          proyectos detrnidos en el marco de la Ley y sus Reglarnentos" y, poi- atra

                                             26

  parte, "que Ias Escuelas Normaies y la Escuela Nacmnai de EdLicacrbn
  Fisica Escolar pasan a ser tnstituciones de educacibn superior"
  Decreta 517'03, y Decreta No 427'00, el cuai dispone que las Escuelas
  Normales pasen a ser deqorninacfas lnstitutos Ilniversblarios de
  Forrnacibn Docente
  0rdr;nanza 1'02, def Cor-~sejoNacional de Educactbn, que estabtece el
  Estatutv Organic0 del lnstitutcl Superior de Formacidn Docente, en el CUal
  SB define la naturalera, prtneipios   y fines de la Enstitucibn, asi coma la
  estructura aca&mica     y administratrva, inctirjdas 6as de 10s respectivos
  RecinK~sdel Instewto.

  Ei fnstituto se rige apqado a la ley 139-01 capitdo 111,     artkiilo 24, q l ~ e
  reza: 'Los lnstitutos Especializados de Estudtos Superiores: son aquellos
  centros autorrzados para inlpartir cafreras y otorgar titubs a nivd de
  qrados y postgrados en &reas de especialidad, previarnenle aprobadas
  por el CONESCT'

  A diferencia de cstras rnstituctones, el lnstituto Saiom& Urefia dispone de
  una infraestructura 6ptima para la docencia en drferentes regrones
  geograficas del pais, en correspondencia con la poblacion de
  educadores/as n la que querernas alcanzar desde el Proyecto a nlvel
  nacranal. Est5 rntegrado lpof seis Recintos lo$ cuales cornparten un
  mistno modelo pedagbgico.

  El tristiluto ha desarrclllado programas de capacrtactbn dmgidos a la
rdttcadorasles il4 Nivel Bnicial, especificamente. dos capacitaciones de
Vemnv (aiio 2003 y aAo 2005) das Diplomado, uno en Lengiiaje y
Comunicacrljn y otra en Gurriculo, Planificacibn y Evaluacibn llevado Gab0
HI 10s   ariOs 21306 y 2007 Durante la ~jecuci6nde dichos programas. et
Institute ha odrecido un servicio de calidad, evidenci&ndose la prabada
experiericia del nismo para desarroltar la formacion dernandada a1 contar
con un cuerpo docente competente, a1 diseilar una propuesta tecnrca y
     docencra con contenidos, estrategias y actividades pertincntes a! N I Q ~ ,
a la vez que ha mostrada una organizacion adecuada y apeyada a los
reyuerimieritus establecidos.

   El Institute cuenta can una planta profesional de cisnto sesenta y cinw
(l65) grofesores para el desarrolb de 10s programas, dtstribuidos en todos
sus ReCmtGS, con diferentes modalidadesde contratacidn

  El lnstituto ,por su naturaleza y su participacirjn en las accioncs de la
Secretaria de Estado de Educaciiin conoce a cabalrefad, el Curriculo del
Nlvel Inlceal, el Perfll delita Doc;erik d  que aspira e6 Srstcma Educatrvo
Donainicano,asi corn0 las priorr'dadesestablecrdas pur diferentes yestiones
gubernamentales Es este sentido, el lnstituto es un ccmocedor rfr? ias
riecesidades reales de formacidri de loslas docentes, tenierxb de estt?




                                      27

modo la expeaiencia necesaria en la irnplernentacicln de planes [le
forrnacibn pei-tinentes y adccuados para las educadaras del sector
educative

A 10s aspectos planteados mas arnba se le agrega el interes die la
Secretaria de Estado de Educaciljn de que el Proyecto para el
Fartalecimiento de la Educacrdn Inicial, en el rnarco de sus acciories de
forrnacidn continua a !as edwadorasles, deje una capacidad instalada en el
lnstituto de Formacidn Superior Salorne WreiSa ,corn0 instttucion oficial
responsable de la formaci6n docente requeridos par el Sistema Educativo
Dorninicana, ~o~struyendo al proceso de consolidackm de una entidad
                              asi
sblida que pueda ser la principal forrnadora y capacitadora del personal
docenk presente y futuro en las cuestlrones relacionados con el Nivei
knE C II ~

Es por Iu antes descrito que, carno parte de 10s ajustes al Convcnio de
Prkstama, solicitarnos at Banco Mundial su no objecion a la conlrataceon
del lnstituto para llevar a cabo 10s Diplomados y la Especialidad dirigidos a
bas educadaras r'es del Niwl lnicial para 10s aAos de vida que le restan al
Proyecto

Sin otro particular, y agradeciendo la atencion que      puedan preslar a
nuestra sokftucf, se rlespide




Oficina de Coope




                                     28


ANNEX D: UPDATEDRESULTSFRAMEWORK

PDO                  Component         Intermediate         Outcome        (PDO Baseline      (PDO
                                       outcomes (outputs)   Indicators)          Indicators)
1. To increase       1. Expanding      About 18,600 new     Indicator 2: Net     5 1.O% (2002)
access to early      Preprimary        places for pre-      enrollment pre-
childhood            Education         school education, as school enrollment
development          Services          a result o f         rate o f poorest
services for all                       construction o f     increases to 86%
childrenages zero    3 Institutional   about 258 new        by end o f project.
to five              Strengthening in  classrooms and
                     the Education     about 18 regional
                     Sector            model centers.
                                                            Indicator 3:
                     4. Project        About 26,580         Carry out            None

                     Administration    improvedplaces for   initiatives
                     and Monitoring    pre-school           involving cross-
                                       education, as a      sectoral and
                                       result o f           public-private
                                       rehabilitation o f   collaboration in
                                       about 425 existing   the provision o f
                                       classrooms and       early childhood
                                       about 18 classrooms  services,
                                       inregional model     benefiting 50,000
                                       centers.             children directly
                                                            and 100,000
                                                            indirectly.

2. To strengthen     2. Increasing ECD Inall Model Pre-     Indicator 4:         3.0 (2005)
the quality of early Education Quality Schools and in 50%   Increase capacities
childhood                              o f pre-schools      incommunication
education that is    3. Institutional  nationwide are       and socio-
available to         Strengthening in  fimctioning Parent   emotional
children ages zero   the Education     Committees           development o f
to five              Sector                                 pre-school
                                                            children as
                     4. Project                             measured by the
                     Administration                         EYEinstrument
                     and Monitoring                         from 3.0 to 3.4
                                                            among the
                                                            children benefiting
                                                            from the project.

                                                            Indicator 5:        None
                                                            Achieve a
                                                            difference o f at
                                                            least 3 percentage
                                                            points in grade
                                                            repetition in
                                                            grades 3 and 4 for
                                                            childrenthat
                                                            benefited from the
                                                            project as
                                                            compared to those
                                                            rates for the total
                                                            population in
                                                            grades 3 and 4.

                                                 29


ANNEX E: PERFORMANCE TO DATE ON RESTRUCTURED INDICATORS

rable El: RestructuredPDO OutcomeIndicators
 Restructured Indicators
 PDO Indicator 2: Net enrollment pre-school enrollment rate o f poorest increases to 86% by end of
 project.

 PDO Indicator 3: Carry out initiatives involving cross-sectoral and public-private collaboration in the
 provision o f early childhood services, benefiting 50,000 children directly and 100,000 indirectly.

 PDO Indicator 4: Increase capacities in communication and socio-emotional development o f pre-school
 children as measured by the EYE instrument from 3.0 to 3.4 among the children benefiting from the
 project by the end o f the project.

 PDO Indicator 5: Achieve a difference o f at least three,percentage points in grade repetition in grades 3
 and 4 for children that benefited from the project as compared to those rates for the total population in
 grades 3 and 4 by the end o f the project.


 Performance to Date (Spring 2008)
 PDO Indicator 2: Net enrollment pre-school enrollment rate o f poorest increased to 73.4%.

 PDO Indicator 3: 60 initiatives involving cross-sectoral and public-private collaboration in the provision
 o f early childhood services have been carried out, benefiting 52,011 directly and 105,726 indirectly.

 PDO Indicator 4: Capacities in communication and socio-emotional development o f pre-school children
 as measured by the EYE instrument increased from 3.0 in 2005 to 3.85 in 2007 among the children
 benefiting from the project.

 PDO Indicator 5: The repetition rate in grades 3 and 4 for children that benefited from the project was
 6.5% compared to 10.5% for the total population ingrades 3 and 4 in2005l2006
 ources: 2007 Mid-TermReview, 2008 consultancy studies, June 2008 supervision mission

Table E2: RestructuredPDO Output Indicators
Restructured Indicators

 About 18,600 new places for pre-school education, as a result o f construction o f about 258 new classrooms
 and about 18 regional model centers.

About 26,580 improved places for pre-school education, as a result o f rehabilitation o f about 425 existing
 classroom and about 18 classrooms inregional model centers.

 Inall Model Pre-Schools and in50% ofpre-schools nationwide are functioning Parent Committees

Performance to Date (Spring 2008)

6,060 new places for pre-school education, as a result of construction o f 81 new classrooms and 5 model
pre-schools.

5,520 improved places for pre-school education, as a result o f rehabilitation o f 92 existing classroom.

39% of pre-schools have functioning Parent Committees

Source: June 2008 supervision mission


                                                     30


            ANNEX F: UPDATED PROJECT COSTS (LOAN PROCEEDS) /DISBURSEMENTS
            ARRANGEMENTS

            The table below presents the updated project costs per category for the remaining
            (undisbursed) US$26.51million as o f March 31, 2008:

            Expense Category PAD (2002)                          Disbursed                   Remaining
            (US$ million)              (US$million)              (US$million)                (US$million)
            Goods and works            23.5                       10.34                      13.16
            Consulting                 4.96                       1.56                       3.40
            Training                   3.15                       1.29                       1.86
            Subtxoiects                5.1                       2.17                        2.93
            Operational costs          0.6                       0.128                       0.472
            Total baseline cost        37.31                      15.48                      21.82
            NonAllocated               4.27                      0.00                        4.27
            Front-End Fee              0.42                      0.42                        0.42
            Total                      42.00                      15.90                      26.5 1
            Source: PAD, Project Financial Reports, Operations Portal.

            The following table summarizes the proposed reallocation o f funds among categories o f
            expenditure (In $US). The last column (Total Budget) corresponds to the amounts to be
            reflected inthe amendment to the Loan Agreement (see Schedule 1 inAnnex B):


                                                                                                AVAILABLE         BUDGET
                                                                                                                   TOTAL
   CATEGORY         BUDGET        DISBURSED         %       UNSPENT          REALLOCATION         BUDGET



 Civil Works      14,600,000.00    5,252,252.05    35.97     9,347,747.95      +5,897,000.00     15,244,747.95  20,497,000.00


 Goods             8,900,000.40    6,604,217.87    74.20     2,295,782.53                0.00     2,295,782.53  8,900,000.40


 Consulting        4,980,000 00    1,756,910.27    35.28     3,223,089.73       -7.323,ooo 00       900,089 73   2,657,000.00


 TrainIng          3,129,999.60    1,326,084.17   42.37      1,803,915.43        +69h,OO~J00      2,499,9 15.43 3,825,999.60


 Subprojects       5,100,000.00   2,469,337.53    48.42      2,630,662.47                0.00     2,630,662.47  5,100,000.00

 Operational
                                                                                              1                I             I
 costs               6oo'ooo'oo      121,199.94   20.20       478,800.06                 0.00      478,800.06     600,000.00


 Loan fees      1I   420,000.00 1I  420,000.00  1I100.00 1I          0.00  1I            0.00             0.00    420,000.00
1Unallocated    1  4,270,000.00 1               1  0.00 1   4,270,000.00  1    -4,270,000.00  1              0 1        0.00 I

Source: OJcina de Cooperacidn Internacional




                                                               31

It is proposed that all o f the loan's unallocated finds (US$4,270,000.00) and a portion of
its funds allocated to consulting (US$ 1,627,000.00) be redirected to civil works. These
funds will be used to offset the increased costs o f construction and rehabilitation. In
addition, a portion o f the loan's funds allocated to consulting (US$ 696,000.00) will be
redirected to training to augment teacher education.




                                               32

ANNEX G:LIST OF SUPPORTINGDOCUMENTS

  1. Project Appraisal Document, July 31,2002.
  2. No-objection on Rincones Tecnolbgicos, December 5,2005.
  3. Evaluacion de Medio Termino (Mid-Term Review), July 2007.
 4. Letter Requesting Amendment to the Loan Agreement, February 13,2008.
  5. Financial Management Report, March 3 1,2008.
 6. Implementation Status Report #16, June 30,2008.
  7. Letter on Justification of Single-Source Selection ofInstitute Sulome' UreGa, June
     10, 2008.




                                         33

