Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwd No.1193-PAK
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Volume II Annexes
February 24, 1977
Agriculture Division B
South Asia Projects Department
dTk   ^eme n to m a rusctud dfirlum s*d my be U#  by reciWeX ady is the pedfenorae of
d I dui. Its emlem  my mm e_heww_ be dHded witho  W.d  Bek sudheIIie.






PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK REPORT
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Table of Annexes
1.  THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR AND THE AGRICULTURAL SETTING
- a review of the livestock situation in Pakistan
2.   OPTIMAL FARM MANAGEMENT PATTERNS
- a linear programming analysis of the optimal use of
small farm resources for crop and livestock
3.   BEEF EXPORTS AND THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET
- a critical review of the potential of beef exports
from Pakistan
4.   BEEF PRODUCTION AND FATTENING
- the technical and financial case for increasing
beef production
5.   MEAT PROCESSING AND MARKETING
- an outline of the present market operations of the
meat market and a description of the new abattoir
facility proposed under the project
6.   FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
- the case for producing FMD vaccine
7.   VILLAGE LIVESTOCK ASSOCIATIONS
- the functions, organization, services and by-laws
of the VLA's
8.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE VLA's
- a discussion of the training needs of staff for
organizing, operating and servicing the VLA's
and of specific training proposal



- ii -
9.   AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
- an outline of the organization and operation of
the VLA extension program
10. MILK PROCESSING AND MARKETING
- an outline of the present operations of the milk
market and a description of the expanded milk pro-
cessing facility proposed under the project
11. UNIVERSITY TRAINING IN LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
- an outline of the present situation and the nature
of the improvements needed
12. WASTELAND DEVELOPMENT
- a note on the use of Diplachne fusca to improve
saline land
13. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN PAKISTAN
- a brief review of current Bank lending to agriculture
14. SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE PROJECT
15. ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS FILED SEPARATELY
A.   DRAFT REPORT
"Pakistan Punjab Beef and Milk Development Project"
Prepared for the Government of Pakistan by the Punjab
Livestock Dairy and Poultry Development Board assisted
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program - 3 volumes
B.   DRAFT REPORT OF THE PAKISTAN LIVESTOCK SECTOR SURVEY
(in 4 volumes) by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program



ANNEX I
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR AND THE AGRICULTURAL SETTING
I.   Introduction
1.01      Agriculture is the single most important economic activity in Pak-
istan and provides around 36% of the gross domestic product. Crops provide
about 69% and livestock 28% of the value of agricultural production,the
residual 3% being made up by fisheries and forestry. Agricultural products
are Pakistan's principal exports, making up some 59% of the total in the
period 1970-75. Rice and cotton are the major foreign exchange earners and a
primary source of tax revenue to Government. Wheat and edible oil are the
major imported agricultural commodities. Official exports of livestock prod-
ucts (mainly woollen carpets and skins) amount to US$40-50 million equivalent
annually, some 10% of average export income. Livestock imports - mainly milk
products and live animals-amount to about US$20 million annually, 1% of all
imports.
1.02      Draft cattle are the main source of power for the nation's agri-
culture, and an apparent shortage of draft power for land cultivation,
levelling, and rural transport is believed to constrain the intensification
of land use patterns, optimal crop sowing dates and improved irrigation ef-
ficiency. The continuous degradation of rangeland areas and the decline in
the per capita availability of milk and meat are also major livestock
problems of national concern.
1.03      Recent performance in the agricultural and livestock sector has
been particularly disappointing; the annual growth in agricultural output
has averaged 0.45% for 1970-75 whereas in the 1960's it increased by about
5% annually, an increase largely associated with the introduction of HYV's
and a sharp gain in irrigation water supplies. Adverse rainfall patterns
are partly responsible for recent disappointing trends, but more signifi-
cantly, it appears that the increase of crop production which occurred in
the 1960's has come to a halt while tubewell development has also slowed
down.
1.04      Nutrition surveys in Pakistan indicate that most of the rural
people have a marginal diet in terms of energy (average daily intake is a
little under 2,000 calories with about 50 gram of protein). The consump-
tion of protein food of animal origin is also relatively low at about 10
grams/day. The nutrition surveys also demonstrate a wide variation in the
distribution of food supplies according to income level. Clearly the
first priority in improving national food supplies is to attain an ade-
quate production of calories. Meat consumption, 82% of which is cattle and



ANNEX I
Page 2
buffalo beef, averages about 4.9 Kg capita/year while milk consumption
approximates 51 litres per capita. 1/ Comparable figures for Iran and India
are 16.5 and 1.3 Kg of meat, and 55 and 45 litres of milk respectively.
1.05      In spite of the important role of livestock in overall food pro-
duction and in national exports, livestock development has received low
priority in national planning. In recent years about 5% of the total al-
location of GOP agricultural development funds has been directed to the
livestock subsector. An inadequate supply of livestock products, particularly
meat, have been reflected in sharply rising retail prices which GOP have
sought to limit by the use of retail price controls, meatless days and the
prohibition of exports of live animals, meat and livestock feeds. Organized
and hygienic dairying and meat marketing is sparse, while recent increases in
fuel costs have focussed greater attention on the productivity of draft
cattle. In these circumstances GOP considers it important to review their
livestock development priorities and policies, and to initiate a series of
projects which augment livestock production within the context of the comple-
mentary role that livestock and agriculture play in the output of the pre-
dominant small farmer of Pakistan.
II. The Agricultural Background
2.01      The land area of Pakistan, about 197 M acres, contains about 72 mil-
lion people, 22 million cattle and buffalo, 22 million sheep and goats and
smaller numbers of other livestock such as poultry, camels, donkeys and horses.
2.02      Some 72% of Pakistan's rapidly growing population (growth rate 3%
to 3.5% annually) live in rural areas and 52% or 36 million depend directly
on agriculture for their livelihood. Small scale irrigated farming pre-
dominates. The average size of the 4.8 million farm holdings is about 10
ac. About 8% of farms have 25 ac or more while 50% of farm households have
less than 5 ac. A further 800,000 landless families are believed to own
livestock. About 40% of the cultivated area is tenant land, 40% owner
operated and 20% of mixed tenure. Recent land reform legislation enacted
in 1972 seeks to limit farm size to 50 ac but division of land title amongst
family members has enabled most larger farm families to retain their prop-
erty. The rural population is largely centered on irrigated land in the
Indus Basin and is distributed amongst villages typically comprising 150 house-
holds and 1,000 acres of arable land.
2.03      The total land area considered cultivable in any one season is
estimated at 43 million ac of which 33 million ac is irrigable at least once
in the monsoon season (kharif), or in the dry winter period (rabi). Pro-
ductive forest lands use 7 M ac and the residual 147 M ac, mostly with less
than 10 inches of annual rainfall, is range and wasteland. Wheat, rice,
1/   Mission estimate.



ANNEX I
Page 3
pulses, cotton, sugarcane and fodder are the main crops.  Most land culti-
vation (about 90%); particularly on smaller farms, is carried out by bul-
locks. (Tractor imports have averaged about 17,000 p.a. in recent years).
In spite of recent increases in the use of fertilizers and HYV's average
crop yields remain at low levels (Table 1.). An encouraging feature of the
otherwise disappointing average yields is the great difference which exists
among the yields of the better and less good farmers. Yields commonly har-
vested by better farmers are included in Table 1.
Table 1: Area Production and Yield of Major Crops
(Average 1970/71 - 1974/75)
Average       Yield of
Production          Yield      Better Farmers
M ac                1I.T.             T/ac          T/ac
Wheat          14.67              7.0                0.477         1.50
Rice            3.71              2.25               0.606          1.5
(Basmati and
HYV)
Cotton         4.73              0.64 (lint)        0.134          0.75
Sugarcane       1.48            22.52              14.560         27.0
2.04      The present irrigation water supply available has been estimated
at 56 M ac ft in the kharif season and 32.2 M ac ft in the rabi season. 1/
This volume of water provides some 3.8 ac ft per irrigated acre in the kharif
and 2.0 ac ft in the rabi. Water course regulators in Pakistan have been
built to provide an output of about 1 cusec servicing some 300 arable acres.
Some 50% of the canal irrigated area (mainly in saline groundwater regions)
has water available for 11 to 12 months, while the areas with fresh ground-
water and downstream from canal inlets have water in the canals only during
the Kharif season. The extensive development of both public and private
tubewells in the last decade has merged to some degree the previously clear
cut boundries between seasonal and perennial irrigation command areas. Yearly
variation in canal water availability, irrespective of district and province,
is substantial while water management and distribution beyond the primary
canal distribution system is poor and large conveyance and field losses
are common. On 52% of the irrigated area, the water table is within 10
feet of the surface and 11% of the arable area is severely affected by sa-
linity and alkalinity. 2/ Marginal saline and/or alkaline land is frequently
planted with salt tolerant grasses particularly Diplachne fusca, Agro-
pyron elongatum, and the legume, Sesbania aculeata, thereby providing
some useful grazing. Land rejuvenation in areas planted to these species
occurs to some degree.
2.05      The rainfed or "Barani" cultivated land comprises some 15 M ac,
mostly in the 20 to 40 in rainfall area of Northern Punjab and North West
1/   Schnittker Associates 1976.
2/   Waterlogging and Salinity Seminar.  WAPDA.  Lahore 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 4
Frontier Province (NWFP). Wheat and gram are the most important dryland
crops, but yields are low. They range from 0.15 to 0.3 tons per ac, depend-
ing upon rainfall. The main cropping system in the Barani lands relies
on kharif rainfall (July-September) to establish a rabi grown crop (Octo-
ber-April). This rabi crop is frequently followed by a kharif crop, usually
millet, and the land then fallowed throughout the following kharif to be
again planted in rabi wheat the following year. The Barani lands supply
some 10% (0.7 M tons) of the total wheat yield in Pakistan and about
5% (0.035 M tons) of total gram production.
III. Livestock Production
3.01      By providing the major source of farm power, rural transport, manure
and cooking fuel, by producing meat and milk, and by frequently providing the
only source of cash income on subsistence farms as well as insurance of fami-
ly purchasing power in the event of crop failure, farm animals play a key
role in the agricultural economy. The likely distribution of the present
livestock population, as indicated by the 1972 census, may be summarized as
follows:
Cattle       Buffaloes           Sheep       Goats
---------------------- Millions ----------… ----
Punjab               8.1            7.4               5.7          5.3
Sind                 2.8            1.5               1.6          1.5
NWFP                 1.2            0.5               0.6          0.7
Baluchistan          0.5            0.2               3.9          3.2
Total               12.6            9.6              11.8         10.7
Approximately 25% of the cattle and 50% of the buffalo population are be-
lieved to be breeding females, the different proportions reflecting the pri-
mary role of cattle for draft, and of buffaloes for milk production. About
70% of the sheep and goat population consist of females of breeding age.
The national poultry flock contains about 23.5 million birds, 6.5 million of
which are considered to be in commercial flocks.
3.02      Although the range lands of Pakistan dominate the land use pattern
they make a very small contribution to the total livestock output. It has
been estimated that only 13% of the feed supply of the present livestock popu-
lation of the nation is supplied by the range area. Nomadic and transhumant
flocks of goats, sheep and a small number of camels are the main livestock of
this zone. Sheep and goat flocks are each thought to number about 11 M, ap-
proximately half of each group being found in the Punjab. The relative num-
bers of each group in Baluchistan, Sind and NWFP are about 3.2 M, 1.5 M and
0.7 M respectively. Cattle and buffalo are almost entirely confined to the
arable areas.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Estimated Composition and Productivity of Pakistan's Bovine Herds
Cattle               Buffalo
M       %            M       %
Cows                         3.0      24          4.5      47
Heifers 1-2 years            0.6       5          0.9       9
Heifers 2-3 years            0.5       4          0.8       9
Calves female                 .97      8          1.1      11.5
Calves male                   .97      8          1.1      11.5
Males 1-2 years                .90     7          0.2       2
Males   2 years              5.6      45          1.0      10
12.5                  9.6
Calving Rate %                        60                   50
Adult Mortality %                      5                    5
Female Calf Mortality %               12                   10
Male Calf Mortality %                  8                   30
Cow Cull Rate %                       10                   10
Adult Males Cull Rate %               10                   10
Milk/Lactation litres                750                1,500
3.03      The contribution of meat to the diet of Pakistan is made up by
about 270,000 tons of beef, 70,000 tons of sheep and goat mutton and 17,000
tons of poultry, thereby providing about 4.5 Kg of meat per capita per year.
Annual milk production is estimated at about 3.5 million tons, 70% of which
is from buffaloes. Milk from sheep and goats is estimated at 200,000 tons.
Annual per capita consumption of milk is estimated at about 51 Kg, while egg
consumption, at 26,000 tons in total, averages 0.36 Kg per capita (about 8
eggs).
The Cattle of Pakistan
3.04      The indigenous cattle of Pakistan consist of eight main breeds, each
with a strongly regional concentration:
-    draft        : Dhanni, Lohani, Bhagnari, Rojhan, Dajal
-    dual purpose:  Tharparkar
-    milk            Sahiwal, Red Sindhi
There are other breeds of lesser importance, while most village cattle are
of heterogeneous origin and nondescript type.
3.05      The performance characteristics of average village animals reflect
the nutritional stress they are subject to, especially a deficiency of protein



ANNEX I
Page 6
and an unusually high proportion of roughage in the diet of young and
lactating animals, particularly in the dry season. Age at first calving
is about four years and calving intervals approximate 2 years. The growth
of young stock is particularly slow. The average weight of mature bul-
locks is estimated at about 350 Kg, and 250 Kg for cows. Average mortality
rates in young stock are reputed to be of the order of 20-25% a consequence
of the selective rearing of male cattle calves for draft purposes. Mortality
in older stock is about 5%. Lactation yields vary greatly with breed; a
reasonable milk cow yields about 750 litres in one lactation of about 250
days.
3.06      The body size and performance of the specialized breeds noted in
3.03 (probably 30% of the total population) are noteably superior to those
of average village cattle. Cross breeding with European cattle was initiated
in 1970, principally with the Jersey, Ayrshire and Friesian breeds to produce
crossbred animals for specialized milk production. The superiority of the
crossbred for this purpose, under adequate conditions of feeding and management
is now well documented. At present, however, there are only some few hundred
head of crossbred cows and probably 500,000 Sahiwal and Red Sindhi cows, thus
most of the 2 million tons of cattle milk produced annually is essentially a
byproduct of the production of draft cattle.
The Buffalo of Pakistan
3.07      Traditionally there has been a degree of specialization between
buffalo and cattle in the sense that most buffalo are kept primarily to pro-
duce milk and most cattle to provide draft power. In terms of milk yield
the buffalo of Pakistan are superior to local cattle breeds. Buffalo milk
also commands a price premium because of its higher fat content. For draft
purposes the buffalo finds favor only in intensive paddy cultivation areas.
3.08      The buffalo of Pakistan have almost twice the liveweight of average
cattle and a correspondingly greater feed requirement. The two major breeds
found in Pakistan are the Nile-Ravi and the Kundi. The former originated in
the Punjab, the latter in Sind. Both breeds are noted for high milk produc-
tion with 1,500 litres being commonly recorded at the village level. First
calving usually occurs at about 4 years of age and thereafter each second
year. Lactation length is of the order of 300 to 360 days. Landless live-
stock owners are said to account for 5% of buffalo milk production, and
small specialized dairy units are common in the urban centers, with all
feed being supplied from agricultural areas away from the city area. As
with cattle, the bulk of the feed consumed is provided as a byproduct of
crop production.
Draft Animals
3.09      Draft males, both cattle and buffalo, are castrated when almost
mature. They perform about 90% of all seedbed preparation work (there are
about 50,000 35-45 HP tractors in use) and haul almost all materials to



ANNEX I
Page 7
fields and markets.  The total number of draft animals in use is estimated
about 5.0 million bullocks and 0.8 million buffalo. They are invariably
used in pairs in a traditional shoulder yoke harness. Land preparation is
undertaken with a simple tine plough, the operation being repeated several
times and followed by "planking" to effect a rough land levelling and finer
surface tilth. Working times for different operations vary with soil condi-
tions, the type of crop to be grown, the size of bullocks and other factors.
Average working times are approximately as follows:
3.10          Working Times for Different Bullock Operations
Operation                               Pair-hours/ac
Ploughing                                    6.0
Planking                                     0.75
Pore drilling                                8.0
Puddling for rice                            8.0
Intercultivation                             4.0
Threshing                                   40 hours per ton of
grain
3.11      The normal work capacity of a pair of bullocks is about 5 hours per
day, and the total cultivation time per acre of crop ranges from about 44
hours for wheat and rice to about 20 hours for fodder crops. The threshing of
rice is usually carried out by hand but for threshing wheat, gram and oilseed
a further 10 to 40 hours of bullock pair work per acre is normally required.
Peak work loads occur in the spring and autumn when the coincidence of land
cultivation and crop threshing place heavy demands on both bullock and human
labor. With existing numbers of draft cattle, one pair of bullocks, or
average, handle the work associated with 11.2 acres of cultivable land (Annex
2); at intensive levels of land use, one pair to about 6 acres are required.
Small farms carry more working animals than large farms; large farms substitute
draft animals by tractors. The comparative cultivation costs of tractors and
of the same order of magnitude. A hired tractor costs about Rs 20-25/hr and a
pair of bullocks, excluding the driver, about Rs 10/day, the former preparing
an acre for planting in about 3 hours, the latter in 5 days at a similar cost
of about Rs 70 per acre.
Draft Cattle and Farm Size
(1960 Census Data)
Area     Draft animals        Ac per
Farm Size    No. of Farms   Cultivated         Owned        Bullock Pairs
(ac)        (millions)    (million ac)  (million pr)
Up to 2.5            1.6            1.42.          0.53           2.5
2.5 to 12.5          2.2           12.12           1.5            8.0
Greater than 12.5   1.12           23.68           1.3           18.2
National Average                   37.22           3.33          11.17



ANNEX I
Page 8
Young Stock Losses
3.12      The economic incentive to sell liquid milk and milk products re-
sults in most livestock owners disposing of calves, surplus to their require-
ment for cow and draft animal replacement, at an early age. As Zebu cows
require the stimulation provided by the calf prior to hand milking, female
cattle calves surplus to replacement requirements must be kept alive while
the cow is in milk.  They are however, allowed only sufficient milk and other
feed to remain alive prior to their disposal at the end of the lactation at
some 200-250 days of age.  A similar situation prevails with buffalo and
surplus male buffalo calves are retained to 6-12 months of age on minimal
rations, then sold.  The consequent loss of potential meat production arising
from the early death at immature body weights of 250,000 female cattle
calves and one million male buffalo calves is about 200,000 tons of carcase
beef.
3.13      Experimental evidence is available indicating that buffalo calves
could be grown on to about 400 Kg liveweight with a feed intake which varies
from 4 to 16 TDN per Kg of body weight gain depending upon the quality of
the feed used and the daily gain it produces. At present concentrate feed
prices in Pakistan, each Kg of TDN costs about Rs 1.7 while each Kg of live-
weight has a market price of about Rs 2.2. (At present liveweight prices
for export cattle in Australia, New Zealand, and Argentina average about
Rs 2.2/Kg equivalent.) In these circumstances, the growing out of these
calves is only likely to occur if farmers are able to produce good quality
home grown feed at a cost approximating Rs 0.4 or less per Kg TDN, and if
this feed cannot be more profitably sold or used to feed extra cows or
higher producing cows. At present buffalo milk sells at about Rs 1.2 Kg
at the point of collection, and buffalo cows producing 2,000 litres in a
lactation each second year, consume about 1 Kg TDN per litre of milk pro-
duced. Given these figures the economics of the two alternatives favor
milk production.
3.14      There are two other factors which indicate Pakistani farmers are
likely to favor milk rather than beef production. The first is that the
energy density of growing and fattening rations needs to be higher feeding
young fatteners than for milk production purposes. (In circumstances of
Pakistan this means a ration containing about 50% crushed grain if reason-
able rates of gain (0.5 - 0.7 Kg/day) feed efficiency are to be achieved.)
The second is that there is very much greater scope for improving the ef-
ficiency of feed conversion in milk production in Pakistan than in beef pro-
duction. Under good feeding conditions three litres of milk can be produced
for each Kg of TDN fed, whereas little improvement in the feed efficiency
of cattle fattening is possible. A substantial widening of the present beef:
milk price ratio from the present 4:1 level (Buffalo milk Rs 1.2 per litre,
carcase beef Rs 5 per Kg) would be required therefore before any appreciable
increase in buffalo calf raising occurs (the comparable ratio in many coun-
tries is about 8:1).



ANNEX I
Page  9
Sheep and Goats and the Rangelands
3.15      Census data on sheep and goats is particularly imprecise as many
flocks pass provincial and national boundaries during seasonal movements which
follow patterns in the growth of range pastures. Total sheep numbers are be-
lieved to be about 12 million, and goats are thought to total about 11 million.
About 50% of sheep and goats occur in the northern mountain areas, 35% in the
West and 15% in the South.
3.16      About half the total number of sheep and goats are found in mixed
flocks of 25-50 head owned by 250,000 to 300,000 landless families.  Most
of these flocks are migratory, and pooled flocks of 70 - 130 head travel
long distances between mountain summer pasture and lowland winter grazing,
much of which consists of crop stubbles. The other 10 and 12 million or so
animals are sedentary and part of a mixed farming system. They occur in
small flocks of about 5 animals kept mainly for crop fattening and home con-
sumption. Most kids and lambs are born in the January to April period in
lowland areas. Lambing and kidding rates are of the order of 80% with mor-
tality rates of about 20% to one year of age. Some lambs and kids (about 20%
of annual sales) are sold at a price of about R's 80 per head at two to three
months of age about the time of the spring migration. Most of the remaining
males are sold during the autumn following the return of the flocks to lowland
areas. They are then 8 to 10 months of age, have a carcase weight of 20 to 25
lb, and a price of Rs 150. About 5 M lambs and 5 M kids are slaughtered
each year producing some 120,000 tons of meat. Additionally some 3 million
older stock are killed yielding a further 50,000 tons of mutton. Ewes, and
particularly nannies, are partially milked to provide small quantities of
milk for family consumption, the total milk yield being estimated at about
200,000 tons.
3.17      Shearing of sheep occurs in most areas twice annually.  Wool quality
and yields vary with breed but approximate 4 lbs of carpet-type wool in mature
animals and about 2 lbs for lambs. The total yield is estimated at about
19,000 tons. About 50% of goats are shorn yielding about 2 lbs of hair
each year. Unwashed fleece wool currently sells at about Rs 4 lbs and
goat hair at Rs 2 lbs.
3.18      There are more than 20 breeds of sheep indigenous to Pakistan, a
number of which differ mainly in their locality name. They may be broadly
classified into fat-tailed and thin-tailed types, the former inhabiting the
arid range areas, the latter the river basins.  The Lohi breed is the most
numerous and productive of the thin-tailed breeds and the Baluchi and Salt
Range breeds dominate the fat-tailed types. Crossbreeding with Awassi Sheep
from the Middle East and with the American Rambouillet has not been particu-
larly successful and has had negligible effects on national flock productivi-
ty to date.
3.19      The goat breeds of Pakistan are numerous and range widely in milk
production, body size and length of hair. The Beetol breed is noted for good



ANNEX I
Page 10
fertility, milk production and short smooth hair, the Barbari is a small
sized milk-producing type, while the Kagni is a large breed with a long hairy
coat. The small and prolific Teddy breed imported from Bangladesh some 10
years ago is now firmly established in the tree crop area of Punjab. Other
multipurpose breeds include the Dera Din Pinah, Nachi and Kamori.
3.20      The rangelands of Pakistan provide some 50% to 60% of the feed re-
quirements of the national sheep and goat flock, and their productivity is
closely correlated to rainfall patterns. Overgrazing of the range is common,
particularly along the traditional migration routes of the nomadic and transhu-
mant flocks. Deterioration of the range, while important in terms of further
diminishing the relatively small contribution that the rangelands make to the
national livestock feed supply, is of major concern in protecting the water-
sheds of the Indus Basin, in preserving the life of the large catchment dams
constructed recently to store irrigation water, and in minimizing the flood
damage that arises from rapid rainfall run-off from bare and eroded rangeland
slopes. Pilot rangeland improvement projects have been conducted with suc-
cess in the Maslakh and Thal tract areas. Much larger projects to cover the
watershed of the major storage dams are now urgently required.
Poultry
3.21      Recent census data on poultry are lacking.  Extrapolation from 1960
data suggests there is likely to be about 18 M desi birds in village areas.
Additionally 4.3 M commercial broiler chicks and 1.8 M layer chicks were
produced in 1973. Poultry other than chicken are unimportant and their num-
bers are few.
3.22      The ubiquitous desi fowl is kept in small numbers by most rural
families, and feeds by scavenging grain, insects and household scraps. The
desi hen produces some 50 eggs per year at an average egg weight of 1.5 oz (43
gm). Liveweight at 3 months of age is about 1.5 lbs.
3.23      Commercial flocks are still relatively few in number, probably
about 1,200 layer flocks and 460 broiler flocks with an average size of about
1,000 and 10,000 birds respectively. These flocks are located close to major
urban areas mainly in Punjab and Sind. Poultry meat produced by commercial
flocks is estimated at 5,200 tons (3,200 tons of broilers and 2,000 tons from
layer and breeder flocks). Meat production from desi birds is estimated at
12,000 tons. Egg production from the commercial sector amounts to about 270
M4 eggs (15,000 tons), about half the estimated national total of 30,000 tons.
3.24      Constraints to expanding the commercial poultry production center on
three key factors, an export ban on all livestock products, periodical shortages
in the availability of day old chicks and an inadequate national production of
the feedgrains that provide 60% or more of commercial poultry rations.  Poor
marketing facilities and the unreliability of the quality of many mixed feeds
are also important problems that commercial producers face. Eggs currently
sell at Rs 5.5 per dozen and broilers at Rs 17 per carcase of about 2.75 lb.
Average consumption per capita of poultry meat and eggs is estimated at 0.23
kg and about 8 eggs respectively.



ANNEX I
Page 11
The Feed Industry
3.25      Virtually all cereal grains produced are used for human food.  The
byproducts of grain milling, cotton and oil seed processing, some molasses
from sugar mills and some cracked and broken grain are available as live-
stock feeds. These feeds are rarely sufficiently well balanced in nutrient
content to permit their most efficient use when fed singly; they are better
fed as components of compounded and balanced concentrate mixtures. The Pak-
istani farmer presently feeds a relatively high proportion of single feeds
particularly rice and wheat bran and cotton seed cake, and considerable scope
exists for increasing the efficiency of utilization of these materials.
3.26      There is at present only one feed mill producing cattle feed in
Pakistan; it is located in NWFP. This mill, associated with a sugar plant,
is producing about 1,500 tons p.a. of feed based on beet pulp and molasses.
There are about 17 privately owned poultry feed mills in Punjab and Sind.
Total installed capacity of all feed mills in Pakistan in 1975 is estimated
at 270,000 tons and output at 100,000 tons, almost all of which was poultry
feed.
3.27      Current prices for major feed ingredients are as follows:
(January 1976)                                            Rs/ton
Maize                                   1,200
Sorghum                                 1,200
Broken rice                               600
Rice bran                                 350
Wheat bran                                 700
Maize gluten meal                          900
Cotton seed cake - solvent extracted 1,600
Cotton seed cake - expeller pressed   1,500
Fishmeal                                3,000
Meatmeal                                1,750
Bonemeal                                  800
Molasses
3.28      Rice, maize and wheat bran are not oil extracted and suffer from
rancidity if not used as freshly milled material. Substantial quantities of
livestock feed are exported each year, particularly broken rice and animal
byproducts. A recent ban on the export of cotton seed meal has however been
imposed.
IV. Marketing and Prices
4.01      There are no reliable estimates of the quantities of livestock
products that enter the main marketing channels. In the case of non-food



ANNEX I
Page 12
products - wool, hair, hides and skins - the primary marketing arrangements
remain simple but subsequent processing and marketing involve major invest-
ments and large scale commercial operations. By contrast, traditional market-
ing arrangements persist throughout for meat and milk. Central milk plants
and modern slaughter houses have made only a minor impact, and the processing
of milk and meat is almost entirely confined to household and artisanal opera-
tions producing traditional products.
Livestock and Meat
4.02      In all parts of the country there are small scale private buyers of
livestock to whom the producer can readily sell. Alternatively, producers
who have access to a local market centre (a mandi) may present their animals
for sale to an intermediary or butcher on market days. Long distance trans-
port of livestock by intermediaries to the main terminal markets is normally
by trucks. Livestock markets are in general poorly maintained and equipped;
they are frequently operated by a contractor who, having leased the market
right from the municipality, is then entitled to charge all users a marketing
fee.
4.03      In cities and towns the municipal authorities provide public
slaughterhouses where private butchers carry out the slaughter and dressing
of their purchased stock. Apart from a modern plant at Islamabad these
slaughterhouses are lacking in reasonable facilities for hygienic and humane
processing and for the adequate treatment of byproducts. Each butcher pays
a fee for each animal slaughtered and engages his own assistants.
4.04      The West Pakistan Slaughter Control Act, 1963 prohibits, except in
special cases, the slaughter of animals outside recognized slaughterhouses.
However, an important fraction of the total livestock slaughter in urban
areas still takes place in unauthorized premises, while in rural areas, there
are few effective controls. The same Act forbids the slaughter of "useful"
animals, particularly young female sheep or female buffaloes or cattle which
are fertile or for draught work.  In 1959, in an attempt to reduce the
goat population and conserve the pasture, the West Pakistan Goats (Restric-
tion) Ordinance was enacted. Rules made under that Ordinance restricted the
conditions under which goats could be kept and also stipulated that, of the
total sheep and goats slaughtered in any one day at a slaughterhouse not less
than 80% should be goats. Attempts to enforce these rules have since been
abandoned.
Retailing of Meat and Meat Prices
4.05      Meat and offal are sold from small booths and shops in local mark-
ets and other parts of each town. Specialized meat markets are not common
nor is meat wholesaling. In most cases each butcher slaughters his own daily
requirements. In Islamabad one butcher specializes in good quality cuts and
uses refrigeration equipment, otherwise meat is sold mainly as curry beef ir-
respective of cut and quality.



ANNEX I
Page 13
4.06      Although livestock and meat prices are low by international standards
they have been increasing sharply in the last few years and causing serious
concern to Government because of the effect on urban living costs. Currently
average quality mutton retails at Rs 11.1/kg and curry beef with bone at
Rs 6.7/kg. Typical liveweight prices at the producer level are now about
Rs 4 to 4.4/kg for mutton and Rs 2.0 to 3.0/kg 1/ for cattle and buffalo.
Although it is a familiar criticism that there is an excessive number of in-
termediaries between primary producers and final consumers, the circumstances
of the small size of production units and the small scale and multiplicity of
market outlets inhibit investment in better and centralized facilities, es-
pecially so when the price margin between producer and consumer is as modest
as the figures quoted above suggest. Draft oxen are usually sold in pairs
at an average price of Rs 5,000 to 6,000 per pair.
Marketing of Hides, Skins, Wool and Hair
4.07      Tanning and leather working is a traditional village industry in all
provinces and many small establishments processing hides and skins by labor
intensive methods exist alongside several large modern tanneries that are ex-
port oriented. The hides and skins sold by butchers are frequently bought by
commission agents for the large tanneries, otherwise by local traders. Typ-
ical prices obtained by the butchers are Rs 100 to 200 for a cowhide, Rs 40
to 120 for a buffalo hide, Rs 20 for a sheepskin and Rs 40-45 for a goatskin.
There is a 40% ad valorem export duty on hides and skins. While this duty
helps to secure supplies for the domestic tanneries it adds to the incentives
for smuggling, particularly of goat and sheep skins to Iran.
4.08      Wool and hair is mostly bought by itinerant collectors and sold to
wholesalers in major market centers. In wholesale warehouses it is graded,
sorted and washed for sale to spinning mills or for export. Export wool is
officially graded. Producer prices vary substantially with export market
values and an increasing percentage of the clip is being used by local mills
and by carpet manufacturers. An export duty on wool (equivalent to about 40%
ad valorem) coupled with the relatively high and stable prices of wool in
Afghanistan encourage illegal exports to that country. About 1 M to 1.5 M lbs
of fine wool are imported annually.
The Marketing of Milk
4.09      In rural areas lacking a fresh milk market, milk surplus to family
consumption is converted to several prepared products, mainly ghee and boiled
curd. A variety of milk sweets, using the fat, protein and sugar fractions
of milk in various combinations, are also produced. The utilization value of
milk for ghee, worth about Rs 18 at the farmgate, is equivalent to about Rs
0.7 per liter for cow milk and Rs 1.0 for buffalo milk. Specialist milk
producers in and around urban areas traditionally sell fresh milk twice daily
1/   Dressing out percentages may be as low as 40% for calves and 45% for
older animals.



ANNEX I
Page 14
to middlemen who supply fixed groups of customers. This milk is usually
diluted with water in varying degree which results in considerable price
differentials.
4.10      Retails prices vary considerablly with the season of year being
highest in the hot months from March to September. Typical retail prices of
slightly adulterated milk would be:
March-Sept.      Oct.-Feb.
Rs               Rs
Cows milk per liter               1.7 - 2.0       1.3 - 1.6
Buffalo milk per liter            2.2 - 2.5       1.8 - 2.0
Producer prices are usually Rs 0.2 - 0.4 less, roughly half going to the mid-
dlemen and half for transport costs. An important feature of the traditional
system of milk collectors and their supplier is the provision of credit by the
collector, thereby binding the producer to a form of supply contract.
4.11      Milk and milk products constitute an important item of household
expenditure and account for about 18% of average spending on all food and
drink. An appreciable but quantitatively unknown proportion of the national
milk supply is produced in urban areas by "city cattle", kept both by entre-
preneurs as well as by individual families who keep a ccw as the most prac-
tical means of obtaining a regular supply of good quality fresh milk.
4.12      Some 21 milk processing plants have been constructed throughout Pak-
istan, their toal capacity being 350,000 liters per day. Many of these plants,
mostly in the private sector, are no longer in operation, being unable to at-
tract adequate supplies of milk. In the public sector three milk schemes
have been launched with UNICEF, FAO and WFP assistance, at Karachi (1965),
Lahore 1967 and Islamabad (1974). The Karachi plant has a daily intake of
about 3,000 litres, a capacity of 25,000 litres and an output, largely of re-
constituted milk of 18,000-20,000 liters. The Lahore plant has a similar
capacity and is selling about 17,000 1/day, about half of which is reconsti-
tuted milk. The Islamabad plant is a particularly small one of 5,000 1/day
capacity. Its milk supply is partially assured by association with a Gov-
ernment dairy farm. Nonetheless, WFP have undertaken to supply the skim
milk powder and butter oil necessary to ensure its economic operation.
4.13      In spite of the clear cut failure of existing milk schemes and
processing plants, the development and expansion of organized dairy and meat
marketing operations is of paramount importance. The failure of existing
plants has been predicated by their pursuit of a dual objective; the pro-
vision of high quality but low-priced milk for the urban population. The low
purchase price of milk this objective necessitates encourages farmers to sell
their milk to vendors rather than to the plant. The availability of low-
priced milk, reconstituted from imported gift milk products, has further dis-
couraged the growth of local production. Fortunately, experience in other



ANNEX I
Page 15
parts of the subcontinent indicates that central milk processing and market-
ing can be a highly attractive and viable operation when farmers are assured
of incentive prices and a secure and stable outlet for their milk.
4.14      Annual imports of milk products have varied greatly from year to
year, they approximate from Rs 25 M annually apart from the gift powder and
butter oil of WFP origin.
Price Policy
4.15      In an attempt to restrain inflationary pressures Government is at-
tempting to check price increases in milk, meat, poultry and eggs. Meatless
days have been prescribed in each province except Baluchistan. Mlaximum re-
tail prices have also been established and occassional legal action has been
taken to enforce compliance. Official prices are however extremely difficult
to enforce. No allowance is made for quality, nor for the proportion of lean
and fat to bone in meat. Prices in butcher shops continue to rise and most
of the impact of the official controls appears to be in encouraging consumer
resistance to higher prices. In economic terms the merit of the controlled
prices is questionable as it is quite clear that substantially increased
producer prices, for beef particularly, are essential if any substantial in-
crease in output is to occur. Present beef production is almost entirely a by-
product of milk production and draft power. Inevitably, beef produced in this
manner is of poor quality, and as it has been in ample supply until recently,
market prices have been very low. Now that demand is overtaking supply,
specific beef production operations involving the specialized rearing of
calves, presently slaughtered or dying at a young age, will be necessary.
This practice will, however, only be possible at prices almost double those of
current beef prices.  As the quality of the younger beef these calves could
produce would be very much better than traditional curry beef, a differential
price for beef of varying quality is inevitable if beef rearing is to be
encouraged. While existing price controls prevail, the incentive prices re-
quired to produce an improved supply of beef of any type simply do not exist.
V. Supporting Technical Services
5.01      Following the constitutional changes of 1970 the Federal Government
is responsible for overall policy in agriculture but implementation of this
policy is a Provincial Government responsibility. Development programs are
financed by the Federal Government and ongoing regular programs by Provincial
Government. Development proposals larger than Rs 10 million (US$1 million)
are subject to the approval of the Economic Coordinating Committee of the
National Economic Council. Federal livestock policy is largely determined by
two bodies (i) the Livestock Division of the Ministry of Agriculture whose
decisions are strongly influenced by the guidelines established by the Plan-
ning Commission within the Ministry of Finance; (ii) The National Livestock
Development Committee - a group comprising the Directors of Animal Husbandry
of each province, the Director of the Agricultural Research Council and repre-
sentatives of the military farms, the Ministry of Commerce and the banking



ANNEX I
Page 16
sector. The proposals of this committee are subject to review by the High
Powered Agricultural Committee (HPAC) prior to submission for approval to the
Cabinet Committee.
5.02      The responsibility of Provincial Animal Husbandry units of Govern-
ment generally cover animal health, vaccine production, livestock research,
livestock development projects and extension. Funds for livestock programs
originate from federal, provincial and local government sources and are chan-
nelled through two budgets, the annual development program (ADP), and non-
development expenditures. ADP is funded entirely from federal sources for
approved projects up to a five year period. The ADP budget for 1974/75 was
Rs 226 M. Non-development expenditure on animal husbandry in the four major
provinces was budgeted at Rs 27.3 in 1974/75, mainly for district hospitals
and dispensaries.
Veterinary Services
5.03      A large number of cattle diseases are endemic to Pakistan.  Import-
ant among those of cattle and buffalo are foot and mouth disease, haemorrhagic
septicaemia (H.S.), mucosal disease complex, blackquarter, anthrax, gastro-
intestinal parasitism and schistosomiasis. The most important diseases in
sheep are sheep pox, enterotoxemia and parasitism, while contagious pleuro-
pneumonia is the main disease problem with goats. In poultry, Mareks disease,
Leucosis, Newcastle disease, Mycoplasmosis and Coccidiosis are the main
problems.
Disease Control
5.04      The Animal Health Service of Punjab is made up by about 600 veteri-
nary graduates and 1,600 stock assistants. In Sind and NWFP there are some
80 veterinarians and 550 stock assistants in each province, and a lesser num-
ber (30 and 400 respectively) in Baluchistan. The most important constraint
to the effective use of these sizeable numbers of staff is considered to be
adequate transport. Vaccination coverage of cattle and buffalo against
H.S. and Rinderpest is considered to be reasonable in Punjab but vaccine
coverage of sheep and goats, and non-commercial poultry is extremely limited.
Adequate data on the epidemiology of various diseases, on precise vaccination
coverage and economic loss are lacking.
5.05      Three agricultural universities provide veterinary training and pro-
duce 110 veterinary graduates each year. (Sind Agricultural College 20 veteri-
nary graduates, Agricultural University, Lyallpur 70 veterinary graduates, and
the College of Animal Husbandry, Lahore 20 veterinary graduates). Professional
livestock development staff in the Departments of Animal Husbandry are almost
exclusively veterinarians. Although there is unemployment among agricultural
and science graduates, there is still a shortage of veterinarians in the coun-
try as well as a strong demand for Pakistan veterinary graduates from nearby
Middle East countries. Agricultural graduates receive minimal training in



ANNEX I
Page 17
animal husbandry. The location in Punjab of the two major veterinary facul-
ties also poses problems for the other provinces in obtaining adequate uni-
versity places and in attracting Punjab graduates. An important imbalance in
the distribution of veterinarians results.
5.06      Ruminant vaccine production is handled by the Veterinary Research
Institute in Lahore and Peshawar; poultry vaccines are produced by the Poultry
Research Institute in Karachi and the VRI Lahore. Each Institute is under
Provincial responsibility and although the VRI at Lahore has a national supply
responsibility there are problems of availability. Vaccines are supplied free
of charge to farmers and availability of funds for vaccine production and for
the transport required to ensure effective field use for continual constraints
to effective disease control. Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is ubiquitous and
is particularly prevalent at the onset of the kharif and rabi seasons, periods
when the demand for draft animals is at a maximum. Present FMD vaccine
production (60,000 doses annually) is most inadequate and presents a key
constraint to increasing agricultural production.
5.07      Veterinary Research is the responsibility of the VRIs at Lahore and
Peshawar, and the PRI in Karachi. The main research activities are in disease
diagnosis and vaccine production. Animal production research has been ex-
tremely limited, but some steps to change this situation are underway in a
joint GOP/USAID agricultural research program. The main Livestock Produc-
tion Research Facility is at Bahadurnagar and each province maintains a num-
ber of Livestock Farms (69 in total covering 100,000 acres) as does the Uni-
versity of Lyallpur.
5.08      The major task of the government livestock farms is to promote
genetic improvement through the selection of indigenous stock and by cross-
ing with imported stock. In varying degree most farms are concerned with
commercial production and do not have, or pursue, clear cut research objec-
tives. Artificial insemination has been initiated in Punjab but the number
of inseminations carried out is still small.
Agricultural Credit
5.09      The Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) is the largest
institutional lender to agriculture in Pakistan. The Bank has received three
IDA credits since 1965 and a fourth credit is pending. Lending for livestock
has formed only 4% of ADB's loan portfolio, mainly for poultry farming. The
commercial banking sector, nationalized in 1973, has only recently been active
in agricultural lending. The cooperative credit system (the only significant
function of cooperatives in Pakistan at present) provides through ADBP about
Rs 40 M in short and medium term credit, mainly for crop loans and irriga-
tion. Toccavi loans from GOP for land improvement amount to about Rs 10 M
annually. Demand for institutional credit for livestock development appears
modest as only Rs 16 M of the Rs 61 M allocated for livestock credit were
utilized in 1974.



ANNEX I
Page 18
Statutory Boards
5.10      The only statutory body in the country with special reponsibility
for livestock development is the Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry De-
velopment Board, created in November 1973. The board has wide powers to
borrow, to establish companies and to engage in production and trade. It
is intended to play a major role in the livestock industry by promoting
commercial projects in beef, milk and poultry production, in central milk
schemes, in meat processing and in export operations.
VI. Livestock Development Programs
6.01      The recent report of the Agricultural Inquiry Committee of GOP
(June 1975) emphasizes the need to increase the output of meat and milk,
primarily by increasing productivity. At the practical level specialized
dairy and poultry farmers have been exempted from tax, and maize for poultry
feed is subsidized. The ban on beef exports has also been partly lifted to
allow the export of an undefined part of the incremental output of any beef
project financed in part by an international source.
6.02      Several proposals for large scale livestock development and marketing
programs, to be jointly financed by GOP and bilateral sources, are in the
feasibility planning stage. The most ambitious of these is the PAK - Iran
project which envisages exporting 7,500 tons of boned beef annually to Iran.
A joint venture with Abu Dhabi plans to develop 50,000 ac. for crop and
livestock production near Karachi with 50% of the livestock output of 7,500
sheep and 15,000 cattle going to the export market. The King Ranch also has a
feasibility study underway for a beef ranch in the Baluchistan area.
VII. The Potential for Improvement
7.01      There are several reasons to anticipate that substantial increases
in livestock production are possible in Pakistan. Present crop and livestock
yields are low and leave large scope for improvement, extensive programs for
improved technology involving genetic change, feed supplementation and market
organization have yet to be put into practice and many Pakistani farmers dis-
play a strong response to technological and market innovations made available
to them. This said, it must be stressed there are many serious constraints of
a physical, price and institutional character which continue to hold back the
agricultural and livestock potential of the country.
7.02      In Annex 2 the constraints to increase agricultural production are
analyzed. This exercise indicates that increasing the number and productivity
of draft cattle (or tractors) is essential if an intensification of crop pro-
duction is to occur, and if sufficient fodder and cereals are to be grown to
enable a more intensive and productive livestock industry to flourish. Crop-
ping intensity, labor use in agriculture and milk (and/or beef) output would



ANNEX I
Page 19
thereby be markedly increased (Annex 2). To the extent that mechaniza-
tion can replace draft animals, increased milk and meat production could
readily absorb the feed draft animals would otherwise consume--the sub-
stitution ratio between medium sized tractors (35 - 45 HP) and bullocks being
about 1 tractor to 15 pair of bullocks--but given the small size of most
farms, the extremely limited number of tractors presently in use, the foreign
exchange costs in tractor purchase and maintenance, and the tendency for
farmers to keep bullocks for light work even when tractors are available, it
appears that the dependence of Pakistan on draft animals for land cultivation
is unlikely to change rapidly. The main constraint to achieving greater
productivity - as measured in land area cultivated - of existing bullocks lies
in the coincidence of the cultivation and grain threshing tasks. Mechaniza-
tion of grain threshing is a much simpler, cheaper and more practical opera-
tion than mechanizing land cultivation, and provides one important technique
that could increase farm productivity. Control of FMD, which seriously reduces
the work capacity of draft, is also of great importance.
7.03      Increasing milk production is the most practical immediate ob-
jective for increasing the direct output of the livestock sector, given the
present pricing structure. Returns from milk presently favors the buffalo
as a milk producing animal, whereas increased cow numbers are desireable to
increase the choice of draft animals available. The feed utilization ef-
ficiency of indigenous cattle and buffaloes is essentially similar. It is
important to note that the potential for increasing milk production in cat-
tle is substantially greater than in the buffalo. A massive crossbreeding,
fodder development, preventive vaccination, milk marketing and processing,
extension, research and institutional credit could lift milk production and
small farm incomes very substantially. At present, however, the basic re-
sources required to achieve these production and equity objectives are limited.
There are few exotic dairy animals in Pakistan with the genetic potential for
high milk production, reasonable quality feed supplies are critically short,
trained and experienced personnel are below requirements, problem - oriented
research information is lacking and the livestock extension service is largely
ineffective. Further, milk marketing is poorly organized and public process-
ing plants subsidize urban milk prices at the expense of the producers.
The development of Al services reaching the village level, the formation of
livestock associations that act as focal points for milk marketing, and the
improvement of livestock research and extension services are the key steps
required.
7.04      The primary function of Pakistan's cattle is to provide draft power
and it follows that the acceptance by farmers of crossbreeding to exotic bulls
will depend in large degree on their perception of the draft capacity of the
crossbred bullocks thereby produced. Evidence on this matter suggests that
crossbred bullocks are adequate draft animals, crossbred bullocks exhibit
greater heat stress during grain threshing but apparently cope with other
tasks as well as indigenous animals but a widespread demonstration of the
reality of this observation is essential to the success of a crossbreeding



ANNEX I
Page 20
program.  In this context it is also important to keep in mind that the number
of calves born to each village cow in its lifetime of 10 - 12 years is 4 to 5,
and that the working life of a bullock is between the age of 4 years to 10
years. At present then, almost all males born of indigenous cows are required
for draft purposes. Where crossbred cows are maintained with adequate feeding,
significantly higher reproductive rates are encountered and because more
calves are then born by each cow, it is feasible to breed for female re-
placement by mating to a dairy sire, and for draft bullocks by mating to
draft type bulls. The problem that the small farmer faces is in understand-
ing that crossbreeding for milk production does not necessarily mean he can
no longer breed draft bullocks.
7.05      Development of increased beef production is seriously constrained
by the poor market price that all types of beef command, as well as by pres-
ent feed resources. These two factors are clearly interrelated; when cereal
grain has almost as high a price per unit weight as cattle, it is not sur-
prising that minimal quantities of cattle feed are grown. Further, when
milk has a much higher relative price than beef, it is clear that most fod-
der not required for draft animals will go to milk production. There is un-
doubtedly a large potential for increasing beef production. Beef is of
major importance in present consumption patterns and average carcase weights
are unduly suppressed by the premature annual slaughter (or death by starva-
tion) of some 0.25 million cattle calves and 1.0 million buffalo calves an-
nually. If financial incentives and feed resources existed to feed these
animals to mature body weights, an incremental 200,000 tons or more of
carcase meat could result. However, while controls on prices and on ex-
ports of livestock products prevail, programs and projects that seek to
raise beef production by growing out these young stock, though eminently de-
sireable, are fated to financial failure.
7.06      The rangelands of Pakistan make only a modest contribution to the
national supply of livestock fodder and the numbers of sheep and goats they
support provide only 10% of the nations meat supply. Rangeland improvement
is of particular importance in watershed catchments, but apart from increasing
further the stratification of the sheep and goat industry, and fattening lambs
and kids to heavier weights it appears unlikely that large increases in lamb,
mutton and wool production from the rangelands will be achieved in the near
term. There is the possibility that intensive mutton production from special-
ized sheep farms growing lucerne on irrigated soils would be financially
feasible but preliminary studies indicate that high opportunity costs for
irrigated land favor mixed crop and livestock production rather than intensive
mutton production.
7.07      The potential for increased poultry production, in the short term,
lies primarily in the noncommercial sector. Commercial egg and broiler pro-
duction demands the use of high energy density diets with rations based on
60% or more of crushed grain. Village poultry, crossed with exotic males,
produce progeny which when vaccinated for Newcastle disease can produce 150
eggs per bird on rations containing only 25% grain. Forty birds confined on a
deep litter system consume four tons of feed per year, three quarters of which
can be mill byproducts. The litter from these 40 birds contains sufficient



ANNEX I
Page 21
nutrients to raise crop yields by more than one ton. They are, therefore,
self sustaining in grain production and their egg and meat production is
chargeable only to the mill byproducts they consume.
Basic Conclusions
8.01      The general conclusions to be drawn from a review of the livestock
situation in Pakistan imply that in the present price and resource situation,
the inadequacy of draft power is a key constraint to the intensification of
farming patterns in Pakistan, that increases in dairy production of the order
of 200 1/ac are readily achievable and that beef production per se is not
likely to be undertaken by most farmers until livestock prices - at least for
good quality young beef animals-rise to about Rs 4/Kg (with other prices
at present levels).
8.02      In considering the livestock subsector as such, the overall im-
portance of dairying and draft bullocks should not be interpreted as a down-
grading of the important role of other livestock production activities in
providing a livelihood to many other landless or dryland farmers. Large in-
creases in poultry production, particularly from using low grain density
rations in deep litter enclosures, and in the rangeland breeding of sheep
and goats are worthy and attainable objectives. In assessing development
priorities it is important to emphasize there is no single operational
strategy which suits all farms, all rural strata and all geographic and social
conditions equally well; flexibility in objectives, in technology, in support
services and in institutional structure are essential if meaningful production
increases in specific situations are to be attained.
8.03      The most difficult task in attaining any specific and carefully
planned production goal is likely to be the necessity for community effort
amongst farmers, be it in operating a just and equitable village livestock
association, or in agreeing on a non-exploitive grazing pattern for communal
lands and water points. The institutional structure of rural Pakistan, and
the credit, market and extension problems this structure engenders for small
farmers, exacerbate these difficulties of communal action. In such matters
progress will inevitably be slower than hoped for, but there is reason to be
optimistic about the potential improvements possible, and to believe that
the accumulated experience of recent years will lead to an increasingly rapid
achievement of production benefits.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Optimal Farm Management Patterns
1.        The Punjab Province of Pakistan comprises some 40 million acres
of which 40% are alluvial, low lying soils within the river system known as
the Indus Basin. The remaining 60% consist of rainfed uplands that merge into
the foothills of the Himalayas. Underlying the soils of the Basin system are
courser strata of sand and gravel that form a large groundwater reservoir
with a water table usually within 5 to 10 feet of the soil surface. The ele-
vation of the Basi soils approximates 500 feet at a latitude of 300 to 320
North.  The lowest maximum monthly mean temperature (65  F) occurs during
January and the maximum monthly mean occurs in June (1100 - 1150 ).  Lahore
receives 15 to 20 inches of rainfall annually, most of which falls in the
period June to September. Summer tempratures are slightly cooler but the
humidity is higher, in the northern areas of the Basin system than in the
south and precipitation declines rapidly from North to South.
2.        Nearly 13 million acres of the Punjab are served by a network of
perennial and non-perennial canals, the areas comanded by the canals being
large relative to the water supplies the canal system was designed to pro-
vide. Wate availability varies greatly from year to year, season to season
and region to region. Some 40 ac inches in the kharif and 24 ac inches in
the rabi appear typical in many northern areas. Although tractors are pop-
ular most land cultivation is carried out by draft cattle. The annual work
capacity of one pair of animals is regarded as sufficient for about 10 to 12
acres at prevailing cropping intensities of 110%.
3.        Farmers in the irrigated areas of Punjab are engaged mainly in the
production of irrigated field crops for both home consumption and sale. They
keep cattle principally for draft, and buffalo principally for milk produc-
tion. Because of low prices for meat animals surplus calves are usually
fed minimal amounts of feed and are sold or die at less than a year of age.
Historical cropping patterns, based on 25 acre farms in the original settle-
ments, have involved essentially a fallow-crop-fallow rotation in which
about 45% of the land is idle in the kharif and 55% left fallow in the rabi.
Rabi crops include wheat, gram, oilseeds and berseem for fodder with short
term pulses grown on residual kharif moisture; kharif crops include cotton,
maize, sorghum, rice and kharif pulses and fodder. Along with sugar cane,
whose culture extends through both seasons, these crops account for about
96% of the crop area in the Province. Winter wheat and summer cotton com-
pete for both land and labor as the picking time of cotton seriously delays
wheat planting, whereas maize and rice-are summer crops that can be harvested
before wheat. The specific areas of each crop grown, the livestock carried
on each farm, and the product yields obtained for consumption and sale are
determined principally by the availability of irrigation water, fertilizers,
capital and labor, together with input and output prices. Other important



ANNEX 2
Page 2
considerations which influence decison making by the farmer on level land
are believed to include risk distribution by growing several crops, limiting
the working capital in use, and maximizing net returns. The monthly pro-
file of labor, bullock power and water requirements show a marked peak in
April and October caused by the short cultivation period available for plant-
ing before optimal crop planting dates are exceeded.
4.        In an attempt to assist in the identification of key constraints
within the existing system, and of the improvement practices which might
maximize the farm production and revenue, a simple model of the more important
farm management alternatives available in the Punjab has been constructed
and analyzed by the method of linear programing. 1/
5.        The model (Table 1, figure 1) is made up of six basic components:
(i)  a set of farm activities (the columns of Table 1)
representing the various crop and livestock pro-
duction possibilities each farmer can choose amongst;
(ii) an objective function (the row "Return") measuring
the expected farm gross margin for each farm activ-
ity (the expected unit yield times the sales price,
less the specific cash production cost of one unit
of that farm activity);
(iii) a set of farm resources, constraints and seasonal
inputs requirements for each farm activity includ-
ing livestock feed (rows Land Use to Protein);
(iv) the annual working capital requirments for each farm
activity (capital row);
(v)  the constraints assumed on the farm resources available
or imposed on specific farm activities by market or other
consisderations (the R.H.S.);
(vi) A set of additional rows and columns entered to facilite
the parametric analysis of the data and the search for
sub optimal solutions.
6.        The calculated solution of the farm management pattern is obviously
influenced by key assumptions built into the data base. In this case the more
important of these specify that the sugar area on the model farm cannot exceed
1/   The data used is compiled from information obtained from farmers
in the Central Punjab by the Punjab Livestock Board and the IDA
livestock Appraisal Mission.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
one pair of bullocks (providing 100 days of work in trhe kharif and 175 days
in rabi), one cattlp cow and calf and 2 buffalo cows and their young. Other
important assumptions include the maximum quantity of water available (56
ins/ac in the kharif and 32 ins/ac in the rabi), the quantity of family labor
available (390 man days in 5 months of the kharif and 550 in the 7 months of
the rabi ) and the quantity of working capital the farmer can make avail-
able (Rs 20,000). A 12.5 acre farm has been used as the basic model size,
and water charges have been costed at Rs 20/ac of each crop grown irrespec-
tive of crop irrigation requirements, a common practice in Pakistan.
7.        The farming model depicted has been kept as small and simple as
possible by dividing the cropping year into 2 seasons only. A disaggrega-
tion of these two seasons into shorter time periods would allow a more pre-
cise fit of resources to the varying requirements of the various farm ac-
tivities. A more disaggregated model is, however, less amenable to the
parametric analysis used in examining the optimal farm management pattern.
To minimize the problem caused by peak bullock power requirements occurring
in October-November          an additional constraint on bullock power avail-
ability in this period (40 days maximum work) has been added.
The Analytical Method
8.        The Burroughs Mathematical Programming System TEMPO, was used to
identify the combination of farm activities that would maximize farm revenue
within the resources and constraints established in the model, to undertake a
sensitivity analysis of the returns for each farm activity, and to carry out a
parametic analysis of the impact on the solution of changing the resource
contraints.
9.        Because the input-output relationship describing agricultural yields
as a function of input usage is generally curvilinear, the increase in gross mar-
gin per unit area is increasingly insensitive to input usage, particularly a-
bove 50 percent of the input value which produces the optimal financial yield.
The analysis has therfore been extended to seek solutions which provide 90 per-
cent of the income of the optimal solution and which sequentially minimize the
use of land, water, working captial, draft power and family labor.
10.       The facility the "Tempo" computor program provides to explore the
changes that occur in the optimal soultion, given variations in the basic es-
timates that make up the model, is a most important feature of the analysis.
It means that while precision in estimating the gross margin, input and work-
ing capital requirements of each activity is most desirable, it is not essen-
tial that these be exactly correct because the methodology used provides in-
formation regarding the cost of making alternative decisions and of reallo-
cating scarce resources. System break points can thereby be identitified and
attention focused on the more critically sentsitive inputs.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The Optimal Solution
11.       The farming pattern which maximizes farm revenue of the 12.5 acres at
Rs. 18247 is shown in Table 2. The crops grown include wheat, berseem and
sugar in the rabi and HYV rice, cotton sugar and fodder in the kharif. The
cropping intensity indicated is 137%, the emphasis being on kharif crops.
Basmati rice, maize, oilseeds and grain would enter the solution if the gross
margins per ha they produced were increased by Rs 93, 153, 30 and 130 respec-
tively. The area of sugar grown and livestock numbers on the farm are held down
by the constraints imposed on their upper limits. If no such constraints existed
the solution would include about 3 acres of sugar, a greatly increased fodder
area and much greater emphasis on milk production. Working capital require-
ments would then be substantially increased.
12.       The resource use which the optimal solution calls for is summarized
in Table 3. The availability of kharif land, of bullock power in the kharif
and October period, and of livestock protein feed, are the tight constraints
to this solution. The shadow prices for an extra acre cf land, in the circum-
stances where neither water nor family labor are limiting factors, would lead
to an incremental income of Rs 1034 per acre in the kharif and Rs 0 in the rabi.
largely because bullock power in the Kharif is in surplus supply, whereas it
is worth Rs 48 per bullock per day in the critical October period. Incremen-
tal protein production for livestock would be worth Rs 4.5 and Rs 1.4 per kg
in the kharif and rabi seasons respectively, whereas incremental TDN produc-
tion in both the rabi and kharif has negligible value as protein in the lim-
iting feed.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Table 3
Resource Use in Optimal Solution
Resource         Solution Value           Resource Not Used         Shadow Price
Land Use K            12.5                         0                      1034
Land Use R             8.4                         0                         0
Irrigation
Water K              489                       275                        0
Irrigation
Water R              242                        33                         0
Bullock Pair
Days K               100                         0                     10.5
Bullock Pair
Days R               124                        22                         0
Bullock Pair
Days Oct/Nov          40                         0                       48
Family Labor K         314                        96                         0
Family Labor R         408                        77                         0
Capital              16019                      3330                         0
TDN K                                              0
TDN R                                           4077
DP K                                               0
DP R                                               0
Parametric Analysis of the Resource Situation
13.       The individual farms of Pakistan differ greatly in the resources
available to them; in farm working capital, in bullock power and in farm la-
bor availability. The analysis of the optimal solution has been extended to
estimate the effect of steadily changing the resource availability assumed
in the basic solution. A similar parametric analysis is also possible on the
returns used for each farm activity. Examples of the effects of changes in
the availability of the more important farm resources follow, together with
an example of the consequences of a price change in cotton.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
The Effect of Farm Size
14..      The size of farms in Pakistan varies greatly and resource avail-
ability per unit area of land tends to decline with decreases in farm area.
In this analysis, resource availability other than land has been held at the
level assumed for 12.5 ac farm and farm size then progressively reduced.
The availability of bullock power on the 12.5 acre basic unit was the key
constraint to greater output, thus in this analysis farm income per unit area
rises as farm size (Table 4) is reduced. Cropping intensity increases as
farm size decreases and the proportion of sugar, wheat, rice and fodder crops
increases at the expense of cotton. Milk production remains a key activity
throughout but cattle and buffalo fattening cease to be part of the optimal
solution on the smaller properties. The captial needs per acre of the smaller
farms are, however, very much larger than on medium sized properties even
though bullock pairs are assumed to be divisible by sharing. This high cap-
ital need reflects the important role of milk production and the price of
buffalo cows in the small farm solution.
The Effect of Water Availability
15.       MIany farming areas of the Punjab have much less water available
than a potential 56 acres inches in the kharif and 32 acres inches in the
rabi - the resource assumptions of the basic model. The optimal solution
actually uses 39 ac ins in the kharif and 29 ac ins in the rabi. In the
parametric analysis of water availability, the potential quantity available
in each season has been steadily reduced from the 700 ac ins of the Kharif
and the 400 ac ins of the Rabi (12.5 ac x 56 ins and 12.5 ac x 32 ins). A
20% reduction does not effect the cropping pattern as it still leaves a small
surplus unused.  (Table 5)  With further reductions of 20%, the first effect
is to reduce the rice area and to introdiuce maize cropping. With further
reductions in the water supply the area of rice and cotton declines sharply,
with maize becoming more important. Sugar, maize, fodder and milk produc-
tion remain as key activites even when water is in extremely short supply.
It is interesting to note that large changes in water availablity are re-
quired before large changes in farm income occur.



t Q
N fH
ott
It l         1                             t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -3,9
i'll  ¶                   i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3000t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ef  O. a.Ac- OI-Oit  0S.0O.qq  t  v-    t  f.    t-a-    f. al
0081         1                                                2                                                                                                                                                                                                                           aS
ng   X            t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    te7nt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  f  t-t  u
*       * 0      *1*           *0 t       lat-    ii.       et       SI.      *3t.  esv-   sor;.  tetl-   0 -          o          0          ii.      00       usW     501-   0*.      033.   003   00 t   e333    34              s£
£   s                                                                                       Z                                                                                                                                                    sM7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eo  t  I
3  1                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                    Ii.,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-  I    t  q-1  v  s
WII                                                                                                                                                                                  St               et                                                         V: S-  t
94c          t                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
I  ¶                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t0                  s-              4
3  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
i~ ~ ~~~1ZV                                                  |                                                                                                                    n 
*            @                                                          t I                                                        tt*   eIi  t' 0?        -      M1'0
o            *0 i0 O-    e0-    0.                                                                                                                                013                             353               0        0                      43    *        9                         x(4*3
e                                                                                             tl                                  oil.  tttt.    eot-   ett-    out-        e3        t~ o06 ent                       3     0(tl     ecl    itt   tl 4                   000 rt   
I t                           Kt-.  git-   1100    30t       Mll        30       b-i-        0003               Kt      (0                     000   oIL    001                    0.3      31
e  *   .  .U -*r
t7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                                                                             3 I.30
f                                                                                                                                                                                            3'l  v  -  It 3'l-0
*                                                    3                                                             I             -5       ci-    SI       0i       oi                             o* t               3-1-     3-    .        et-    s.    4-       0-      0-           3ty1
*            3                              . 
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    6 0'0 *. 10 00-  Si                e (3  o3    31   ** 33    33  33    I* e                  r
l~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.3
000-     ~s                                                                                                                                                                                          33      i?       00    00       03 iy    . Xt   t  1 x/ Og  e rL*e     t   r 1t se  t  n t  hw r  t.  n
000~~~~~~~i ,0                                                                                                                                                        00                03 o  I3    0u                       s0 1                         03 
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~ s                                                                                                         ' x3 x0    0t                    x0  it                        *0 x         O* *  flOw
SX   XtS   1'l18.3    *-2-"t*'t*4'q  ?*wj    ;1j.  t4"  'bl4-]   7)'~~~~1~*-2;t-1]h"   1X,",;tX  ,^n   ,,t,v,  ;v    ,w,¢",,  ,,,,.',   s4°t    *.rt,,t,    nt   .0,_,w,,,Jwa.,t,,   ,                    ,,9,,~3-
*1-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,. *,...i 0  . 0  1 (. 0. 3       3        4     '3      00     03          0         0         9         00         0      33      00       1       1-3     33    tl       03     300
0  u  0  o       0          i           t         *        ,        ;         o        ~        ~             0         0         0           0        3       34 11,.1.-                     3i*             0      1
*  I  3  0               I          3           0         1        0        34        A      A      0       2         3         0         34          e        U       0        £      0        1       I       1     3      1^-zlbiii



Annex 2
Table 2
Optimal Solution to Farm Managerment Patterr
"rice Increase Required
ctivity                 Solution Value             Gross Margin           to Enter Solution
heat                        4.4                       630                        -
as. Rice                      0                      1020                       93
YV Rice                     5.8                      1102                       -
aize                          0                       770                      153
otton                       2.1                      1055                       -
Ulseeds                       0                       140                       30
ham                           0                       330                      130
igar                        2.0                      2170
irseem                      1.2                       -60
larif Fodder                1.7                       -50
illock Pairs               1.0                          0
tffalo Cows                2.0                        900
-ttle Cows                 1.0                        600
!falo Fatteners            2.0                        300
.ttle Fatteners            1.0                        2C0
rm Ic (? £e    )         18247



viiSiONI 27,''11,5GO                                                        Pi KI51AN  FARM  MODEL
PAIT      I   Q1     I
PACOE      I
S 8i r Hs t G C S 84 K T T B B C B C L L O D P P F F P P C w W R C C C C C C C                                    R    S 
M  A ?7 A I fl 'O U E F V f U U A U A H Fl E E P P L L I I it A A H R R R R R R R                                 A   C                                          v 
E S R S        L A 7 G      k O                                                                                       A K L C C F F K R K R K R K i K h P T 7 S   H H   F H H ii  N   A
T k  T S M T R S O h R L   0 1 T8S S S S S3 8   S S  T SS   S SSS S SS                                            C *L
L K  R    1          2 3  a S         C 7   E   C
LCj^It~ 6fUND
TYPL
mh!jCA.P    N                                                                                   I                                             MINCAP
m.4T        N                                                                                     IW M.lAT
HL0 D       ti                                                                            I I                                                 MLND
?LULL       N                                                                                                                                 HMlULIL
t'L6H       t                                                      I N              II                                                        MLABI
(' EJ       N      C D n C C C C 0.8-8                  C C C CA.A.A.A.A-A               -at-                                                   BJI
C' BJ       *                                                                           -C-C                                                   coa;
l Ub  S  l     T    I I T T I I T I                                                  1                                                    LUJAS                                 0
LLUR;       E      1 T         T  I T I T T                                                  1                                                LURS
I'r;        G        -t ..R-N    d_pBF   -5                                                      -1   -C  C        C      "C                  I'KS
I   S       6    -f            ij*f A .N-b                                                         -1-C  C         C       C                  INRS
L A         E.   -60A-vBr                           -i->-8-A-A   I                I                                                          LAKS
J. AS       CE                                      . 6a-iA-68. A     I                I                                                      LA4iS                                  , 
FHKA        C   -R. ,,.A.A-A                         a                                                               .8  a                    BPKti
8"P S          G   -1-    -1-A--i-A-A                C                                                               "C  C                     t P3
iC7Pf       G    -G            6      -lA            a                                                               .6  B                    C'Tl1PR
D           G         C C        C   S C    0 T.1-D-C-C.C-C              I                                                                    I0 o.
7)~6 i      G      C             C t     il D   -1   -D-C-C-C-C             I                                                                  TLVAS
",          G         A A 4         1 A    C       -C5-83-dia                 I                                                               DpKs                                    
CSe S      G   A       e A U A 13 C             -C-8B-d3S-a                  I                                                            OPRS
'ii!hV      L                                          I                                                A                                     Nobc
1F.,rtJ  ;.  |                               t                                     I]N)CO
P.6v -      L                                                 I                                         A                                      NiAFT
tilC  T     L                                                    I                                      I                                      NCFT
CAP         E    -C-C.t-Z.DZ8CC-C-1C'8              -0-D .C-C.A-A.A.A-A-A                 B8-B  I                                              C4P
L           tK                                                                      |                   C       C                              fLKS,j
FLA_        L                                                                          I                C      -C                              FLli5d
IrSi6       L                                                                                                     . 8  -8   8                 *RS5
I 6 6At     L                                                                                15                   .8        ti                 lksB
SuIGlh      L                                                                                           A                                      SUGiRfS
CAR8        U                                                                                   I       E   -E                                CAPL
09
C.  P
m 



Annex 2
Table 4
Influence of Declining Farm Size
Basic Solution       20%        40%          60%         80%
12.5 ac          10 ac      7.5 ai,  - .0 ?"         2$ ac
Farm Income           1821T-              15661      12877-       9362        4425
Land Use K            12.5                 10.0        7.5        5.0          2.5
Land Use R             8.4                  7.5        7.4        14.9         2.3
Capitol              16019                15178       J14421     11266        9217
Farm Lab K             314                  274        216         146          93
Farm Lab R             408                  368        335         266         157
TWheat                  4.4                 4.5        14.5        2.2         0.8
H-YV Rice              5.8                  5.6        3.3         1.14        0.7
Cotton                  2.1                   0           0          0           0
Maize                     0                   0           0          0           0
Sugar                   2.0                 2.0        2.0         2.0         0.9
Berseem                 1.2                 1.0        0.9         0.7         0.7
Kharif Fodder           1.7                 1.5        1.4         1.18        0.6
Bullock Pairs           1.0                 1.0        1.0         0.5         0.2
Buffalo Cows            2.0                 2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0
Cattle Cows             1.0                 1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0
Buffalo Fatteners       2.0                 0.8          0           0           0
Cattle Fatteners        1.0                   0          0           0           0



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Table 5
Influence of Declining Water Availability
Basic Solution        -20%       -40%        -60%        -80%
Farm Income           18247            18247      17924       15759        8529
Water Use K             489              489        420         280         140
Water Use R             242              242         240        160          80
Capital               16019            16286      17924       15759       10428
Farm Lab K              314              314        311         337         183
Farm Lab R              408              408        399         346         210
Wheat                   4.4              4.5        4.5         3.1         0.2
HYV Rice                5.8              5.8        3.6           0           0
Cotton                  2.1              2.1        2.6           0           0
Maize                     0                0         1.8        8.6         3.7
Sugar                   2.0              2.0        2.0         2.0         1.3
Berseem                 1.2              1.2        0.9         0.2         0.5
Kharif Fodder           1.7              1.7         1.6        1.0         1.0
Bullock Pairs           1.0              1.0         1.0        1.0         0.3
Buffalo Cows            2.0              2.0        2.0         2.0         1.0
Cattle Cows             1.0              1.0         1.0        1.0         2.0
Buffalo Fatteners       2.0              2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0
Cattle Fatteners        1.0                0           0        1.0           0
The Effect of Capital Availability
16.       The risk of the farmer is greatly influenced by the working capital
he requires for each years farming operations. For reasons of choice or neces-
sity he may need to limit his working capital to amounts substantially below
the Rs 16019 (RS1281 per ac year) the optimal solution calls for. In this
event important changes in the balance between crop and livestock production
are required if farm income is to be protected (Table 6). A reduction in
working capital leads to substantial reduction in the livestock activities
of the farm, with the fattening of young stock being the first activity to
disappear, followed by a decline in milk production as capital constraints
increase. Labor absorption per unit area also declines rapidly as working
capital constraints increase. Labor absorption per unit area also declines
rapidly as working capital becomes more limiting, but crop areas and farm
incomes are relatively resistant to moderate decreases in capital avail-
ability.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Table 6
Influence of Declining Captial Availability
Basic Solution        -20%        -40%       -60%        -80%
Farm Income           18247            18247       17756       16996      12877
Capital               16019            16000       12000        8000       4000
Farm labor K            314              313         268         231         185
Farm labor R            408              407         350         307        129
Water Use K             489              489         500         492         500
Water Use R             242              242         235         227          83
Wheat                   4.4              4.5         4.6         4.2           0
HYV Rice                5.8              5.8         5.6         4.9        4.3
Cotton                  2.1              2.2         3.4         4.8        8.0
Maize                     0                 0          0           0           0
Sugar                   2.0              2.0         2.0         2.0           0
Berseem                 1.2              1.6         0.6         0.16        0.1
Kharif Fodder           1.7              1.7         0.8         0.32        0.04
Bullock Pairs           1.0              1.0         1.0         0.89       0.35
Buffalo Cows            2.0              2.0         1.3           0           0
Cattle Cows             1.0              1.0           0           0           0
Buffalo Fatteners       2.0              2.0           0           0           0
Cattle Fatteners          0                0           0           0           0
The Effect of Declining Bullock Power
17.       As there are about 14 acres of cultivated land in Pakistan to each
pair of working bullocks, an upper limit of 1 pair of bullocks was imposed
for the 12.5 acre model. This quantity of draft power is insufficient to
utilize fully the other farm resources available and bullock power is a tight
constraint on the optimal solution, particularly at the time of wheat planting
and in the earlier kharif season. Had bullock numbers not been constrained the
optimal farming pattern would use about 1.3 bullock pairs. The work days per
season for each bullock pair have been assumed to average 100 in kharif, 175 in
the Rabi and 40 in the October-November period which overlaps the two seasons.
The difference between the draft power available in the rabi and kharif is
due, in part, to the 5:7 month ratio of the two seasons, and in part to the
lesser working time per day in the kharif due to the hot weather of that season.
In the event that work output per bullock pair per day declines, or that the
work input required per crop acre increases, the main change desireable in
the farming pattern is a marked reduction in the area of wheat and a moderate
increase in the cotton area (Table 7). Livestock production activites are
barely influenced by the productivity of draft animals and farm income shows
reasonable stability provided adequate changes are made in the cropping
pattern. Limitations to seasonal bullock power availability are greatly
magnified by the probability of non-predictable disease outbreaks which



ANNEX 2
Page 9
markedly reduce draft power at any one period of time and prevent a farmer
making timely changes in the optimal cropping patterns. Clearly a key factor
determining the area sown to wheat is the availability of draft power in the
October planting season.
Table 7
Influence of Declining Bullock Power
Basic Solution       -20%       -40%       -60%      -80%
Farm Income               18247           17654     16519      14127       7956
Capital                   16019           15834     15494      14809      13119
Farm Labor K                314             298        294       276        184
Farm Labor R                408             393       356        262        154
Water Use K                 489             462        503       483        193
Water Use R                 242             232        176        115        59
Wheat                       4.4             3.4        1.0         0          0
HYV Rice                    5.8             4.8        6.0       5.0          0
Cotton                      2.1             3.2        2.3       4.8        3.4
Sugar                       2.0             2.0       2.0        0.5          0
Maize                         0               0          0          0       2.8
Berseem                     1.2             1.2        1.2       1.3        0.7
Kharif Fodder               1.7             1.8        1.7       1.8        1.2
Bullock Pairs               1.0             1.0        1.0       1.0          1
Buffalo Cows                2.0             2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Cattle Cows                 1.0             1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0
Buffalo Fatteners           2.0             2.0        2.0       2.0          0
Cattle Fatteners            1.0               0          0         0          0
The Effect of Family Labor Availability
18.       Survey data indicate that larger farms, being multi-family farms
in many cases, tend to have more family labor available in total but less per
acre than small farms. In the model used, family labor has been shadow priced
at zero and purchased labor at Rs 10 per day. The parametric analysis sum-
marized in Table 8 shows the effect of reducing the availability of family la-
bor per farm unit, i.e. of steadily increasing the wage cost of labor. Gross
farm income shows a steady decline commensurate with increasing expenditure
on purchased labor. Changes in farming patterns with increasing labor costs
are associated with a rapid reduction in young stock fattening, a slower re-
duction in milk production, a reduction in the area rice and an increase in
the cotton area. Wheat and sugar production activities are largely unchanged
by increased labor costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Table 8
Influence of Declining Family Labor Availability
Basic Solution       -25        -50      -75         100%
Farm Income              18247           18232      16349      14003     11653
Farm Labor K               314             292        195       97.5         0
Farm Labor R               408             384        275      137.5         0
Capital                  16019           15353       8976      11251     13601
Labor Hire K                 0               0          0         91       188
Labor Hire R                 0               0         47        185       322
Wheat                      4.4             4.5        4.7        4.7       4.7
HYV Rice                   5.8             5.5        0.6          0          0
Cotton                     2.1             2.9        8.8        9.5       9.4
Sugar                      2.0             2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0
Berseem                     1.2            0.9        0.2        0.2       0.2
Kharif Fodder               1.7            1.3        0.5        0.5       0.5
Bullock Pairs              1.0             1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0
Buffalo Cows               2.0             2.0          0          0         0
Cattle Cows                1.0             1.0          0          0         0
Buffalo Fatteners          2.0               0          0          0         0
Cattle Fatteners             0               0          0          0         0
The Role of Cotton Prices
19.       A parametic analysis of the consequences of price changes in each
farm product is readily carried out using the Tempo Program. To ilustrate
the impact that prices may have on specific crop area, the price of seed
cotton has been varied by + 30% (Table 9). As cotton prices increase, rice
areas decline markedly and give place to cotton, wheat areas marginally in-
crease and the fattening of cattle and buffalo disappears. Farm labor usage
declines, kharif water reuqirements decline and rabi water requirements
increase.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
Table 9       -
The Effect of Changes in Cotton Price
Cotton Price             GM/ac           GM/ac           GM/ac
738             1055            1375
Farm Income             17696            18247           20604
Water Use K               556              489             335
Water Use R                196             242             303
Labor K                   333               314            231
Labor R                   393               408            394
Wheat                     3.0              4.4             4.5
Rice                      8.0              5.8                0
Sugar                     2.0              2.0             2.0
Cotton                      0              2.1             2.2
Berseem                   1.3               1.2            0.85
K. Fodder                  1.8             1.7             0.53
Young Stock      Young Stock   No Young Stock
Fattened         Fattened        Fattened
Sub Optimal Solutions and Resource Use
20.       The preceeding parametric analysis of the Punjab model illustrates
that farm gross margins show a surprizing degree of insensitivity to optimal-
ity in the use of input levels. Thus a reduction of some 50% in individual
input useage (except land) is required to reduce farm revenue by some 10%. In
view of the many imponderables involved in estimating expected yields, prices
and input costs it is reasonable to argue that persuing optimal farm revenue,
and 90% of optimal farm revenue, is largely equivalent. In consequence, it
follows that optimal input levels are more informative when associated with the
90% value of the optimal solution, particularly so when the 90% of optimal
solution utilizes substantially less of a particular input than the optimal
solution requires. Realization of the extent of latitude in input usage this
90% of optimal solution allows a farm advisor a large degree of latitude in his
recommendations of input usage, and the opportunity of minimizing the risk
situation he exposes a farmer to in recommending greater levels of input.
To illustrate the flexibility available, farming solutions have been sought
which provide 90% of the farm revenue of the optimal solution i.e. Rs 16423
rather than Rs 18247 and which individually minimize the use of land, water,
capital, draft power and labor. A solution which maximizes labor use while
holding farm revenue at the 90% optimal level has also been included. The
results obtained are summarized in Table 10.



Annex Z
Table 10
-90% SoIutions and Resource Use
-Min-imi-aximizini-
Optimal    Land      Water      Capital     Draft Power  Labour   Labour
Prm Income (RIs)        18247      164i23   161423      16423         16423       16423    16423
-tivity
ieat                     4.4         4.5      3.4        2.75           0         4.1        3.5
as. Rice                   0           0        0            0          0            0         0
rV Rice                  5.8         5.7        0         4.5         5.7            0       7.2
size                       0           0      8.5            0          0            0         0
otton                    2.1         2.4      o.6         5.4         3.8          9.7         0
ilseeds                    0           0        0           0         2.2            0         0
ran                        0           0        0           0           0            0         0
ugar                     2.0         2.0      2.0         2.0         2.0          1.9       2.0
erseem                   1.2         1.0      G.2         0.1         1.1          0.1        .9
urchase Protein Kharif      0          0         0          0         389            0         0
harif Fodder             1.7         1.0      1.0         0.2           0          0.5       1.4
ullock Pairs             1.0         1.0      1.0         0.7         0.56         0.9       1.0
uffalo Cows              2.0         2.0      2.0           0         2.0            0       2.0
attle Cows               1.0         1.0      1.0           0         1.0            0       1.0
uffalo Fatteners         2.0         0.5      2.0           0         2.0            0       2.0
attle Fatteners          1.0          0       1.0           0         1.0            0       1.0
esource Use
and K                   12.5        10.9     12.5        12.5        12.5         12.5      12.5
and R                    8.4         8.2      5.9         7.0         5.7         10.0       9.6
-rigation Water K        4z89        466      104L       488          506          3145      505
rrigation Water R        242         238      229        202          210         400        333
ullcck Pair Days K       100         100      100        100          100           38       100
ullock pair Days R       121L        110       83        175          175          175        53
amily Labour K           311k       271       343        17I;         275         182        325
amily Labour R           h08        382       356        267          361j        303        48
apital                 26019      17132    16215        6794        15727        7709      16800



ANNEX 2
Page 12
General Conclusions
21.       In the present price and resource situation, the overall pattern of
farm output is most strongly influenced by uneven seasonal demands on the
availability of draft power, and by the availability of working capital.
Declines in working capital availability quickly reduce the role of meat
and milk production in the farming pattern; a decline in draft power reduces
the area of wheat.  Perhaps the most interesting feature of the results of
the analysis is the demonstration that farm incomes can be held at near op-
timal levels, given an appropriate response by the farmer, to changes of the
order of 50% in the individual availability of key resources.
22.       The role of product prices in increasing specific crop areas are
influenced by a number of interactions in resource use. Increases in the
present price of wheat appear likely to have a minimal impact on sown acreage
as draft power presently constrains the wheat areas sown. Increases in the
cotton price would, however, rapidly increase the cotton acreage and deplete
the rice area. At present prices, beef production achieved through fattening
young animals is a marginal activity and minor changes in resource availabil-
ity, and/or other product prices, quickly eliminate this activity from the
desired farming pattern. Farmers with access to irrigated land are unlikely
to buy livestock feed at prevailing milk:feed price ratios. Digestible pro-
tein is the food stuff in most limiting supply and it would only become at-
tractive for farmers able to grow fodder to purchase protein feed supplements
when the price falls to about Rs 1.5 per Kg (i.e. about Rs 0.7/Kg cotton seed
cake). Should livestock numbers not be constrained, the optimal farm pattern
would strongly emphasize increased milk production.
23.       The area of fodder crop that needs to be grown to support the live-
stock numbers shown in the optimal solution of the 12.5 ac farm is 1.2 acres
of berseem and 1.7 acres of kharif fodder. The impact on cereal production
of growing 1.2 acres of berseem can be considered negligible as cereal crops
following berseem show yields some 50% higher than normal. By contrast the
growing of kharif fodder involves high opportunity costs in terms of alter-
native resources use and attempts to increase fodder yields per unit area
are likely to show large benefits.
24.       In summary, the results of the analysis outlined suggest a concen-
tration of the development effort in Punjab on minimizing calamitous drops in
draft power availability, on encouraging dairy production as a byproduct of
general crop production, and on the need to improve the relative position of
beef cattle prices if beef production is to be encouraged. A strong case for
expanding a well trained extension service also emerges from the observation
of the flexibility available to farmers to maintain farm income given dif-
fering resource availabilities. Wise advice to farmers on optimal resource
use in a given situation is likely to be a highly profitable investment for
Government.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
BEEF EXPORTS AND THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET
1.        Beef production in the Punjab has traditionally been a by-product
of animal draft power and of milk production. Most slaughter animals are
old and unproductive with low body weight, and poor meat yield and quality.
Producer prices have been low, particularly in relation to beef prices in the
USA and Europe. Consequently, domestic price for beef has not been sufficient
to provide an incentive to Pakistan's farmers to invest in specialized or in-
tensive beef production; nor was such production essential, as traditional beef
supplies from aged draft cattle and milking cows have, until recently, been
sufficient to meet market demand, while local cooking habits do not place an
appreciable premium on beef quality.
2.        Under these marketing and economic conditions, large numbers of male
buffalo calves, unsuited for draft purposes and not required for the breeding
herd, have been wasted; either left to starve or slaughtered at a young age and
at immature body weights. Estimates of animals thus wasted are of the order
of two million per annum. Government has recognized the economic loss this
wastage represents and is interested in salvaging as many animals as possible.
However, under the anti-inflationary and consumer protection policy pursued
by Government, retail meat prices throughout the country are fixed; present
levels are:
Beef: Rs 5/seer           or           Rs  5.36/kg
Veal: Rs 6/seer           or           Rs  6.43/kg
Mutton: Rs 10/seer        or           Rs 10.71/kg
During the 2nd quarter 1975 the following international prices prevailed:
Pakistan average producer price                   US$0.35/kg liveweight
EEC reference price, steers                       US$1.05/kg liveweight
USA market price, Omaha steer                     US$1.09/kg liveweight
Australia average  producer price                 US$0.25/kg liveweight
Argentine average price, Liniers
Market                                          US$0.12/kg liveweight 1/
1/ 3rd quarter 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Because of the dispersed and small market outlets control of beef prices in
Pakistan is difficult and actual market prices are somewhat higher than those
prescribed (in Lahore during February 1976, market prices were around Rs 6/seer
for beef and Rs 7/seer for veal - Rs 6.43/kg and Rs 7.50/kg respectively).
Nevertheless, retail price control provides some constraint on present producer
prices of about Rs 2 to Rs 3.5/kg liveweight. With milk prices at the farm at
around Rs 1.2/kg and wheat at Rs 1.1/kg, farmers do not produce beef except in
areas or under conditions where no alternative land or labor use is possible,
or where a lack of capital and/or credit prevent them from starting dairy
production.
3.        In the original project proposal Government emphasis was placed on
fattening buffalo calves, coupled with the export of about 40% of the expected
incremental production of beef, in the form of choice cuts and pistola hinds,
to neighboring countries, i.e. Iran and the Arab Gulf States. the report pro-
posed that the expected higher returns form these exports be used to raise
producer prices to incentive levels, whole domestic market prices were to remain
constant.
4.        The proposed development of an export beef market from Pakistan must
however, be queried on three counts:
(a) the present prevalence of epizootics and the lack of
modern, sanitary slaughter facilities;
(b) current and likely future beef prices on the world
market and consequently in the Middle East;
(c) the limited resource base and unsatisfied domestic
demand for beef in Pakistan.
Epizootics
5.        The main contagious diseases prevalent in Pakistan include Haemor-
ragic Septicaemia, Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), Black Quarter and Anthrax.
The country is largely free of Rinderpest, except for recurrent outbreaks in
a dairy colony near Karachi. The fact that Rinderpest exists in Afghanistan,
India and Iran makes the risk of Rinderpest outbreaks ever present. Further-
more, repeated outbreaks of Mucosal Disease Complex (MDC) are reported and in
the absence of laboratory tests, the risk exists that these may hide mild
outbreaks of Rinderpest.
6.        Parasitic diseases are very widely spread and a survey of the Veter-
inary Research Institute in Lahore indicates that 52% of cattle and 85% of
buffaloes are infected with paramphistomiasis. Schistosomiasis is also very
common, particularly in the alluvial plains of the Punjab and Sind.
7.        Although veterinary and sanitary regulations governing the meat trade
in the Middle East are not as strict as those ruling in meat importing count-
ries with a more developed livestock industry, imports of beef from areas



ANNEX 3
Page 3
with widespread FMD and a suspicion of Rinderpest are not permitted. As a
consequence, sustained, official exports of beef or of live animals from
Pakistan are not possible, at least in the short run.
Slaughterhouse Facilities
8.        The only modern slaughterhouse in Pakistan is in Islamabad, but
this facility is in need of considerable improvement before it meets export
quality standards. All other slaughter facilities are old, poorly equipped
and constructed, and do not allow reasonable standards of slaughter hygiene;
they would not be acceptable sources of beef for importing countries. None
of these older abattoirs have facilities for by-product utilization. The
slaughterhouses in Lahore -one large and two small cattle and buffalo units-
are no exception. With present facilities in Lahore the processing of ani-
mals for export would not be possible.
World Market Prices
9.        It is notoriously difficult to refer to a "world market price for
beef" and with the closure of the London Smithfield market as an independent,
free importing market, -(it is now subject to EEC market regulations)- one of
the key indicators of world meat prices has disappeared, The most useful in-
dicative market prices now available are those for Australian and New Zealand
frozen, boneless manufacturing beef with 90% visible lean. This type of beef
resembles most closely in quality beef exported in the world and is the great-
est competitor for possible beef exports from Pakistan to the Middle East.
10.       Cattle prices in Australia, and in all other major exporting count-
ries, remained low through 1975. The average price of steers in Brisbane in
late 1975 was about one-third of the levels of the same period in 1973 and
1974. Average market prices in Australia for carcase beef were about US$0.45/kg,
and cif prices, USDA ports, for frozen boneless 90% visible lean beef about
US$1.25/kg; peak prices for this same producer in 1973-74 approximated
US$2.01/kg. 1/ Shipping costs Australia-US West Coast are only marginally
higher than those for Australia-Arab Gulf ports and cif prices for Australian
beef in Iran and the Gulf States are very similar to those prevailing in the
USA.
11.       Projections of "world meat market prices" are presently under review
in FAQ and in IBRD and a comprehensive world meat market survey has just been
completed. 2/ Previous beef price projections by IBRD 3/ indicated an increase
in 1973 constant dollar beef prices from US$2.49/kg in 1975 to US$3.72/kg in
1985. Actual 1975 prices have in fact been very much lower (Table 1) and new
1/   Annual Report Australian Meat Board - 1975.
2/   Gorden International Research Association, Genova, Switzerland:
World Meat Study.
3/   IBRD Commodity Forecasts:  November 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
projections now being prepared are expected to-show a much lower projected
rate of increase. The world market study projects an actual decline of 15%
in constant dollar beef prices between 1975 and 1985. Fluctuations in the
prices of internationally traded beef have been substantially less than do-
mestic price changes in cattle, a reflection of the large weighing that
transport and processing costs impose.
The Middle East Market 1/
12.       The natural market outlet for any surplus meat Pakistan might pro-
duce lies in the countries of the Middle East. Proximity to these markets
and growing eonomic, political and religious ties between Pakistan and these
countries are favorable for Pakistan's meat export potential, particularly
as demand for meat in the Middle East is expected to increase substantially,
largely as a result of growing incomes stimulated by petroleum exports.
13.       Projections indicate that until 1985, demand for all meats in the
Middle East is expected to grow at a rate of 6% p.a. while domestic supply
would grow by only around 3% p.a. Yet, even the sharp increase expected in
import requirements will leave the Middle East as a secondary market, not
large enough to influence world meat prices, and certainly not large enough
to influence world beef prices, as the bulk of present and future imports to
the mid-East will be lamb, mutton and goat meat. Table 2 indicates the pro-
jected trade of meat of Middle Eastern countries. It is noteworthy that
these productions indicate a decline in demand of beef exports from
Pakistan. 2/
14.       By far the most important market in the Middle East is Iran which
accounts for more than 50% of projected meat imports of the region. As in
most other Middle Eastern countries sheep and goat meat is preferred over
beef, and priority in production and marketing is given to mutton (sheep and
goat meat imports into Iran account for nearly 90% of total national meat
imports). Due to the likely undersupply of mutton on the world market,
prices for this commodity are expected to remain firmer than those for beef.
Australia and New Zealad produce over 90% of the internationally traded mut-
ton and lamb and their dominance in this regard will continue. Their im-
portance on the Iranian market as suppliers of the prefered mutton will also
affect their relative strength in the beef market.
1/   This section is based upon (a) Long term projections for Middle
Eastern and East African Consumption, Production and Trade in Meats.
W.G. Tyler Paper prepared for IBRD, September 1975. (b) Meat Supply
in Iran, IBRD, ARDAM Iran, September 1975.
2/   The import requirements as shown in Table 2 would place a very serious
burden on the importing countries foreign exchange reserves. It must
therefore be assumed that import restrictions will be imposed, reducing
actual imports.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       The retail price for meat in most towns of Iran is set by local
municipal committees. Mutton prices in Teheran and Esfahan are subsi-
dized by the Iran Meat Organization which operates a virtual monopoly on
mutton imports and marketing. Local beef is generally marketed through
beef syndicates and imported beef through private trading firms. There is
no duty on red meat imports except for "fancy meats" which carry a 5%
import levy. Importers are required to obtain import permits from the Min-
istry of Health and recommendation of the Meat Organization, Ministry of
Agriculture Production.
16.       In the last quarter of 1975 wholesale prices in Iran for imported
(Australian) mutton carcasses were around Rials 180/kg (US$2.60), and for im-
ported (US and France) frozen, boned-out beef carcasses Rials 110/kg (US$1.60).
Retail prices for imported choice beef cuts were as high as Rials 50/kg
(US$7.58) but the market for these cuts is very limited. A wholesale price
for boneless beef of US$1.60/kg would, with average local marketing charges
of around Rials 20/kg carcass, be equivalent to a cif price of around US$1300
/ton.
17.       Transport charges for beef to Teheran or the Gulf States from Paki-
stan could not be estimated with any precision as there is no previous local
experience with exporting refrigerated or frozen commodities from Pakistan 1/.
Exports to Teheran would have to be made by air, those to the Gulf States by
road or rail to Karachi, then by ship. In both cases it would be necessary to
have complete cold stores which presently do not exist. Excluding basic capi-
tal investment costs, it has to be assumed that actual transport rates, plus
handling costs would be at least US$400/t. (Present air cargo rates/are ap-
proximately US$1/per kg.) This would leave around $900/t. as the exslaughter-
house price for deboned meat and cuts. With a liveweight to deboned carcasse
ratio of 33%, liveweight prices would be equivalent to around $297/t or about
Rs 3.00/kg. Present liveweight prices for good quality animals, i.e. those
that could provide beef for export, are already close to Rs 3 per kg. Conse-
quently it would not be possible to use any'profits'from exports to subsi-
dize domestic beef market prices, and an economic basis for beef exports is
presently lacking. This situation does not in any way preclude the possibil-
ity of future exports if and when world market prices increase, but relying
upon exports in the near future as a basis for the livestock development pro-
ject would not be justified.
Beef Availability
18.       The total cattle and buffalo herd in Pakistan is around 22 M.  The
human population in mid 1975 was estimated at 72 M, giving a ratio of .3 ani-
mals per person. Although sheep and goats play a significant role in the meat
1/   Claims by some Pakistan authorities that freight charges for shipment
to the ARab Gulf would be around US$25/t must be discounted.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
supply of Pakistan, such a low ratio of bovines provides a narrow base for
sustained exports. This is all the more so as the increase in the human pop-
ulation is around 3.5% per annum, while the increse in cattle and buffalo is
around 1.8% p.a.
19.       The income elasticity for beef, includng cross elasticities for
other meat, in Pakistan is estimated at .7. IBRD projections for per capita
income in Pakistan indicate an annual growth rate of around 3.3%. These two
estimates imply a demand increase per caput for beef of 2.3% per annum. Price
increases, estimated at around 5% annum for all meats would reduce this demand
expansion, nevertheless it is likley that per caput comsumption will continue
to increase by around 2.0% p.a. Projected increases in consumption also need
to be related to current consumption levels estimated at 4.9 kg/annum of which
3.7 kg are beef and veal. These are the lowest consumption levels for count-
ries in the Middle East (see Table 3). It seems unlikely therefore that Pak-
istan will be able to generate a sufficiently large and sustained surplus
of meat to provide a substantial export surplus.



PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Average Import prices for meat, USA (c.i.f. prices) 1967-1975 in US$/kg
1967-71   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
average
Beef and veal: Fresh, chilled or frozen
Beef, boned in              0.96       1.oo   1.06   1.31   1.88   1.50   1.27
Veal, boned in              1.26       1.33   1.40   1.53   1.91   1.70   1.18
Beef, boned out "           1.04       1.10   1.17   1.25   1.70   1.51   1.05
Lamb, mutton
and goat:     Fresh or frozen
Lamb                        0.78       0.82   0.78   0.79   1.22   1.53   1.31
Mutton and goat              0.62      0.76   0.73   0.70   1.17   1.52   l.4O
Source: Based on Foreign Agriculture Circular, USDA,March 1976
C.D
F'X
C-i;
o  '                    0                                                   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK  PROJECT
PROJECTED Ngr TRADE L/ IN HEATS
('000 metric tons)
Beef and Veal           Mutton, Lamb               Pork              Other Red               Poultry          Total Heats
and Goat                                      Meats
1980     1985           5sB-0  19o5 1-9-80               1985          9 iBo                      1W          1980    19E
-  3      -  7          - 46    - 78           -         -              8   -14            -  3   -  5        - 60    -104
+  1     +  1           + 7      +8                      -           -       -            +  3   +  2         + 11    + 11
- 51      - 46          - 11    - 12           -1        -           +  2   +  4           - 29   - 26        - 90    - 80
+116      +299          +201    +616           +  3      +  4        + 15   + 43           + 94   +265        +429  +1,227
+ 46     +143           + 94    +261           -         -           +  8   + 17          + 31   + 82         +179    +503
+  4      +.6           +  5    + 10           -         -           +1+1                                     + 9      + 17
*  3      + 4           + 13    +20            -         - _            1   +  1          + 10   + 19         + 27    + 44
+ 25      + 32          + 19    + 25           -  1      -  2        -                       55               + 38    + 50
-         -             +  2    +  2           -         -           -       -            -       -1          +  2    +  1
-33       -26           - 16    - 23           -4        -6          -35   -41                9 -15           - 97    -11
+  2      +  3          +  5    +7             -         -           +        1            -      _           +  8    + 1
+  7      +  9          + 69    +132           -         -           +  7   + 18          + 24   + 47         +107    +206
+  5      + 10          +  5    + 10                                 +  1   +  1          +  2   +  3         + 13    + 24
+ 41      +120          +109    +224           -  1      -  1        + 41   + 56          + 18   + 41         +208    +440
+  3     +  6           + 13    + 20          _          _           _                    + 16   + 26         + 32    + 52
-         -  1          + 12    +             -          -           -       -            -  1  - 1           + I1    +  2
+ 1  + 1                + 2                                                               -2 -2   + 1  -1
16   54-  -                                                                                                    -3  -
+167      +554          +483  +1,226           -  4      -  5        + 34   + 87          +148   +430         +828  +2,292           & g
ro jections for Middle Eastern ani East African Consumption, Production ani Trade in Meats
mtember 1975



Annex 3
Table .3
PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PER CAPITA COISUMPTION OF MEATS
(Kg. per head per year)
Beef and    Mutton        Pig Meat     Other    Poultry     Total
Veal         Lamb and                  Meat
Goat Meat
'ghanistan              2.7          7.1          --          0.8        0.5        11.1
thrain                  2.3         20.3          --          0.1       8.2         30.9
:ypt                   6.7           1.14         --          0.7       2.3        11.1
an                      2.9          7.8          0.1         0.5       1.0        12.3
aq                      5.3          8.2          --          0.7       0.8        15.0
rdan                    1.7          5.2          --          0.4       1.7         9.0
wait                    2.4         13.5          --          1.9      13.2         40.0
banon                   7.3          7.0          0.7         --        7.3        22.3
an                     2.2           3.5          --          0.4       1.6         7.7
cistan                 2.7           1.2          0.1         0.2       0.3         14.5
;ar                    8.5         29.1           --          6.5       1.3        45.4
idi Arabia             1.3          5.3          --           2.6       1.5        10.7
,ia                    1.9          7.3          --           0.1       1.4        10.7
L.t.                   6.5         23.8          0.2          0.4      21.9        52.8
ten A.R.               2.4         12.2          --          0.2        0.2        15.0
.en P.D.R.             1.4          7.7          --          0.7        0.1         9.9
rce:     Long Term Projections for Middle Eastern and East African Consumption,
Production and Trade in Meats. W.G. Tyler, IERD, September 1975.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
BEEF PRODUCTION AND FATTENING
1.        Some two million potential beef producing animals are lost to the
economy of Pakistan each year because farmers consider the market price that
beef animals receive inadequate to pay for fee costs. Priority in the use
of feed is given to draft animals, and then to milking stock, in the well
founded belief that these activities utilize crop products and fodder more
profitably than rearing potential beef animals. The only situation in
which, at present price ratios, the feeding of young stock for beef pro-
duction is financially attractive, is where capital availability greatly
constrains a farmer's access to draft and milk animals (Annex 2).
2.        Apart from rearing surplus calves another potential source of
incremental beef production in Pakistan lies in the addition of weight to
the aged and usually very thin mature cattle which are sent for slaughter
following completion of their working life as draft animals. The market
price for such stock in the Punjab (March 1976) approximates Rs 2/kg (the
range is Rs 1.6 to Rs 2.9). The quality of feed required to produce an in-
cremental kg of liveweight gain approximates 4 kg of TDN when using high
quality feed (crushed grain, cotton seed cake and wheat bran) and 6-8 kg
of TDN for a ration based on roughage, molasses and urea. Purchased feed
of good quality costs about Rs 2.0 per kg of TDN while the molasses-urea-
roughage mix can be fed at a cost near to 0.4/kg TDN. The question arises as
to whether a fattening operation feeding a roughage based ration to thin mature
stock might not be a feasible method of increasing national beef production.
Experimental evidence of cattle fattening in Pakistan, using roughage based
rations, is limited and confined to small, non-commercial trials. Results
of these trials indicate that older mature stock respond well to feeding
but critical economic data on the use of minimal cost rations, actual feed lot
performance and the resulting changes in carcass composition are lacking. Using
the data available from Pakistan, coupled with information obtained from live-
stock fattening operations elsewhere, the following indicative situation
emerges:
3.        In mature thin zebu type cattle, each incremental 20 kg of liveweight
gain provides a carcase gain of about 16 kg and an increase of 1% in the car-
case dressing percentage, and each kg of liveweight gain is made up by an
increment of about 40% in red meat, 25% in fat, 10% in bone and 15% in gut-
fill and offals.
4.        To achieve liveweight gains of 0.5 to 0.7 kg per day, at a conver-
sion ratio in the range of 12 to 1, approximately 8 kg of DM per day per head
must be consumed, considering a minimal cost feed under Pakistan conditions
a suitable ration would be roughly as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
% of Ration    Quantity    Price/Kg    Cost/head/day
per day
(kg)
Wheat or rice straw
and/or ground corn
cobs                        65             5.0         0.15           0.75
Rice or Wheat Bran             10            0.8          0.35           0.26
Cotton Seed Cake
(undecorticated)             9            0.7          1.1            0.77
Molasses                       14            1.2          0.35           0.42
Urea                            1            0.1          0.45           0.04
Vitamin and Medical
Supplement                                                            0.1
2.34
5.        Expected daily feed costs are about Rs 2.34, and the expected daily
liveweight gain is about 0.6 kg (TDN fed would be about 4 kg/day with 480 gm
of digestible protein). The overall feed cost and return for a fattening per-
iod of 130 days would be:
(i) Buy cattle at 330 kg @ Rs 2/kg @ 47% dressing percentage. The ex-
pected compostiion of these animals would be:
Bone          26 kg
Red Meat    105 kg
Fat          24 kg
(Ui)  Sell cattle at 410 kg @ Rs 2.5/kg @ 51% dressing %.  The expected
composition of these animals is then:
Bone          30 kg
Red Meat    140 kg
Fat          39 kg
6.        Feed costs averaged over 130 days amount to Rs 304, only Rs 60 less
than expected gross returns on the fattening process.  To be profitable it
appears probable the differential price paid for the higher quality, fattened
carcases would need to exceed the 25% differential presently anticipated.
Alternatively, conversion rates and daily gain must exceed 12:1 and 0.6 kg
respectively, an unlikely event with the ration proposed. In short, the



ANNEX 4
Page 3
intensive fattening of thin mature stock under the present price structure
prevailing in Pakistan appears marginal but worth exploring further, par-
ticularly as the price differential for quality beef appears likely to in-
crease.
7.        To this end the Punjab Livestock Board propose to establish, inde-
pendently of the Project, three small scale, experimental fattening operations
at three of their farms in the hope that fattening techniques can be developed
on a commercial basis and extended to a series of village based fattening units
to be operated by landless and/or small farmers. Each PLB fattening facility
would provide feeding space for 50 head of cattle and require a small feeding
yard and shelter, water point connections, and investment funds for cattle pur-
chase, feed storage and milking facilities and a weighing scale.
8.        Investment costs for each unit would be as follows:
Rs
Constrtuction of Yard, Shelter and Feeding Troughs              5000
Water Point Facility                                            3000
Feed storage, hammer mill and mixing unit                      5000
Weighing scale                                                 5000
Working capital for stock and feed                            20000
Rs 38000



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN      -
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
MEAT PROCESSING AND MARKETING
Livestock
1.        Present sales of buffaloes and cattle from the Shekhupura district
are estimated at around 110,000 animals per year. About half of these are
aged, unproductive milk buffaloes and draft animals, the other half young,
generally unfinished bull and heifer calves. Animals are largely sold ex-
farm to butchers or buyers' agents; about 30% of these purchases are deliv-
ered to the fifteen monthly, and one weekly, primary livestock markets in
the District. At the primary markets animals are bought by a second group of
traders who take them to the main city markets where they are sold to butchers
and traders of the city. Trading is private, there is no form of public auc-
tion and animals are not weighed. Most transactions are in cash, though cre-
dit is sometimes provided by traders and money lenders at the markets; in
many cases a middleman serves as guarantor charging a 3% commission. Veter-
inary inspectors are not present at markets, sales are not recorded and no tax
is levied on the transactions at the market. Sales through the organized mar-
kets are, however, subject to a market fee of 2 to 5% of the sales prices.
2.        Most of the animals from Shekhupra District are supplied to Lahore,
smaller number go to Lyallapur and about 10% of offtake is slaughtered in the
project area.
3.        The overall marketing channel for livestock (Chart 1) is simple and
appears to operate efficiently. Government interference is minimal and there
is no price control on live animals . Slaughter of productive female cattle
and buffaloes is officially prohibited, but this regulation cannot be enforced.
Livestock and meat traders are supposed to be licenced by the District Admini-
stration but this is not enforced.
4.        Transport of cattle and buffaloes is generally on the hoof if dis-
tances are less than 30 miles, otherwise road transport is used. The road
network is adequate, although many roads are not paved, making transport dur-
ing the monsoon hazardous. Traffic on the main artery to Lahore is around
2 hours. Transport rates are about Rs 5/head for trecking while truckers
charge Rs 500 for a 200 mile haul of a load of about 8-10 cattle. The Lahore
municipality charges an entrance tax of Rs 2.20/head for animals coming into
the city.
5.        Although livestock are sold on a liveweight basis, there are no weigh-
ing facilities throughout the marketing chain, and as no sales records are
kept, price information is somewhat vague. Information collected by the mis-
sion indicates that cattle and buffaloes under 3 1/2 years of age and of fair



ANNEX 5
Page 2
quality sell at around Rs 3.10/kg, poor animals at the end of their produc-
tive life fetch between Rs 1.60/kg and Rs 2.90/kg depending upon their con-
dition. Prices for sheep and goats range from Rs 4.00/kg to Rs 4.40/kg. A
survey undertaken by the University of Lyallpur, showed that the average
liveweight of cattle and buffaloes is 244 kg, that of sheep and goats 26 kg;
dressing out percentages for these animals are around 46% far cattle and buf-
faloe and 51% for smallstock.
Slaughtering and Meat Marketing in Lahore City
6.        According to the population census of 1972 the population of Lahore
was then 2.16 M some 67% over that of 1961 and indicating an annual growth
rate of around 4.8%. There are no household consumption surveys available
for Lahore, but from slaughter records 1/ it can be estimated that per caput
consumption of beef and mutton is 3.1 kg and 2.6 kg respectively, this would
differ somewhat from the all Pakistan comsumption data which indicate 4.9 kg
total meat consumption per caput of which 3.7 kg is beef and veal.
7.        Buffalo and cattle for consumption in Lahore are slaughtered in one
large and two small abattoirs, owned and operated by the municipality. Small
stock is slaughtered in an abattoir. Both the main large animal and the small
animal abattoir are located near the livestock market which is common for both
types of livestock. Butchers, mainly wholesalers, bring their stock to the
abattoir for killing, skinning and dressing by their own hired labor. The
municipality performs a perfunctory inspection service Butcher's costs are
approximately:
Buffalo      Cattle      Smallstock
Municipal fee (including
veterninary services)              Rs  0.75      Rs  0.50   Rs  0.40
Hired Labor (Average cost)         Rs 10.00     Rs 10.00   Rs  4.00
Rs 10.75     Rs.10.50   Rs   4.40
Estimated marketing costs are detailed in Table 1, butchers margins for beef
appear low and mutton high.
8.        The existing abattoirs at Lahore are unhygienic.  There is no hot
water for cleaning or sterilizing; most slaughter operations are performed
on the floor allowing carcasse meat to contact contaminants from the hide
and intestinal content, and labor is not submitted to any form of hy-
gienic routine.
1/   Slaughter Statistics:           Cattle       Buffalo       Sheep ad Goats
1974                      32,534        26,774          419,000
1975                      32,542        29,453          425,000



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        The present slaughter plant buildings offer no reasonable possi-
bilities for improvement. The plants are essentially large sheds in which
butchers have their animals slaughtered and dressed. The operation does not
meet modern sanitary requirements of on-the-rail dressing, where the slaught-
ering and dressing operations are carried out in sequence with the carcass
moving progressively more hygienic and better protected work areas, allowing
no backtracking of product and personnel. The existing abattoirs in Lahore
cannot be converted to an on-the-rail dressing method. Also, due to inade-
quate design, no effective veterinary inspection can be introduced; by the time
a diseased carcass has been identified, its contaminated fluids have spread onto
other carcasses and its head and viscera are lost before they can be identified
and destroyed.
10.       The present slaughterhouses are not equipped for byproduct utiliza-
tion except for blood, of which about two thirds is scooped from the floor and
dried to make blood meal. The returns for this blood, about Rs 4 per large
animals, goes to the slaughter team.
11.       Hides and skins are sold by the butcher-retailer ex-slaughterhouse.
Raw hides fetch around Rs 100, skins around Rs 25. Heart, liver, head and
trotters are also sold by the butcher-retailer ex-slaughterhouse to special-
ized retailers as are the guts. Prices received for these items are around
Rs 35-40 per large animal and Rs 15 per small animals. The carcass meat it-
self is transported from the slaughterhouse by bicycle or open vans to simple
non hygienic, retail outlets throughout the city; of these there are 556
registered and around 2,000 unregistered, selling either mutton and goat meat
or beef. Daily throughput per retail outlet is very small, and there is no re-
tail butchering service except for mincing of meat.
Retail meat prices are officially fixed at:
Beef        Rs  5/seer                      Rs  5.36/kg
Veal        Rs  5/seer                      Rs  6.43/kg
Mutton      Rs 10/seer                      Rs 10.71/kg
Strict enforcement of this legislation is not possible and prices are generally
20% above the prescribed levels.
PLB's Current Meat Operation
12.       To set a pattern for better hygiene and meat quality at the retail
level, the Punjab Livestock Board (PLB) initiated early in 1975 a meat
slaughtering and meat retailing operation in the cities of Rawalpindi and
Islamabad.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
13.       To this effect PLB leased in April 1975, an existing municipal
plant in Sihala, in the outskirts of Rawalpindi, for Rs 400,000/year for a
period of 12 years. Presently PLB slaughters about 30 head of cattle and
buffalo daily (5 days a week). In addition PLB leases the plant to private
butchers of Rawalpindi; 30 butchers slaughter about 90 head of cattle and
buffalo daily using their own hired labor.
14.       The meat marketed by PLB, is boned out and sold as frozen cuts and
mince meat in 1/4 kg packs, wrapped in plastic bags. About 10% of the through-
put is sold as special cuts at Rs 11.60/kg, considerably above the control
price, to the small high income segment of the consumer population. Govern-
ment allows this higher price on the basis that the meat has undergone addi-
tional processing through freezing and wrapping.
15.       PLB purchases livestock on contract from two suppliers.  Costs of
the operation are well above market prices and PLB suffers heavy losses, par-
ticularly as the bulk of the meat is sold boneless at the offical price of
Rs 6/seer (Rs 6.43/kg). PLB's present marketing policy is a cause for con-
cern; the Board has advanced credit to many of their commissioned agents (40
in Rawalpindi and Islamabad and 65 Lahore) and supplied them with refriger-
ator cabinets. Currently PLB is losing about Rs 2 for each kg of liveweight
processed. Drastic changes are required in the procurement of cattle and in
the slaughtering process if the operation is to become profitable. It would
be a condition of Board Presentation that PLB had demonstrated its ability to
operate the Sihala meat business on a profitable basis or else have it closed
down. If PLB can operate the Sihala plant profitably, this venture could con-
tinue independently of the proposed project in Lahore. The Sihala scheme
would benefit, however, from the technical assistance in plant operation, meat
processing and meat marketing which would be provided under the project for
the PLB plant in Lahore.
The Proiect: New Processing Facility at Lahore
16.       Slaughter facilities in Lahore, must be improved, and include ade-
quate processing of slaughter byproducts. Retail services also need to be im-
proved to allow hygienic meat handling of chilled or frozen, individually wrap-
ped portions, thereby assuring adequate freshness during the long hot summers.
Under the project a new abattoir would be constructed at Lahore with a capacity
to process up to 350 head daily for the butchery trade, and 50 head daily for
PLB distribution and direct sales.
Location and Site
17.       The new slaughterhouse would be located near the present main abat-
toir, which is close to the city's main cattle and small stock market. Al-
though the project would not include new facilities for slaughtering small
stock, the new plant would be designed to accommodate such facilities at a
future date.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
18.       The site proposed satisfies the basic requirements for modern
slaughter plants. These include proximity to sources of labor, availability
of water (water table at 10-50 ft), electric power, and good market communi-
cations. Moreover, its location in the consumption center, rather than in
the production area, minimizes the need to chill or freeze the bulk of the
fresh meat destined for the urban market.
Capacity and throughput
19.       Based on present slaughter figures in Lahore (para 6), and on the
assumption that the plant would operate 250 days and require a 30 percent
spare capacity for peak demand periods, the plant would require a capacity
to process 400 head in one 8 hour shift. To meet increased slaughter re-
quirements, the duration of the shift could be extended.
Buildings
20.       The plant would be designed, built and equipped following interna-
tional sanitary standards. This applies particularly to the layout and product
flow. Inedible products (hides, meat meal, dry blood, hoof and horn meal,
etc.) would be processed in a building completely separate from the main
slaughtering block. The loading dock for carcasses and other edible products
would be diametrically opposite and upwind of the cattle pens and the loading
area for the inedible byproducts.
21.       All slaughtering and edible product handling would be carried out in
a single storey structure having a flat concrete ceiling and brick walls, fin-
ished on the inside with an impervious washable surface. Floors would be
concrete, pitched with standard drains and with an abrasion and impact-resis-
tant surface. All openings would be screened and ventilation would be mech-
anical. Inspection and work areas would be well lit.
22.       There would be two chill-rooms, preferably within the same building
as the carcass loading dock. They would be designed to hold half a day's kill
(200 head). Cooler rails would be placed 11 feet above the floor. The rails
on the loading dock would be at a height 7' 6" to allow handling beef carcas-
ses in quarters. The refrigerating equipment would be of the forced draft
type, floor mounted with ready access for service and maintenance. There
would be a small meat cutting and packaging room for up to 50 head/day (one
shift) and a blast freezer for freezing the wrapped meat portions of cor-
responding capacity.
23.       Inedible by-products would be processed in a simple, naturally ven-
tilated building with a concrete floor, drains, and brick walls, The roof
would be corrugated transit with a supporting steel structure. The building
for utilities (laundry, boiler, engine-room, store, workshop and garage), and
hides and skins would be of similar construction. The office, laboratory and
first-aid room would be similar, but with flat concrete ceiling slabs and
superior inside finish.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
24.       Livestock pens would not be shaded and would hold sufficient stock
for one day's kill. The pens would have pitched concrete floors, individual
drains, sanitary curbs and water troughs, and one race to the killing floor.
A separate pen would be provided for holding diseased aiimals. The entire
plant premises would be fenced and would have a 3,000 m   illuminated, paved
yard. Approximate areas of the proposed buildings are in Table 2 .
25.       The buildings and equipment would be designed for a maximum slaught-
ering rate of 60 head of cattle per hour. All equipment that would come in
contact with edible products would be of stainless steel. Slaughtering would
be according to Moslem rites with carcass dressing on-the-rail. Rails would
be conveyorized. Provision would be made for identification of viscera, head
and carcass until final inspection. No wood would be used within edible or
inedible product areas. Washbasins and sterilizers would be strategically
located and access to the processing rooms would be confined to controlled
points, using a strict hygienic routine. Condemned or dead beasts would be
provided for saving variety meats such as kidneys, livers, tongues, hearts
tripe and edible fat. Machines would be included for de-fatting and de-
sliming casings for export.
26.       Throughout the process a control would be kept on the identity of
each carcass with its corresponding edible and inedible by-products for de-
livery (the latter in polythene bags) at the loading dock to their owner/
butcher. The plant would keep the hide, head, legs, hooves and horns and
abdominal viscera, reimbursing the butcher's accordingly. (See Table 3).
27.       The processing of inedible by-products would yield meat and bone
meal, dry blood, hoof and horn meal, and tallow. The equipment would in-
clude a disintegrator, melter, blood drier, mill and bagging hopper. Hides
would be fleshed and salt cured.
Utilities
28.       Steam at low pressure (50 kg/cm ) would be required for heating wa-
ter for sterilizing and clean-up, and also for by-product processing. Two
package type steam generators are proposed, each with sufficient capacity to
meet the total demand and suitable for burning light fuel oil. All auxi-
liaries including fuel storage tank and feedwater treatment would be part of
the package.
29.       Power would be avilable on high tension from the city; provision has
been made for the installation of a transformer substation at the plant. Water
would be supplied from two wells to be drilled at the site, including storage
tank and chlorinating equipment. The refrigerating plant would include three
units. It would involve recriprocating compressors operating with ammonia for
easy detection of leaks. Two units would have sufficient capacity to carry
the entire load including the freezer. Effluent treatment would involve pri-
mary separation of solids and fat with a combination of rotary screen and



ANNEX 5
Page 7
catch basin. Land would not be available for anaerobic lagoons for secondary
treatment; a system of activated sludge would be the most appropriate as a
trickling filter system would create a fly nuisance in the local climate.
Construction and Management
30.       PLB would employ international consultants, experienced in meat
processing plant design, to draw up broad specifications of equipment and
layouts for the plant. These plans and specifications would be used to issue
invitations for international tenders for the construction of the plant on a
two contract basis; one for the civil works and the other, a turn-key, for
the equipment. The engineering consultants would assist PLB in the evalu-
ation of the tenders and also supervise, on PLB's behalf, the entire construc-
tion phase and start-up. The consulting firm would not be able to bid for
the construction of the plants.
31.       The plant would be managed by an expatriate plant manager, assisted
by an expatriate operations manager. The expatriates would be recruited ei-
ther on an individual basis or be supplied by management company, together
with other staff required for project implementation. The plant managers
would be required in year 2 to acquaint themselves with the plants during the
final stage of construction and to organize start-up operations, including
personnel training and the shutting down the old municipal abattoirs. The
expatriates would be required to train Pakistani counterparts to take over
plant management after about 3 years. All other staff including the account-
ants, the slaughtering supervisors, the engineers, and the by-products and
yard supervisors, would be employed locally.
Costs
32.       Total costs for the slaughterbouse, including technical and manage-
ment services as well as physical contingencies would amount to US$5.4M, the
foreign exchange component would be about 50%. Details of costs are given in
Table 2, while Tables 3 and 4 summarize sales revenue and cost projections and
Table 5 depicts the expected cash flow.
Benefits and Justification
33.       The new plant would produce good quality meat for Pakistan's second
largest city, eliminating the present health hazards from infested meat and
diseased animals, and reducing the fly and rat infestation associated with
the existing abattoirs. The modern plant would start a sanitary marketing
chain at least for the meat sold prepacked by PLB. In addition, identifica-
tion of diseased animals, with resulting price reductions, would improve
animal husbandry and working practices. With the opening of the new abattoir
exisiting facilities will be closed down.
34.       In combination with the Foot and Mouth control component included
in the project (Annex 6), the provision of a modern, sanitary, abattoir in



ANNEX 5
Page 8
the Punjab, where about 70% of the cattle and buffalo population of Pakistan
are placed, would enable the country to enter the export trade as and when
prices on foreign markets prove attractive.
35.       The principal economic benefits from investments in the new slaughter
plant would be the incremental meat sales by PLB and the better utilization
of by-products. Market prices of 1975 have been used to estimate the value
of incremental sales by PLB. The value of by-products is also calculated at
1975 market prices. Incremental costs include capital investments in the new
slaughter plant, as well as the incremental operating costs of the plant. On
the basis of these assumptions the financial rate of return on the slaughter
plants is estimated at 13 percent. A 10 percent increase in project costs
would reduce the rate of return to 6 percent, a five percent reduction in
sales would reduce the rate of return to 9 percent, and a 10 percent reduc-
tion to 5 percent. Details of the financial rate of return calculations
are in Table 6.



Annex 5
Chart 1
PA K I S'K" .
I   Ti.  TY t .,~'   7t,  >  .  TI >.
tirkar C,in,~ Ctl r~n.' Tfr          -   Shekhupura District
.. r:  _                                   4  ;--    5    .  <,,-
77-~~~~~~~~~~~r~~7
4..  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:- "



Annex 5
Tab re i
P KTA -,,
Tr a'.e :] ...  I.rk; ;.tr~r Co,ss  fr  L+e-f an.l ICU' YL..............,or. - Ldi..lre   ar!i ''?w
b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t',-- I  t  ti _Le t,t  e  a  On      -.-C   
(kg)                    2,                                      2
.~~~ ~~~ .
C F, ~  ~     )Ci
b11
2D, 
1.-   ;-. ti- .. /.i .;n:.>D C                                               3-   J
~~~27~ ~
g *oj _  J,,)j  _, ,?c  .>;7slj. .75                                                      ,



PAKISTA                                                                   AN
PUNJAB LIVE!SOC  3EVYEL0IIT PRO=JCT
Model: Slaushtering Plant
Investment Proiections
Capacity             Cost per Unit       ----Years----              Foreign Exchange
or Total Units            us S 9000           1      2       Total      %        US$SOOO
1/
ToLal Plan Capacity                                          400 heed cattle/l shift
Investment Items                                                                                                          Thousands -----
2
1.  Land and Site Preparation                                             I ha                       3/Jn         300      --       300      --
2.  CxviL Works                                                                2                        2
Plant yards                                                        3,000 ia                    15/x           310    140       450       --
Fencing, infrastructure                                              400 ,                     45/m           180      __      180       10
Cattle pens                                                        1,200 u2                    60/32          500    220        720      20
Main slaughtering & processing bldg., loading dock                 1,000 :2                   250/32        1,750    750    2,500        30 (207)
Chill-rooms, freezer, incld. railage                                 300  72                  300/m           630    270        900      30 (207)
By products processing bldg.                                         400  2                   130/2           370    150       520       20
office, lab., menities, housing                                      400 *2                   150/m           420    180       600       30 (20%)
Hide shed, garage, store, aux. bldgs.                               1,000 a2                  11O/32          850    250    1,100        20
Effluent treatment (screen, trickling filter, sedimentation) 2/m3/day/head                    500/.3/dsy   2.000  2,000    4 000         20
Sub-total                                                                                                   7,010  3,960   10,970        23         252
3. Urilities
Water wells, pumps, piping, storage tank, chlorinator           2 x  50 m3/hr               1,400/m3/hr       570    830    1,400        50 (207)
Power sub-station, transformer, switchgear, controls            2 x 400 KVA                   130/KVA         420    620    1,040        60 (207)
Package steam generators, fuel tank, water trearent           2 x 3,000 kg/hr              20,000/ton/hr      490    710    1,200        80 (207)
Refrigerating Equipment and aux.                                3 x  50 tons                1,300/ton         780  1,170    1.950        80 (20%)
Service lines                                                        10%                       --             230    330       560       40
Crating, freight, insurance                                           15%                      --              --    920       920       40 (20%)
Installation                                                          15%                      --              --  1.060    1.060        20
Sub-total                                                                                                   2,490  5,640    8,130        57         455
4. Machinerv and Equipment
Cattle slaughtering and on-the-rail-dressing                          50 head/hr           10,000/head/hr  2,000  3,000    5,000         80 (207)
complete incl viscera conveyor & trolleys
Edible product handling eqpt.(tables, trays, trukts)                  50 head/hr            2,000/head/hr    400    600    1,000         70 (20%)
Boning and neat packaging equipment                                  10 head/hr             3,000/head/hr    120    180        300       70 (20%)
Edible by-product processing equipment                               50 head/hr             2,000/heoad/hr    400    600    1,000        80 (20%)
Inedible by-product rendering equipment                              50 head/hr             6,000/bead/hr  1,200  1,800    3,000         90 (20%)
Office, lab., workshop, laundry equipment, spares, tools, misc.  --                       100,000             400    600    1,000        80 (207)
Crating, freight, insurance                                          15%                       __              --  1,700    1,700        70 (20%)
Installation                                                          20%                      --              --  2.600    2.600        40
Sub-total                  2                                                                                4,520 11,080   15,600        74        1,139
5.  Transportation Ecuipment -
Cattle trucks                                                   2 x 12 head/es             20,000/a.           -      400      400(20%) 90 (50%)
Meat delivery vans                                              4 x  2 tons/ea.            20,000/es.          --    800       800(20%) 90 (50%)
Pick up trucks                                                       2                      7,000/es.         140    _         140(20%) 90 (50%)
Sub-total                                                                                                     140  1,200    1,340        90         121
6. Ensineering and Overhead 3
Organizational expenses                                              2%                        --             700      --      700       --
Consultant (specs, bids, supervision)                                5%                        --             870    880    1,750        80
Contractors (design, implementation)                                 8%                         _           1.400  1.400    2.800        80
Sub-total                                                                                                   2,970  2,280    5,250        69         36
7. Technical ad _____e__t Service                                 ( Inseet plant mgr.          60,000/yr x 3 yrs 590  1,190)   3.270          so        262
7   lechnffical and naement Services                          ( I operation  mgr.          50,000/yr x 3 yrs  --  1,490)
Total Investmnt w/o Continaencies                                                                        18,020 26,840   44,840        56       2,591
8.  Working Capital                                                  2 weeks turnover                             --      510        510     --          --
9.  Physical Continaencies                                                                                        710  1,095      1,805      55          99
Sub total                                                                                               18,730 28,445    41,175       57       2,690
10.  Us.ces and Imoort Duties                                                                                    2,889  3,731       6,620     -           -
Total Costs                                                                                             21,619 32,176    53,795       50       2,690
1/ One plant would be financed, it would slaughter,, for a fee, also the butcher volume for th  city of Lahore, where it would be located.
2/ Butchers would bring their cattle and withdrw the carcass meat in tbeir own vans.
31 Excluding item 5.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Asswmptions for Computing Sales Revenues
Slauthering in Existing Abbattoirs                   ------ Slaughtering in Nev       t -----------------------
-------- Butcher Volume -----         ------ Butcher Volume ------------LB Is Volume -
Wholesale    Total-                 Wholesale       Total                   Wholesale      Total
I  t  e m  6                Yield/Head  Price/Unit  Revenue   Yield/Head  Price/Unit Revenue/Head  Yield/Head Price/Unit Revenue/Head
Average live weight 31                 270 kg         --          --       270   kg                                 270   kg
Dressed weight yield'4/                 48 %                                49   %                                   49   %
_   S        Rs         Rs          k            Rs            RL            kg           K 
Filet                                5(  2.0         6.30/kg    12.6         2.0        6.30/kg        12.6           2.0        6.30/kg      12.6
Special cuts (round, steaks)(w/boie)1                                                                                30.0       10.- /kg    300.0
Curry beef (w/bone)                    126.8         5.40/kg, 689.0        129.5        5.40/kg       703.61         99.5        5.40/kg    537.3
Minced meat                           I
Kidneys                                  0.8                                 0.8                                      0.8        5.40/kg       4.3
Total Dressed Weight                 129.6                               132.3                                    132.3
Tripe                                   unit         2/unit       2.0         5.5       3.- /kg        16.5            5.5       3.- /kg      16.5
Liver                                                                        3.3        5.40/kg        17.8           3.3        5.40/kg      17.8
8eart                                                                         0.7       3.- /kg         2.1            0.7       3.- /kg       2.1
Tongue                                                                        1.8       5.40/kg         9.7           1.8        5.40/kg       9.7
Cheek and head meat                     unit        40/unit      40.0         2.0       5.40/kg        10.8            2.0       5.40/kg      10.8
Brains                                                                       0.5        5.- /kg         2.5           0.5        5.- /kg       2.5
Skulls and jaws                                                              5.0          --            --            5.0          --          --
Legs                                                                         5.0          __            __            5.0          --          --
Hooves and horns                                                              3.0         __            __            3.0          -           --
Gut (casings)                          unit       Given as part payment   1 set        20.0/set        40.0/set    I set        40.0/set      40.0
Lungs, trimmings, etc.                            to slaughterer             2.5          --            --            2.5          __          --
Edible fat                              --            --           --       10.0        5.40/kg        54.0          10.0       54.0/kg       54.0
Inedible tallow                         --            __           __        8.0        4.50/kg        36.0           8.0       36.0/kg       36.0
Blood                                    5           5.0/head    5.0         13.0                       --           13.0          --          --
Blood meal                              --            --           --         2.5       3.50/kg         8.8           2.5        8.8/kg        8.8
Bone and meat meal                      --            --           --        8.0        0.90/kg         7.2           8.0        7.2/kg        7.2
Hoof and horn meal                      --            --           --         2.0       3.- /kg         6.0           2.0        6.0/kg        6.0
Hide                                    16          90/unit      90.0        15.0     140/unit        140.0          15.0      140/unit      140.0
Total Revenue per Head                --            --       838.6        --            --        1,067.6          --         --         l,205.6
838.6                                 838.6
Incremental Revenue/Head                                                                            229.0                                  367.0
Meat and Variety Meats:                                                                                           146.1
1/  One largeabattoir slaughtering about 250-300 head/day and two small killing 20-30 head/day each.
2/  The new plant would have a nominal capacity of 400 head/day: 350 head/day for the butcher volume and 50 head/day for the LDDB volume.
3/  Corresponds to a composite slaughter of culled bullocks, cows, female buffalos and male buffalo calves.                                                   FJ X
4/ Yields would increase at least 1Z. by elimination of present air drying of carcasses.
5/  PLB's volume would include sale of wrapped frozen special cuts that could be sold at higher prices through grocery stores.                                La u



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Yield or Number of                                            - Years ------------
Volume 1/                                     Units at Full Development  Cost or Price per Unit   1-2           3        4      5-20
Volumne-
Total slaughtering butcher's account  )                                                                      -.  50,000  47,500   47,500
Total slaughtering LDDB's account        )           250 days/year                         --                --  10,000  12,500   12,500
------ R   Millions ---------
Income
Butchers fees 2/                                          --                      Pp       5/head            --        0.3      0.2       0.2
Sale of byproducts from butcher's volume -                --                       Rp   229/head             --       11.3    10.8       10.8
Sale of meat and byproducts from LDDB's volume 3(Meatsi: 146.1 kg/head            PRp 1,205.6/head                    11.9    14.9       14.9
(Frozen in poly bags                                     --      *-~    -j-        -s-
Operating Cost
Dliract Cost
Livestock purchases (LDDB's account)                 Avg. 270 kg/head             PRp      2.50/kg            --        6.8      8.4      8.4
*condcenations 17.
Direct labor                                        (skilled   90 persons         PRp   600  /month                     1.0      1.0       1.0
(unskilled 90 persons         PRp   350  /month
puel, povr                                          (30 KWH 1 head                PRp      0.3/KWH            __        1.0      1.1      1.1
(15 kg F.0./head              PRp      0.6/kg
Lubricants, water treatment                               --                      107 of energy bill          --        0.1     0.1       0.1
Ceneral materials, salt                              2 kg salt/hide               PRp      1.3/kg            --        0.2      0.2       0.2
Packaging materials                                  1 poly bag/0.25 kg           PRp      5  /100 bags      --        0.3      0.4       0.4
Freight livestock                                    radius: 300 km               PRp    50  /head            --       0.5      0.5       0.5
Marketing expenses                                   radius:  50 km               PRp   200  /ton             --        0.3      0.4      0.4
Taxes                                               (Access tax into city         PRp      2.20heatd                    0.0     0.0       0.O
(Slaughtering fee             Pip      0.75/head         -          .        .         .
Sub-total                                                                                                     --       10.2    12.1      12.1
Overhead Cost
Maintenance 4/                                       20 persons                    PRp   600  /month          --          0.2      0.2       0.2
Administration expenses                                                           US$12,000  /month           --          1.4      1.4       1.4
Technical, administrative, supervisory personnel 25 persons                       PRp 1,200  /month           --          0.4      0.4       0.4
Management                                            4 persons                   PRp 3,000  /month          _            0.1      0.1       0.1
Sub-total                                                                                                     --          2.1      2.1       2.1
Total Operating Cost                                 229 persons                                                       12.3    14.2      14.2
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                         -        11.2    11.7      11.7
1/  The plant would be built in years 1-2 and commence operations in year 3.  It would slaughter buffalos and cattle  or the private                    X
meat trade in Lahore (butcher's account) and for LDDB's account, LDDB's meat would be sold mostly in Lahore.
2/  Slaughtering in the new plant would not represent an additional cost to butchers, their current costs would be paid as a fee/head.
3/ From Table 2.
4/  Including maintenance materials.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Cash Flow Projections
(Rs Millions)
---------------------------------------------------  Years  --------------________________________________________
1     2     3      4     5      6     7      8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Income
Borrower'sa equit               3.8   6.5  --    --                --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --            --    --        --    --    --
Long terM  loan 23             15.2  26.3  --    --    :-    --    --    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __    __
Short term loan 3/              0.1   1.4  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Total sales 4/                 --    --    23.5  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9
Last year's cash balance       --      0.1   0.1   3.6   4.7   5.1   5.3   3.0   2.8   2.4   1.8   1.5   4.0   8.8  13.6  18.4  23.2  11.7   2.5   2.3
Total Cash Inflow.             19.1  343  23.6  29  5  30.6  31.0  31.?  28.9  28.7  28.3  27.7  27.4  29.9  34.7  39.5  44.3  49.1  37.6  28.4  28.2
Expenditures
5/                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.3
Investments:Fixed assets    ,jX9.0  32.3  --    __          _          2.3  --    -_    _               2.3  --        --  __           14.0  14.0  --    --
Working capital§ --       0.5  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --             -      --    --
4/
Operating Costs                --    --    11.8  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2
Debt Service:
Long term loan principal   --    --    --        3.9   4.2   4.6   5.0   5.4   5.8   6.3   6.3  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Long term loan interest    --        1.3   3.5   3.5   3.2   2.8   2.4   2.0   1.6   1.1   0.5  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Short temr loan principal  --       0.1   1.4              -        --    --    --         --    -- --    --    --    --    --    --               --    --
Short term loan interest   --       0.0   0.2  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --                --    --         --        --    --    --    --
Income Tax 7                   --    --      2.1   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.8   3.0   3.2   3.4   3.7   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9
Dividends Distributed          --    --      1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   8.0   8.0
Total Cash Outflow             19.0  34.2  20.0  24.8  25.5  25.7  28.2  26,1  26.3  26.5  26.2  23.4  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  37.4  35.1  26.1  26.1   cr 
Cash Balance at Year's End  0.1   0.1   3.6   4.7   5.1   5.3   3.0   2.8   2.4   1.8   1.5   4.0   8.8  13.6  18.4  23.2  11.7   2.5   2.3   2.1                    X
1/  207 of total investment.
2/  80% of total investment, 8VX interest, 10 years including 2 years of grace.
3/  12k of interest.
4/  From Table 2.
5/  From Table 1, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and tranaportation equipment in
years 7-12-17 including duties and excluding engineering.
6/  Equivalent to two weeks' turnover.
7/  50%, after interest charges and Rs 3.8M depreciation charge.



PAKISTAN
PUtNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVET,OPMFNTr PROJECT
Financial Rate of R,tura
(Rs Milliona)
---------------------------------------------           ------- ------  Years   ----------  ------------------------------------------------
1        2      3      4      5       6      7      8      9       10      11       12     13     14     15      16     17      18       19     20       Totals
Total Sales I          --       --     23.5  25.9  2;.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9   25.9    25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9   25.9  25.9    25.9    25.9  25.9                        463.8
C,ost .
rn.estr.nuts t   2     19.0     32.8  --       --    --    --        2.3 --        --    --       --        2.3   --    --      --      --    16.3    14.0   --        --         86.7
3/
c,,,rari.,g Cnecs      --       --     11.8  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2   14.2    14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2   14.2  14.2   14.2   14.2  14.2                          253.2
.4
Inc, .ax              --        --      2.    2.2    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.0    3.2    3.4        3.7      3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9       3.9     3.9    3.9       60.5
TOL A  Cost         19.0      32.8  13.9  16.4  16.6  16.8  19.3  17.2  17.4  17.6    17.9    20.4  18.1  18.1  18.1   18.1  34.4   32.1   18.1  18.1                         400.4
: e:    rt_efcs (19.0)  (32.8)  9.6    9.5   9.3    9.1   6.6   8.7    8.5    8.3           8.0      5.5    7.8   7.8   7.8    7.8  (8.5)   (6.2)   7.8    7.8             65.4
Financial Rate of Return 12.6%  5
lilro.z Tahle 2.
'/  rc.n  r2L. 1. quip. ent r,piaced in years 17-18, vehicles in vears 7, )2 and 17.
'<   Jrating  cost in y.ar 3 does not reflect working capital which is included as invostment in year 2.
7    ir.a '.I.le 2.
(DX
O Ln



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
1.        Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is ubiquitous in Pakistan and infec-
tion is most frequent in areas of high livestock density, particularly in
the irrigated areas of the Punjab. It is said to be more prevalent in cat-
tle than in buffalo. Detailed surveys of the incidence of the disease are
lacking but farmers commonly experience outbreaks in May-June and particu-
larly in October-November. It appears probable that some 50% of all cattle
are affected by the disease in any one year. Limited viral typing indicates
that strains 0 and Asia I predominate; type A is common and type C has also
been reported. Sub-typing has not been possible to date due to limited fa-
cilities. Viral types SAT I and SAT II have not been detected. Surveys on
virus typing so far undertaken indicate the following results..
Virus Type
Province             A       0        C       Asia  I        Negative      Total
Baluchistan          7        5       -           3               7           22
Punjab              15       66       3          54              18          156
NWFP                 6       12       1           8              12           39
Sind                 8      13        -           8               3           32
Total            36      96        4          73              40         249
2.        Mortality among infected stock is reportedly low, except among
young calves whose mortality rate is said to be as high as 30%. Milk pro-
duction in lactating animals is depressed and lactation yields reduced by
5% to 50%. Crossbred dairy stock, based on indigenous cows mated to exotic
dairy sires, are particularly susceptible to the disease and their pro-
tection by vaccination with trivalent vaccine, and preferably tetravalent
vaccine, is regarded as essential. The vaccination of indigenous stock has
been commonly regarded as less important, but an increased appreciation of
the serious impact that FMD has on the work capacity of draft animals, coupled
with the coincidence of disease outbreaks with seasonal peaks in draft power
needs, is leading to a rapid expansion of the demand for vaccination of local
stock amongst those farmers who are aware that effective protection from the
disease is possible.
3.        Production of FMD vaccine is carried out at the Veterinary Research
Institute (VRI) in Lahore. The production methods in use and the physical ca-
pacity of existing equipment limit production to 60,000 trivalent doses of



ANNEX 6
Page 2
vaccine per year, a completely inadequate quantity in relation to existing
demand. Almost all existing FMD vaccine is used by the military dairy farms,
for the stock (both State-owned and tenant-owned) on government farms, and
for some cattle and buffalo in the area of the VRI Lahore. There is little
opportunity with existing supplies to provide for the control of localized
outbreaks by ring vaccination, or for preventive control among the individual
animals of small farmers.
4.        The use of tissue culture techniques has become a routine in the
production of vaccines for several diseases at the VRI and the institute has
adopted the method on a pilot scale for the production of FMD vaccine. An
extensive field service of veterinarians and stock assistants exists through-
out the Punjab to provide effective vaccination against other important di-
seases (Haemorragic Septicaemia, Blackquarter, Anthrax and Rinderpest) for
which vaccine supplies are more readily available. If FMD vaccine were avail-
able its effective use in the Punjab would present few organizational problems.
5.        Demand for vaccine is greatly in excess of present supply but the
actual scale of demand can only be roughly estimated at this stage. A tenta-
tive assumption of likely usage in the next four-year period suggests that a
production facility of 3 M monovalent doses is a desirable objective. Subse-
quent demand is considered likely to increase rapidly to the 20 M dose mark.
Economics of scale favor the construction of a 20 M to 30 M production unit
but the need to train staff and to test the economic benefits of FMD vaccine
lead to a smaller scale starting point.
Estimated Demand for FMD Vaccine 1980
No. of Animals       Doses per Annum 1/
Government and military farms          20,000                120,000
Milkshed areas  - Lahore              100,000                600,000
- Karachi            100,000               600,000
- Other               50,000               300,000
Draft cattle in 500 VLAs              100,000                600,000
Other draft animals                   100,000               600,000
2.820,000
1/   Assuming trivalent vaccine (A,0 and Asia I) and six monthly vaccination.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        The immediate steps required to achieve the fixed target of an out-
put level of 3 M monovalent doses per annum are:
(a) To train staff to operate a production unit involving
the cultivation of BHK cells in both suspension and
monolayer.
(b) To design and construct a production unit of 3 M monovalent
doses per annum, capable of easy expansion to 10 M doses per
annum.
(c) To intensify survey work on FMD virus types and subtypes.
(d) To plan and implement adequate field trials to assess the
impact that adequate FMD vaccination produces on both in-
cremental agricultural output (through improved productiv-
ity of draft cattle) and on livestock production*per se.
7.        A suitable building with adequate land and water, and constructed
as an FMD laboratory, is available to bouse the FMD vaccine production unit
next to the VRI Lahore. Staff training requirements necessitate two man
years of overseas training in FMD typing and one man year in potency testing.
Two man years of consultant services in FMD vaccine production are required
to establish production procedures and to ensure adequate initial operation
of the laboratory. A contract for a package of design services, consultant
assistance and staff training would be offered to selected manufacturers of
FMD vaccine whose terms of reference are outlined in Appendix 1 of the main
report.
8.        The estimate of expenditures required for the production of 60,000
monovalent doses (at 5 ml) per week are:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
US dollars    -                    Foreign
Exchange
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3        Total        M
Staff training and
consultant services      50,000    100,000    50,000       200,000        80
Design Study            100,000      50,000                 150,000       80
Provision of air
conditioning cold
rooms, effluent
water treatment,
steam generation,
standby power gen-
erator                              400,000   100,000      500,000        75
General Laboratory
equipment                           100,000    50,000      150,000        80
Facilities for cold
storage of cells and
virus based on liquid
nitrogen                             50,000    25,000       75,000        80
Production unit with
fermentor tanks                     500,000   200,000      700,000        75
Bottling storage and
vaccine distribution                150,000                 150,000       70
Physical contingencies              112,000    35,200      147.200        80
150,000  1,462,000   460,200   2,072,200
9.        Operating costs of the FMD unit are essentially confined to staffing
and the maintenance of services and facilities. The expected breakdown of
production costs per annum in the initial years is:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
US$
Depreciation on equipment                     210,000
Interest on capital                           250,000
Staff                                          50,000
Water, power, test animals and
media requirements                            100,000
Contingencies                                  50,000
660,000
Expected cost per monovalent dose                0.22
10.       The need for increased FMD vaccine production has long been recog-
nized by GOP and GOPa. UNDP was approached for assistance and a program was
under preparation but could not be implemented. The U.K. Government has since
shown interest in supporting the project. If, at the time of negotiations,
definite proof of bilateral or other multi-lateral support to FMD vaccine
production should be available, IDA support for this project component would
be deleted and parallel or joint financing would be sought.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE VILLAGE LIVESTOCK ASSOCIATION AND INCREASED FARM PRODUCTION
1.        The Village Livestock Association (VLA) concept is based upon an
appropriate modification for Pakistan conditions, of the successful Amul
model of village dairy societies. The VLA's would be community organiza-
tions operated by village farmers and directed towards increasing livestock
production. By their affiliation with a larger grouping capable of sup-
plying training programs, technical, extension, market and credit services
and management guidance, they would also provide a unique focal point for
stimulating developments in agricultural output.
2.        The farming models used in projecting the production of a VLA are
typical of the average village of the Project area which contains some 1.07
million acres of cultivated land, 130,000 farm units and 30,000 landless
stock owning families. The number of buffalo and cattle located in the dis-
trict number 540,000 buffalo and 260,000 respectively. The average village
has about 130 farm units plus 30 livestock owning but landless families. For
project formulation purposes it is assumed that 50% of villages in the pro-
ject area will form VLA's and that 70% of the small farmers and stock owners
in each VLA village will become members.  The membership of each VLA is ex-
pected to reach its maximum in the fourth year and include about 70% of the
550 buffalo and 300 cattle in the typical village. The project would con-
sist of about 500 VLA's and 500 villages, and at maturity would cover an es-
timated 50,000 families, 100,000 breeding buffalo, 30,000 breeding cows and
250,000 acres of crop land. Peak agricultural production would be reached
in year 12 of the project.
3.        Key features of the organization and function of the VLA's are
summarized in Appendix 1 and the method of formation of the VLA is outlined
in Annex 8. The specific objective of this Annex is to discuss the expected
incremental output of the typical VLA and of the farmers participating in
a VLA. Its purpose is: to determine the incremental benefits occuring
from project activities at the farm and VLA level; to estimate effects of
the project on farm incomes for representative farm sizes; and to assess
what part of the project costs project beneficiaries might reasonably be
expected to repay.
4.        Housebolds in the project area can be classified, rather arbi-
tratrily, into four groups according to their economic situation.
5.        Landless livestock owners, most of whom earn part of their
living as daily workers in the fields, in construction or distribution.
They make up about 15% of the bouseholds in the project area.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.        Marginal farmers cultivate less than-5 ac of land and frequently
half of the household income is from work outside the family farm. These
farmers comprise roughly 50% of farms in the project area and about 15%
of the crop area.
7.        Small farmers cultivate an area of 5 to 25 acres and have a per
capita income that straddles the national average. About 45% of households
are in this category and they occupy about 50% of the cultivated land.
8.        Medium to large farmers own and/or rent more than 25 acres and
make up the rural elite. They constitute about 5% of housebolds and farm
some 35% of the project crop area.
Subsistence Requirements
9.        Living expenses for a family in the project area presently average
about Rs 1,650, roughly the average of national per capita income. Basic
food requirements per capita per year consist of about 150 Kg of grain,
3.5 Kg of edible oil, 70 litres of milk and 6 Kg of meat costing about
Rs 275 per capita. The average family size is about 6 persons providing
3 potential labour units.
Tax Payments
10.       Project area landowners entitled to a proportion of canal water
determined by the size of their holding pay water charges to the Irrigation
Department overseer on each water course (the patwari). Water charges are
based on a produce index unit identified for each major land type and re-
flect general water availability and the relative fertility and salinity
of the land. They approximate about Rs 20 per crop per year. Land re-
venues are payable by farmers with more than 12.5 acres and are also deter-
mined by produce index units. They average about Rs 15 per acre. By far
the most important source of agricultural taxation is the difference between
financial and economic prices for the products the farmer produces; average
producer prices for the period 1967-75 were roughly one third of equivalent
border prices, a ratio which implies that a further Rs 1000 per acre would
accrue to farm incomes if farmers received prices equivalent to international
border prices.
Farm Production
11.       Data on present livestock numbers, productivity and cropping pat-
terns in the project area have been derived from land revenue and census
records and from information supplied by the Ministries of Livestock and
Agriculture. Table 1 and 2 summarize VLA herd projections, Tables 3 and 4
project livestock production and income and Table 5 projects crop yield
levels and input usage. Future crop yields are based on the experience
and husbandry practices of the more progressive and better farmers in the
project area. Financial prices used are current prices; economic prices
are based on the price forecasts of the IBRD adjusted for difference between



ANNEX 7
Page 3
prices received or paid for Pakistan's internationally traded goods. Hired
labour has been at Rs 10 per man day which is approximately equal to the
average market wage charged. The income of landless and marginal farmers
reflects some outside work in addition to income from farm and livestock
production. The cost of a pair of bullocks is roughly equal to the daily
rental charge (Rs 10.0 excluding driver) and this cost is absorbed in the
farm budgets by limiting the number of milk and beef producing stock the
farm carries, the difference being made up by working bullocks fed from crop
byproducts and fodder crops; the annual requirements for draft power are
summarized per unit area of crop in Table 5. Most small and medium sized
farmers have oxen which they own, share or hire. A few large farmers own
tractors and which are also available for hire for primary land cultivation.
Agricultural Production
12.       Increased agricultural output is expected to arise from 3 main
inputs: the provision of much better and more intensive extension services;
the provision of more reliable and increased bullock draft power through
the better health, nutrition and breeding services provided, and the en-
hanced access to institutional credit that membership in the VLA would pro-
vide. The financial benefits attributable to the incremental output are
summarized by farm size grouping in Table 6 and the incremental farm pro-
duction and its financial and economic values are summarized in Table 7.
In assessing the financial situation of a typical VLA no account has been
taken of the incremental agricultural production that the functioning of a
VLA is expected to lead to. The financial income of the typical VLA would
be based entirely on its milk collection operations.
The VLA and its Services
13.       The central function of the VLA would be to provide a milk market-
ing service. VLA's would collect milk twice daily at a central collection
point in the village. The quantity delivered by each farmer would be re-
corded and payment based on fat content, fat testing being carried out in
the VLA using composite daily samples. Milk would be bulked in 40 litre
cans and transported to the Central Milk Plant along defined routes serving
13-15 VLA's. As the maximum time between first pick up and milk cooling
cannot exceed four hours, six regional chilling centres would be provided
for the more distant routes. These would be managed and financed by the
Milk Plant.
14.       The Ministry of Livestock Development would make a daily delivery
of semen to each VLA by means of the milk collection truck. The VLA Secre-
tary would be trained at the Board Training Centre to provide AI services
and he would receive support in this function from the Government AI service.
15.       For each milk collection route the Milk Plant would operate a
mobile veterinary unit with vaccination and animal health kits and staffed
by a qualified veterinarian and helper to provide routine veterinary services



ANNEX 7
Page 4
to the members of the VLA. Each association would be visited once weekly
on fixed days at a fixed time. There would be no charge by the Plant for
routine visits to members' animals but a fee of Rs 20 per visit to non
members' animals would be charged. Drugs and vaccines would be charged at
cost.
Investments and Financial Operations
16.       The physical investment for a VLA would consist of milk collection
and testing equipment, an AI crate, veterinary and AI equipment and some fur-
niture. Table 8 shows the expected income stream and operating costs of a
typical VLA. The initial years operations would be supported by Government
financing the salary of staff for four months including the two months of
training, and providing an interest free loan for the initial equipment costs
from the counterpart funds created by the ongoing Lahore WFP Milk Project.
Working capital needs would be small as the Milk Plant would pay the VLA
weekly and the VLA would pay to members the same day. Initial working capital
requirements would be financed from membership fees. Application of the annual
surplus would be governed by the VLA bylaws. A VLA would also be able to
purchase additional shares worth Rs 73,000 in the Milk Plant by year 10 from
the reserve funds of Rs 88,400.
Accounts and Auditing
17.       VLA accounts would be maintained by the society secretary who would
also supervise milk collection, record members milk deliveries, compute pay-
ments and disburse payments to each member. VLA staff would be trained at the
PLB training center (Annex 8). Managerial assistance would also be available
to each VLA from the PLB. The accounts of each VLA would be audited at least
each four months by the PLB's auditors and the results and financial position
of the VLA communicated to members at least twice yearly. Audit fees would be
covered by Government for the first 3 years.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
VLA By-Laws Highlights
Objectives
1.        To increase milk, meat and agricultural output through improved hus-
bandry, the provision of improved extension and primary market services and
the more efficient use of production inputs.
Membership
2.        Only livestock owners residing and in good standing in the area, and
owning at least one cow or buffalo; not engaged in milk collection or sale ex-
cept under VLA auspices; owning at least one share in the Association (Rs 10
par value).  Services available to non-members only on terms as specified by
majority vote of membership; no bonuses to non-members; limited liability of
Association.
Meeting
3.        Supreme authority vested in general meeting of members which reviews
management performance; provides policy guidelines; approves or rejects budgets
and new programs; elects management committee; one member one vote; majority
rule.
Management
4.        Membership meeting to elect management committee of VLA members of
seven to nine members; fixed terms of office; chairman elected annually by
the committee; committee employs staff and supervises operations; allocates
bonuses and works to ensure VLA profitability. Registrar of companies may
appoint administrator when mismanagement is evident.
Funds
5.        Share subscriptions, donations, loans, deposits; share transac-
tions at par value only (Rs 10); no members' share to exceed 1/10 of paid
up capital; and loan and deposit liabilities not to exceed five times net
worth.
Payments to Members
6.        Daily milk payments unless otherwise specified by majority vote of
membership, subject to fourteen day maximum payment period.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
Credit
7.        No loans or advances in cash or kind, excepting trade credit ex-
tended to the Punjab Livestock Board; no undertakings of any kind with res-
pect to a member's or any other party's debts without two-thirds approval
of the management committee.
Allocation of Earnings
8.        25% of net profit allocated to Reserve Fund (80% or more of this
invested in Milk Plant Shares for at least first 10 years) 2% to Village
Education Fund; maximum dividend 9% of share capital. Balance distributed
as follows: 65% bonus to members based on patronage, 10% to the cattle
development fund, 10% to community development fund, 10% to village inform-
ation fund and 5% bonus to staff.
By-law Changes
9.        Subject to approval by a two-thirds majority of general meeting,
at least 50% of members and approval of the Registrar of Companies.



AM=IE 7
Ta'ble 1
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -  YEAR  --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  -
hD        1       2       3       4       5       6       7       a        9      10      11      12
-------                                   - -          ----------------            -----------
TICHNICAL COEFFICIENTS:
CALVING RATE                  0,00   0.60   0.65   0.70   0.75   0.80   0.80i  0.80   0.80   0,0 o.o            o    0o.30   0.60
M CALF MORT. RATE             0.00   0.08   0.07   0.07   0.06   0,06   o.0S   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05
F CALF MORT. RATE             0.00   0.12   0.11    0.10   0.09   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08
ADULT MORT. RATE              0.00   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04
BULL CULLING RATE             0,00   0.10   0.11   0.12   0.13   0.14   0.15   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20
COW CULLING RATE              0.00   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12
_____6WFCR_pULL  ~TI       _       0.10   o.g            0.1k0 .1a 0.1  s  k<UALM    k411    Q.tq_ °A     101°_ to  o.IQ   0.10
ON HAND YLAR END                 2       3       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       4       4       4       4
COWS.
BESINNING OF YEAR                0      68      67      66      67      71      75      79       84      89      94      99      99
+TRANSFER                        0      l1      11      13      16      17       18      19      21      22      23      18      18
-DEATHS                          0       3       3       3       3       3        3       3       4       4       4       4       4
-CULLED                          0       9       9       9       9      10       11      11      12      13      14      14      14
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASE                        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                68      67      66      67      71      75      79      84       69      94      99      99      99
HEIFERS,2-3 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR                0      12      14      17      16      19      21      23       24      26      27      29      31
-DEATHS                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       1       1       1       1
-CULLED                          0       1       1       1       1       1       2        2       2       2       2       2       3
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       6       s       8
+PURCHASES                       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                11      11      13      16      17      18      19      21      22       23      113     la      19
HEIFERS,1-2 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR                0      15      18      19      21      23      26      27       29      31      33      35      36
-DEATHS                          0       0       0       0       0       0        1       1       1       1       1       1       1
-CULLED                          0       1       1       1       2       2       2        2       2       3       3       3       3
--SALE                           0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASES                       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                12      14      17      18      19      21      23      24       26      27      29      31      32
CALVES,0-1 YEARSt
CALVES BORN,                     0      40      43      46      50      56      59      63       67      71      75      79      79
FEMALES BORN                     0      20      21      23      25      28      29       31      33      35      37      39      39
--DEATHS                         0       2       2       2       2       2        2       2       2               2       3       3
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASES                       0       0       5       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                15      18      19      21      23      26      27      29       31      33      35      36      36
MALES BORN                       0      20      21      23      25      28      29      31       33      35      37      39      39
-DEATHS                          0       1       1       1       1        1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
--SALE                           0       0       0       0       0        0       o       0       0       0       0       0 o     0
iFPURCHASES                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                19      19      20      22      24      27      28      30       32      34      36      38      38
MALES,1-2 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR                0      19      19      20      22      24      27      28      30       32      34      36      38
-DEATHS                          0       0       0       0       0        0       1       1       1       I       1       1       1
-TRANSFER TO BULL                0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASES                       0 0         0       0       0       0       0        0       0           0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                17      19      19      20      22      24      26      27      29       31      33      35      37
MALES,2-3 YEARS:
DEGINNING OF YEAR                0      17      19      19      20      22      24      26       27     :l9      31      33      35
-DEATHS                          0       0       0       0       0        0       0       1       1       1       1       1       1
-TRANSFER TO BULL                0       1       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       1       0       0       0
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASES                       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                15      16      19      19      20      22      24      25      26       27      30      32      34
MALES,3-4 YEARS;
BEGINNING OF YEAR                0      15      16      19      19      20      22      24       25      26      27      30      32
-DEATHS                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       1       1       1       1
-SALE                            0       0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0 °             0
ON HAND YEAR END                14      15      16      19      19      20      22      24       25      25      26      29      31
MALES, 4 -  5 YEARS            14      13      14      15      18      18      19      21       23      24      24      24      27
MALES,s-  6 YEARS              13      13      12      13      14      17      17      18      20       22      23      23      23
MALES, 6 -  7 YEARS            12      12      12      11      12      13      16      16       17      19      21      22      22
MALES, 7 -  8 YEARS            11      11      11      11      10      11      12       15     15       16      18      20      21
MALES, 8 -  9 YEARS            10      10      10      10      10       9      10      11       14      14      15      17      19
MALES, 9 - 10 YEARS            10       9       9       9       9       9       6       9       10      13      13      14      16
TOTAL ANIMAL NUMBERS:
TOTAL (HEAD)             -     243    250    260    274    291    313 -  333    357    382    406    424    442    458
TOTAL (AU)                     207    211    217    226    240    256    273    293    313    334,   350    365    380/
SALES:
MALES  10 YEARS                  0       9       9       9       9       9        8       9      10      13      13      14      16
COWS                             0       9       9       9       9      10      11      11       12      13      14      14      14
HEIFERS,2-3 YEARS                0       1       1       1       1       1       2       2        2       2       2       2       3
HEIFERSPI-2 YEARS                0       1       1       1       2       2       2        2       2       3       3       3       3



ME~~~~~~~~~~~~M 
YEAR B L                                             -- 
VLDEFBDS EBD0O
--------------------------------------------------- YEAR --------------------------~------------------------'------------------
BD        1       2       3       4      5       6       7       a       9      10      11      12
-----------------------------_------------------------------------_-_-________________________   ------------------------- ------
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS5
CALVING RATE                 0.00   0.50   0.50   0.52   0.56   0.60   0.60   0.60   0,60   0,60   0.60   0,60   0.60
M CALF MORT. RATE            0.00   0.30   0.30   0.27   0.24   0.20   0.16   0.12   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
F CALF MORT. RATE            0.00   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0,10   0.10   0.10   0,10   0,10
ADULT MORT. RATE             0.00   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.0V   0.05   0.05
BULL CULLING RATE            0.00   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
COW CULLINa,&AT6             0.00   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0,12   0.12   0.12   0.12   0.12
HEIFER CULLrM GATC           0.00   0.05   0,06   0.07   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
ON' AND YEAf"tN0      -         9   ~9          9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9       9      9
COW$,26 :.                                                                                                                        6
BEGINNING OF YEAR               0    260    257    254    250    256    256    257    259    260    261    261               261
+TRANSFER                       0      42      40      39      49      45      46      47      53      53      52     52      52
-DEATHS                         0      15      14      14      14      15      15      tS      15      15      iS      15     15
-CULLED                         0      30      29      29      29      30      30      30      37      37      37      37      37
-CUALED0                                    0       0           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
-SALE                           O       O       C       O       O       O                                                       0   
+PURCHASE                       00                  0       0       0       0           0               0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END              260    257    254    250    256    256    257    259    260    261    261              261    261
HEIFERS,2-3 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR               0      44      43      54      S2      53      54      60      60      61      61      61     61
--DEATHS                        0       2       2       2       2       2       2    * 2        2       3       3       2       2
-CULLED                         0       2       2       3       5       5       S       5       5       6       6       6       6
-SALE                  ~~      ~~      ~~~~0  0  0  0   0       0       0       0       0       C      0       0       0
-SALE                                                                   0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     
+PURCHASES                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END               42      40      39      49      45      46      47      53      53      52      52      52     52
HEIFERS,1-2 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR               0      47      59      50      60      63      69      69      70      70     70      71      71
-DEATHS                         0       2       2       2       2       3       3       2       2       3       3       2       2
-CULLED                         0       2       3       4       S       6       6       6       6       6       6       7       7
-SALE                           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0
4PURCHASES                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END               44      43      54      52      53      54      60      60      61      61      61      61     61
CALVES'0-1 YEARS:
CALVES BORN                     0    130    128    132    139    153    153    154    155    155    156              126    156
FEMALES BORN                    0      65      64      66      69      76      76      77      77      77      78      70     70
-DlEATHS                        0       6       6       6       6       7       7       7       7       7      7       7       7
-SALE                           0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
+PURCHASES                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END               47      59      5S      60      63      69      69      70      70      70      71     71      71
MALES BORN      -0                     65      64      66      69      76      76      77      77      77     78      78      70
-DEATHS                         0      19      19      17      16      15      12       9       7       7       7      7       7
-SALE                           0      46      45      49      53      61      64      68      70      70      71     71      71
+PURCHASES                      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
ON HAND YEAR END                0       0       0       0       00  0  0    0       0       0       0       0
TOTAL ANIMAL NUMBERS:
TOTAL (HEAD)                  402    400    414    420    426    424    442    451    453    453    454    404    454
TOTAL (AU)                    364    366    371    375            380 3SS    392    399    401    401    402    402          402
S ALE   CLVS                             46      45      49     52      61      64      68       0      7        :       1      7
MALES  C                                       26  4   429     29      30      30      60      27      37      37      77      27
tows                            O      30       29      3       5               5       5       5       6       6       6       6
lHEIFERS,2-3 YEARS               0           2       2                   6       6                      6       6       7       7
HEIFERS,1-2 YEARS               0       2       3       4



PAUISTAN
PUVJAB LUVIOOK- pHXOzCT
_ VILLACE LIVESTOCK ASSoCIATTAN PRO.&CTED  iproME  FaiM RIVpAU1J
1          2          3          4        -5            6          7           B          9          10          11           12
Ibpeem
Cows                                      260        257         254        250        256        256         257        259        260         261         261          261
Ca1virg Rats %                             50          50         52         56         60         60          60         60         60          60          60           60
Total Milk Sold                        104000     109225      11872     133000     153600     161280      169620     170940     171600    172260        172260      172260
Price/litre JRs)                          1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
Milk Income (Rs)                       12480)    131070       142646     159600     184z320    193536      203544     205128     205920      206712      206712      206712
Buffalo Sales No.                          80          79         85         92        102        105         109        118        119         120         121         121
Ar. Liveleigtt Sold                       220         225        230        235        210         2345       250        255         260        260         260          260
Price/Kg (Rs)                             2.0         2.0        2.1        2.1        2.2         2.2        2.3        2.3        2.3         2.3         2.3          2.3
&lDfa.lo Sales Imro    (R)              35200       35550      41055      45402      53856      56595       62675      69207      71162       71760       72358       72355
Total Sales (R.)                       160000     166623     183701      205002'   238176      250131      266219     274335     277082      2781472     279070      279070             F, X
VILLAGE LIVFSTOCK ASSOCTAITTO  PROJECTrE  TCrOWz pRnM CATTrt
1          2          3          4          5           6          7          8           9          10          11           12
Rupeee
Cows                                       68          67         66         67         71          75         79         84          89         94          99           99
Calvin Rate %                              60          65         70         75         80          80         80         80          80         80          8a 8o
H Sales/Cow                               200         250        300        350        400         500        600        700         800        900         900          900
Total Milk Sold                          8160      10890       13860      17590      22700      30000       37920      47040      56960      676d0        71280       71280
Price/litre (Ra)                          1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0          1.0
Milk Incone                              8160      10890       13860      17590      22700       30000      37920      47040       56960      676e0       71280        71280
Cattle SalWo w .                           20          20         20         21         22          23         24         26          31         32          33           36             3
Lv. Liv.weigbt Sold                       150         155        160        365        170         175        175        175         175        175         175          175            a,
Price/jg (Re)                             2.0         2.0        2.1        2.1        2.2         2.2        2.2        2.2         2.2        2.2         2.2          2.2           Fi MD
Cattle Sales Income                      6000       6200        6720       7277       8228        8855       9240      10010      11935       12320       12705        13860           CD X
Total Sl. (Ba)                         16160      17090       2058o      24867      30928       38855      47160      57050      68895       80000       83985       85140



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GkUP IWDGETS - vL& FA.IS - FINIAUL PRICEs
(per Hectare)
GRUS5       ------------N          COSTS---P)J  CSS  -----      COST          NET         LA8flRY/  ANItAL&/  WATER
CROP        YIELD        PRICE        VALUV       SEEn    FFRTILIZEN PESTICIDE    OTHER.!/    TOTAL               VALUE          REO          REO        EQ
(T/HA)      ('S )        (RS I       IRS )        (R*S I        (RS I       (RS         C            (R/S )       (DAYS)       (DAYS)       (HA.INS.)
PRESENT
eHFT   1.3    t107).0  1391.0     18r4.a      Ž?9.1            0.0        0.0       463i.9       9?7.4         62.4         48.0           20
BASR               1.9      132.0       ?58. 0       10.0         1170.6        134.4        0.0        h 609.0    1899.Q          7?20        21.6           65.
IVRR               2 t.6     8/ 01,     2?a8,0        66o0       370.6          230.4        0.0       574.0       1717.0         72.0         21.6           60
fr4ZT              13       I qyl f.   0  136h.0      37.7        370.6          80.6         0.0       488f9       876,1          6 4, it      16.8          25
tilts             (n.      2620.0       1310.0        87.0        219.1           0.0         0.0       36t..1       903.9         33.6         24.4           20
i,Am               0.5      41 i".0      h 60.0       39.0        140.8           0.0        0.0        179.8       910.2           6,94        12.0          15
CJrT               n,s     2 ,60        248q.0       121.0 1o40.8               134,4         0 .       39 6.2     2087,8         90,4          16.8          40
S.jGR            26.0        1S1(.o     3900.0   ,   l2.0         27194        0t7.5         0.0        398.7      35°1.3        180.0         72.0           70
hERS             23.7          n.o          0,0      112,2,       IH5.3           0.0        0.0        297.5      -297.5          43,2        12.0           35
el( fin           14.1         0In          0.0       48.0         93.a           0.0         0.0       141.8      -141,8         s2.8          14.4          15
m I LA              *.44    l 2 0).o                                       ,                                                       39.0          0.0           0
HEAT                .08    20iIU-.0                                                                                                20.0          0.0           0
FJTUtRE WITHOUT PRtlJECr
w1ET               1.5      13)10.0     1990.0       I8ll.8       112.7           0.0         0.l       4197.5     1452.5          h2,4        48.0           20
is8R               ?,I      13201.0     2772.0        98.8        396.17        IS1,6         0.0      6h0.0       2122,0          72.o        21.6           65
1081               2.8       lk) .0.    2800.0        ss.0        39t6.7        154.6        0.0       606h.2      2193.8         72,o         21.6           60
MAZT               I.S    I4l0.     ts9n.o0           37.7        396.7          93.0         0.0       S27.3      1422.7          64,8         16.8          25
IIILS              0.6     20to ,       17110.0       87.0        127.4          26. 9        0.0       441.3      1298,7          33,6         14.4          20
GRAM               O.h 6     3fO.kr       828.0       39.0       14.i,4          26.9         0.0       231.2       596,8          26.4         12.0          15
COlrT              1.01    39".o        3900.0       131.o        154.?         Is49.6       0.0        440.8    31059,2          50 4         46.8           40
a^b.w,k            ,0,      41 8(       9400.0        12.0        312.7         123,2        0.0       447.9 9     49-,l         180,0         72.0           70
dFPPS            27.3          0.14         0.0      112.2        240.5           0.0        0.0        392.7      -SS2,7         43.2         12.0           35
KFlrl             l6.0 °.o                  0.0       48.0        117.7            0.0        0.0       I69.7       .IhS.7         52.8         14.4          15
MILh                .55    44 o)                          ^                                                                        39.0          0.0           °
mEAT                .10   ?12811.0                                                                                                 20,0          0,0           O
FLTokEf wITH VPfIJFCT
wHFT               1.8     I34)0,O     23'40.0      181.8       448.3           0.0         0.0       633,1      1707.0          62.4        48.0           20
8A5Q               7.3      1320.0      3056.0        98.8        S29.0         26f.R         0.0       896.6      2139.5          72.0        21.6           65
IpRR             l3.4       1 0)1(1.0   3100.0        95.0        ?29.0        2h6.8         n.0       R92.8       2247.3         72.0         21.6           60
MAZT               I 11    1 410   .0  2340.0        31.1        529.0 o            .3       0.0       727.9      1812.1 6I4.8                 16.8          25
U4L9              0o,1     29o(.n       2320.0        87,0        467.f6         07.5         0.0        . 62.?    16 t1.8         SSt.        14.0           20
t;@ ^ A .          A01 .        4384. t)  1404.0      39.0        ?8 4.9        407.9         0.0       1q3 1.0     673.0          2,04         12.0          15
C(1t              I4.4      3SrO9 .0    384,0.0      1 2.0        2 69S.6       2,68.8        0.0       666.4      3183.t          50.4         16,8          40
S-Grp           l3.0         4,8".      n h300.0      144.8      529,0         219.0         0.0        7s8.8      5541.2        1a o0          72.0          70
beFRS            30.8          0. 4         0.0      112.2        386.9           0.0         0.0       499.1      .49Q9j          43.2         42.0          35
KFf)n             I71..,       1).          0,0       48.0       201,7            0.0        0.0        249.7      -249.6         5?.8         14.4           15       f      f
MILK                 .96        1 401).                                                                                            39.0          0.0           0
MPAt                 .15    228(.0                                                                                                 20.0          0.0           0       in -4
p1gter +a .4, r.re T, awrqrpA  Fr cherurr on * Ter rfrai bsrds.
Wticit  in gmpply are _t by biring at A chairg- Of kg lo/day.



Annex 7
Table 6
PAIEISThN
P11A1B LVES1OCK PRIJECT
PAPA CAM 11.0S
(Rs)
YR- -b
DLEsS          I        2         3        4         5         6                  a a      9        to       it        12       13        34       i5
AIIIs        1306.    1378.    1532.    17211.   2018.    .2161.    2350.    2185.    2591-    2688.    2723.    2731.  2731.    2731.   2731.
LlVESlDC
T OF FM) -  326.        341.     383.      431      504.      541.      587.     62a.      643.     672.      680.    681.   682.        682.    682.
x I NK        980.    1034-    119.    1393.   1514.    1626.    1763.    lW4.    1946.    2016.    2043.    2049.  2049.    2o49.   2o49.
oaMa IN0MB
tZ OF                                                 
4 I LR)      1000.    1000.    1000.   -1000.   1000    4000.    100w.    1000.    1000.    1o0o.    low.   1000.   1000.    1OO.   1000.
002=AL
on       ;  198g0.    2034.    2149.    2392.   2511.   -2626.    2763.    1864.    291.6.    3016.    3043.    3o49.  3049.    3049.   3049.
SISTDC8    1650        1650     1650.    1650.   1650.    165o.    2.0,                                                        1 _1650.  L_65Q.   __ lSo. _650-
CASHIIW      330       382      499.      743.    861.       976.    1113.    12-.    1296.    1336.         1393.   1399.  1399.    1399.   1399.
ZlMTZX
, ACR  FAI
135 VAL.   3s62.   3047.   4132.   4846.   %417.   S845.   6130.   6416.   6436.   6416.   6416.   6416.   6416.   6416.   6416.
PRnDlI(CTIOtn
3T OF         728.    77R.    h2f.    q53.    1054.   1129.    1179.   1229.   1229.   1279.   1279.   1229.    1229.    1229.   1229,
'UTS
3fD LAR                                      to. o.  a.  (p.  0.  0.      0.       0.        0.       0.        0.       0,        0.       0.       0°
STM SFRY      120.    l46.    2S2.    n17.    S49.    648.    713.    779.    779.    779.    779.                     779.    779.    779.    779.
I" INC-   2713.   2883. IN1C2.   3476.    s8lq.    4068.   4238.   4407.                   4407.   4407.   4407.   4407.   4407.    4407.   4407.
) OTttEW It CII'E
etpHIRF      10'9.   1OnO.   1000.    lOGo.    1000.    1000.    1600.    1000.   1000.   1000.   1000.   ioO.   1000.    tnoo.   1000.
O tITHER EXPENSES
tEm            39.       ss.      35.       3S.       3%.      35.       35.      35.       3s.      35.       35.      35.       35.      35.       sS.
1sBsTUC      thSo1.   1650.   1650.   IbSo%.   1650.   1650.   2500.   1b50.   165o.   16S0.   Ih60.    l690.    1650.   1bSO.   1650.
T CASHPFLU
NUAL         2o24.   2198.   2h67.   2741.   3129.   33A3.   5555.   3722.   3722.   3722.   3722.   1722.   3722.   3722.   3722.
MU4AtIVE   2024.   422b.   6S93.   q384.  12513.  15897.  194%0.  23172.  2hS94.  30617.  34339.  38061,  41783,  45506.  49228.
ARA* fAIN
OSS VAL.   73s.1.   7950;   45t40*.  104015.  11i9q.  12079.  12169. - 13259.  232959.  129.   1259.  13259.  13259.  13259.  13259.
PNODICT ION
ST OF        IsoSi.   l6b4.   1712.   197o.   2178.   2333.   21.6.   2%40.   2540.   254o.   ?540.   2540.   2540.   2540.   2540.
RED LAO                   n             o     .        0.       0.        0.        0.      0o         0.       0.       0.        0,       0.        0.
SY" SERV         H.      61.    322.    725.   10a47         12894   1450.    1611.   1611.   1611.   1611.   1612.   161l.    1611.   1611.
RM INC.    S9tS .   6181.   6507.   732U.   7970.   845s.   8:83.   9108.   9108.   9304.   9108.   9108,   9108.   9108.   9108.
1 UTHER EX PFt4SFS
TaEIQR                  too0.     10I.     IOo.      100.     100.      100.    180.        0OO.    10. ,   IOO.        OO.       0OO.    lOO.      tOO.
BS1SDT:B    Ih6-.   l-,U.   16S0n    1695.   160O.   16SO.   1,50.    16SO.   10SO.   IhS0.   IbSo.   IbSl.   1650.   1650.   1650.
WIAL          1 06(..   '1143.   47C7.   5 7ut    6220.   h7Q8        7o33.    7358.   7s58.   7354.   7358.   7358.   7358.   7358.   7358.
m tLAII'VE    411)6.   .57.  13294.  188*a.  2so84.   '.1191.  3Sf25.  40613.  53541.  60900.  64258.  7S616.  82975.  90333.  97b91                  .
' ACRZ PAM
TOi53 VAL.    56116.  3s470.  41324.  464%9.  94168.  58449.  61303.  64157.  6.ltS7.  641$7.  601S7.  64157.  64157.  64157. h 4157,
PRr)OUCION710
JOST OF       7240.   7711.   82n2.   95   l        o557. l .  11248.  l17mq.  12290.  12?29.  1229.  12?90.  12290.  12290.  1 2290.  12290.
IRED LAB      2462ia.   lnas.   3144.   3494w.   3740w 7       992.   OII l41.   4275.   '1275.    4275.   427.    M275.   4?r7.    4275.   4275.
JSTM 51119    2714.   3S225.   37ill      9(1.      6027.   6779.   7286(.   7704.   7194.    779'1.   7194g.    1194.    7194.   7794.   7794.
411(  11..    227gh.... 244^1.  26189.   301125.   35835.   36l389.   3A994*   s9798.   1q9795    3Q79^.   39798.   3;979.   39144,   09798.   39798
-) OTHFR EfPFNSES
ATER      ~91'.       o. 10.  900. 0*   90       9oo.    q00.       gl         o.      go         o(.     9l.       go         (o       o.      go
UB1IESTH1CE    1b-'a.              S I    h%%  5 0  I Io S .    16%0. o 65Q.    1650.   1690.   1650.   1650.   1650.    1650.    Ib0.    165o9o
_T CASNFLO*
*JNIIAI,     2(12"h.  21911t   ?  5I      7 A74I S  1281?.  3378 i. 3'A4   37?r8,   37193  32t 2                 37242.   37l rh48   37o483
JmJL A I IVE  2(1,116.  4" I1 7.  Wi 3?* . 3b7, 124.890. I 587~'9, 1924?7 3. 231I521I. 264A64. 363,3313   451    179    506   ~P4



PAKISTAN
IUNJAB LIV510)CK PROJECT
Incrmental Prodiction and Value of Prodcetion
ieonomic ad Winancial Price
Present                                                                          Future with Projet.
Gross Value            Value Added                                                     Orac Value               Value Added
hrea    Fild    ProditioD       hnanal    Zoonoeio    Financial    Econode             Area    Yield    ProductAon   Frinncial    Econood       Flmucgl    aeonme
(000 ha) IV/ha)    (000 T)        R'cs H)      (R'o N)     (Rig c)      (Rig x)       (OOD ba) (T/ha)    (000 T)         (R'I 11)     (RI& H)    (Ra's K)      tR'e 3
*.*at                                       57       1.3       74             79           131           58          89             77      1.8        138           180          221          131          165
Bs:si Rdo                                   30       1.9        57            76           316           59         285              25     2.3         58             77         232           54I          2S
I,Ii± ce                                     9        2.6       23            20            58           16          b9              0      3.1          0              0           0            0            0
v.X1t:A                                      4       1.3.       5              5             7            3           4             15      1.8         27             35          35           24            22
Ojlaeed.                                     1       0.5        1              2             2           1            2              1     0.8           1              3           4            2             3
3       0.5        1             2              2           1           1               4     0.8           3 -           4i          b             3             2
C¢c-ce                                      b4       0.9        3              9            19           8          17               5     1.1           6            19           33          1l             30
S-z&r                                        5      26.0      131             20            42          18           38              6    35.0         220            40           41I          35            39
B*.z ro_                                     9      23.7      209              0             0           0 -4i                     10    30.8         310             0            0           -5            -6
zari F&oSar                                 18      14.l      249              0             0           0           -4             21    17.6         377             0            0           -5            -7
M±lk Scld                                            0.44       55           120           120          120         120                    0.966       121            288         268           266          2do
47c7uioht Seld                                       0. C8      10            3S          _35            35          35                    0.150       190             76          76            76           76
,c-_a36       732, 7306               631                                               721          937          618           816
;htor ReqP iramen; (bs ins/yr)              4,793,000              *4,917,000
lAbour Raqairmr;t (000 m/4danylr)                9"j6D                                                                                  10,730
Draft ReqUremt (00 b.p. /day/yr)               4I,60                                                                                     5,510
.aft AvaiAbility (OO  b.p./days/yr)              3,062                                                                                   5,600
Ter O       asr I    Year 2    Yer 3    Yar 4    YearS    Ye r 6    Year 7    Yar 8    Year 9    Year 10    Yasr 11    Year 12
Value of Production (R's N)                  0          3        U3         25         38        63       101       139       177         202      228           253      253
Incrmental Yinancial  /V
Value o.' Production (R'e It)                0          2         9         i9         2d       147        75       103       132         150      16j           188       16                                        X
eXpared to future iithout PreJect.



PAlISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCJC PFOJJET
VILLIGE LViSTOCIK ASSOCIATIDN - CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(R 'I000)
Year I    Year 2    Tear 3    Year 4    Year 5    Yar 6    Year 7    Year 8    Y.a 9    Yeasr 10    Year 11    Year 12
Melk ers Milk Sales (OOOL)          112        130       143       150        175       191        207       217        225       239         243        213
None Members Xilk Saes (OOOL)        40         45        50         50        50        50         50        50         So        50          50         50
Sotal Ilk Sol4                      152        175       193        200       225       241        257       267        278       289         293         293
Revernue
Conmdssion on Milk (RO.V/L)        15.2       1-5       19.3       20.0      22.5       24.1      25.7      26.7       27.8      28.9        29.3       29.3
Ratension on non-members
deliveries (RO.I/L)               4.0       IL.5       5.o        5.o       5.0        5.0       5.o        5.0       5.o        5.o        5.0         5.0
Total                              19.2       22.0      24.3       25.0      27.5       29.1      30.7      31.7       32.8      33.9        34.3        34.3
Operatine Costs
Wages                               6.o        6.0       6.0        6.o       6.0       6.o        6.0       6.0        6.o       6.0         6.0         6.0
Rent.                               2.0     . 2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0
!tll: ?%ztir ard First Aid          2.0        2.0       2.1        2.2       2.3        2.4       2.o       2.8        3.0        3.2        3.2         3.2
Miscellaneous                       1.0        1.0       1.2        1.4       1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5         1.5         1.5
Intorest *;orkijg Capital           0.1        0.1       0.1        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2       0.3        0.3       0.3         0.3         0.3
Total                              11.1       11.1      11.4       11.8      12.0       12.1      12.5      12.6       12.8      13.0        13.0       13.0
j i_ anqLdnterest Tor Milk Plant        -         -          -         -         0.5       o.6        0.7       0.8        0.9       1.0         1.0        1.0
et Su-plusa                        8.1       10.9      12.9       13.2      15.0       16.4      17.5      18.3       19.1       19.9       20.3        20.3
Source of Fwars
Members Fee                         0.5        0.2       0.1                   -               -         -          -          -          -
MarAgemnt and Bpipaent Lon          4.0         -         -          -              -               -          -              -                -           -
Net Surplus                         8.1       10.9      12.9       13.2      15.0       16.4      17.5      18.3       19.1      19.9        20.3        20.3
Total                              12.6       11.1      13.0       13.2      15.0       16.4      17.5      18.3       19.1       19.9       20.3        20.3
Use of FunlB
Testing ari Collection bluipmnt      4.0        -         -          - _4.0               -         -         -         4.0        -           -           -
Loan Repayment                        0        1.0       1.5        1.5                  -          -         -          -          -                -
Bonus to Memsbers                    4.0       4.5       5.0        5.5       6.o       6.5        7.0       7.5        8.0       9.0        10.0        10.0
Reserve Fund
(i) Purchase Plant Shares         0.5        1.5       2.0        3.0       4.0       8.0        9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0         9.0         9.0
(ii) Working Capital               0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        -          -         -          -         -           -
tili) VlA Savings A/C               3.0        3.0       3.0       1.7       (0.5)      0.9        1.5       0.8       (2.9)      0.9         0.3        0.3
Sub Total                           14.0       5.0       5.5        5.2       4.0        8.9      10.5       9.8        7.1        9.9        9.3         9.3              ' t
Othr Applications                   o.6        0.6       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0             , 
Cumulative Resoerv Fund             4.0        9.0      14.5       19.7      23.7       32.6      43.1       52.9      60.0       69.9       79.2        88.4            00 1J



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE VLA'S
PLB Training Facilities
1.        The availability of trained and motivated manpower is critical
to the success of the project. Graduates in the various technical dis-
ciplines involved in the project are available, but these graduates require
further orientation and specific job related training to handle the respon-
sibilities envisaged. The creation of 500 new VLA's requires acceptance of
basic cooperative principles on the part of 50,000 farmers, 1,000 paid offi-
cers of the VLA's and the associated 65 to 75 extension staff of the Mini-
stries of Livestock and Agriculture. The management staff of the Punjab
Livestock Board (PLB) also needs to be strengthened. These overall training
needs would be achieved through both theoretical and practical training pro-
grams organized specifically for the project.
2.        The Milk Corporation would have overall responsibility for employ-
ing the VLA spearhead teams, for administering the PLB training center, for
supervising the efficient functioning of the VLA's and for coordinating the
Governments input into the AI, the Animal Health and the Extension Service
that the VLA's require. The operating costs for institutional development
would be met in the first four years by Government as a promotional invest-
ment. A discussion of the operations and cost of each component follows:
3.        The formation of VLA implementation teams represents the most
critical element of staff selection and training in the project. Respon-
sibility for the selection and training of the VLA implementation teams
would rest with the PLB although actual training would be largely carried
out by the Extension Department of the Agricultural University at a Board
Training Center to be established under the project (see para 11). The
training program of the implementation teams would focus on the principles
and practices of establishing VLA's, milk collection routes, and the key
constraints to increased farm income (an outline is provided in Appendix 1
of the main report). Technical aspects of crossbreeding, calf rearing, fodder
production, livestock feeding and efficient use of draft power would also be
covered. Refresher courses of one week duration would be held each six months
in order to evaluate the results obtained and to discuss the use of new or
modified techniques in strengthening VLA organization.
4.        Staff of the implementation teams would be graduates in a field
related to agriculture and in livestock development. Each team, consisting



ANNEX 8
Page 2
of about 3 members, would be selected to provide a wide and balanced dis-
ciplinary coverage. In the selection process PLB would pay particular atten-
tion to personality, capacity to work hard and an understanding of smallholder
village farmers.
5.        The implementation teams would promote the concept of VLA's amongst
the villages of the project area. Once the idea has been accepted in prin-
ciple by the majority of the farmers and village elders in a specific village
the teams would assist in the election of the VLA' management committee and
the selection of staff for the VLA secretariat. The candidates for the sec-
retariat would have to be generally acceptable to the VLA members, have a
reasonable level of literacy and a facility with arithmetic and bookkeeping;
their final appointment would be based on their successful participation in
a two months special training course. This training course would center on
the operational problems of running a successful VLA and cover basic record
keeping, milk testing, protective medicine and Al. The Punjab Artificial In-
semination Service would assist in this training and in the later technical
supervision of the AI work of the VLA staff.
6.        At the completion of their initial training, VLA staff would return
to their villages and the village VLA would be formally established and pro-
visionally registered under the Company Act. To assist during the start up
period, PLB, would provide special supervision and staff assistance for two
to three months to help the fledgling VLA's to commence operations.
7.        About 2 months after a VLA had commenced operations a one week
course would be organized at the training centre for the member of the VLA's
management committee. This course would focus on the objectives, potentials
and pitfalls open to a VLA with a view to formulating an annual plan of action
for each individual VLA. Training would be given in interpreting and applying
the VLA bylaws, the formulation of a program of operations and the role of the
VLA in the milk plant. Cooperative principles would also be discussed.
Extension
8.        Several organizations in the Punjab supply support services to
farmers. The Department of Agriculture works under the administrative control
of the Secretary to Government of the Punjab, Agriculture Department. It is
operated through two Directors General, one for Field/Extension and the other
for Research. The Agricultural Extension Service in Shekhupura consists of
one Extra Assistant Director, one Assistant Plant Protection Officer, one As-
sistant Statistical Officer, 17 Agricultural Assistants and 134 Field Assis-
tants.
9.        The extension wing of the Department of Agriculture is concerned
with the application in the field of research on improved varieties of cereals,
vegetables and oil seed crops, use of fertilizers and pesticides through prac-
tical demonstrations, multiplication of improved seeds and education of farmers
through personal contact, audio/visual aids and publication/distribution of
leaflets, pamphlets, bulletins, etc.



ANNEX 8
Page  3
10.       Livestock Extension under the Ministry of Livestock Development
is responsible for providing disease cover against major diseases and also
treatment to individual sick animals. A further duty is the training of
farmers in methods of animal husbandry, health and production. In the
Punjab the Extension service has 381 veterinary hospitals andd 2,525 other
dispensaries or centers. Diagnostic laboratories provide a back-up service.
Staff is recruited from graduates of the Agricultural University and colleges
and from non-graduates of the Agricultural University and colleges and from
non-graduates trained at the same institutions. In the project area there
are 40 veterinary assistant surgeons, 110 stock assistants and 32 other
staff based at 22 veterinary hospitals, 10 dispensaries and 85 veterinary
centers. The project would liaise with the Extension Service in order to
assure full cooperation in animal health/husbandry measures in the Shekhupura
district.
i1.       The Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP) was set up by
Government in 1972 with the philosophy that all aspects of the rural situation
are interdependent. One of the aims of IRDP is to bring together government,
semi-government, commercial and peoples' organization for joint action in an
integrated way. A further aim is the bringing together of all programs
directed to rural economic or social improvement. For these purposes and
others--including rural problem solving--it is planned to establish up to 400
"Markaz" (centers) within the next few years. Thirty-eight are already opera-
tional. The program has two Markaz: at Mananwala and Morkhunda in Shekhupura
district. Each Markaz has one cooperative inspector and from 4-10 sub-
inspectors. It is the policy of the Government to build up the IRDP to cover
the whole district (and all districts of the Punjab). At the end of 1976
there should be four Mlarkaz (covering 20% of the district area) followed by
a further four in 1977 and an accelerated build-up to full coverage by 1980.
Where MIarkaz are operating effectively then the basis for field contact
should exist in the various associations created within the Markaz frame-
work.
12.       In the cooperative field, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies,
Lahore has one assistant registrar and seven inspectors in the district
and about 700 functioning societies with paid full-time or part-time secret-
aries (rather less than 600 in the rural areas).
13.       Wide coverage is reported for the Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation's
radio transmissions to farmers. These occur twice daily with a total time
of 50 minutes per day. The Lahore transmitter is 100 KW, medium wave, with
a range of 60-70 miles. Up to 80% of people in the rural areas are reputed
to listen to the agricultural programs and 63% own radios. Livestock and
agricultural specialists give regular talks over the air and these speakers
are drawn from universities, research institutions and government depart-
ments. There is, however, no coordinated presentation of educative material
relating to livestock production in a phased, or priority, learning program
and field research has not identified the actual learning success rate in
regard to specific teaching aims.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
14.       Existing agricultural and livestock extension systems are directed
primarily toward pest control in crops and the treatment of sick animals,
but not toward promoting new farming practices nor to integrating crop and
livestock production. Under the project extension services would be strength-
ened and the experience gained in the Shekhupura District would be used for
an eventual re-organization of agricultural and livestock extension services
throughout the Punjab. Responsibility for these services presently with the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock Development would not
be affected. To assure that adequate extension services will be provided,
the Ministries concerned will actively cooperate in the project and will be
represented on the project steering committee. Selected Village Extension
Workers (VEW) would be freed from routine administrative duties and assigned
to specific VLA's; once assigned the Ministries would avoid transferring
selected and specially trained extension staff to other locations and duties;
suitable assurances would be obtained on this point during negotiations.
15.       Training of the selected extension officers would be carried out
under the supervision of PLB at the Board Training Center. PLB, through its
manager for institutional development, would also participate in the selection
of VLA extension workers. Training of selected VEW's would consist of an
initial one week course of familiarize VEW's with the new concept of exten-
sion, with methods of farm communication and with developing contact to key
farmers. Subsequently VEW's would attend once fortnightly a one day in-
service training course at the Board Training Center or at a selected VLA.
In these courses, the one or two key seasonal topics particularly important
to an integrated crop and livestock farming pattern in the coming two weeks,
would be discussed and demonstrated. The VEW himself would have to practice
the job at hand and would then throughout the following two week period concen-
trate on the dissemination of information on the selected and specific topics
of high seasonal impact.
16.       The VEW would concentrate his extension effort on about 10 pro-
gressive farmers selected by each VLA. Each VEW would be responsible for a
maximum of 8 VLA's and 60 progressive farmers who would be expected to par-
ticipate actively in the program by providing key demonstration activities
to each VLA member. Each VEW would visit each VLA for one full day during
each two week period.
17.       The total number of VEW required would, at full development, be
around 65. Each group of eight VEW's would be under the supervision of one
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), a graduate in agriculture with several
years of experience in agricultural extension. The AEO's would also receive
special training of two weeks at the Board Training Centre as well as monthly
in service training sessions. The AEO's would be primarily responsible for
the regular in service training of the VEW's. Assurances would be sought
that the eight to ten AEO's required would be relieved from all other duties
and not subject to unnecessary transfers. The AEO's would report through
their departments to the PLB. To facilitate their work AEO's would be
provided with credit to purchase motorcycles, VEW's would be provided with
credit to purchase bicycles.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Specialist Staff of the PLB
18.       Training programs for the Board's engineers and plant managers would
be formulated and provided by the PLB Dairy Processing and Meat Processing
consultants. Terms of reference for these consultants are given in Appendix
3 of main report.
19.       A total of 12 overseas fellowships of 26 man months in milk and
meat processing and farm management would be arranged by PLB for their key
staff and for senior AEO's.
20.       The training load in the initial year of operations amounts to
about 800 man weeks of training and steadily rises throughout the project to
peak in year 4 at about 1600 man weeks. Provision of teaching and dormitory
space for 20 students at a time is required at the initiation of the project
with a duplication of this facility in year two. Dormitory, kitchen and
teaching accomodation would be extremely simple in design and based on soil-
cement blocks. Total costs for this project subcomponent, including sub-
sistence costs of students are estimated at Rs 7.0 M.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
EXTENSION
The Background to Agricultural and Livestock Extension Systems
1.        a.   Agricultural Extension:  The seasonal uniformity of events
in crop production, e.g., selection of appropriate crop varieties, plant
population density, optimal sowing date, irrigation requirements, desirable
fertilizer usage and the timing of pest control and harvest methods, enable
relatively unskilled agricultural extension workers to provide farmers with
seasonally-programmed information briefs of immediate importance and impact,
provided the extension worker is subject to a carefully planned program of
frequent short-term training, usually one day each two weeks--which is then
communicated to key farmers in a regular routine of farm visits (para 3).
2.        b.   Livestock Extension:  In the case of livestock extension,
the events on which the farmer seeks advice (e.g., heat, pregnancy, calving,
care of calf, feeding, lactation) do not exhibit such strong seasonal pat-
terns, and seasonal messages of high impact are less important. The bene-
fits from advice on nutrition, cross-breeding and preventative vaccination
are also long-range. High impact points that establish the credibility
of a livestock extension worker are fewer than with crops.
Method of Operation
3.        The farm visits of the extension worker are best based on a fixed
two weekly routine covering eight days, with the same farmers visited each
fortnight. Training is also fixed on a fortnightly routine, thus the ex-
tension worker (VEW) obtains the next fortnightly package of information
to pass it on to his client farmers. In this way, the VEW can cover the
needs of 8-10 "contact" farmers who, in turn, advise and demonstrate to a
further 10-20 families each.
4.        Training of the VEWs is carried out by Subject Matter Specialists
(SMIS) who devote their time equally to training, collecting feedback from
the VEWs and preparing the seasonal teaching and demonstration material
for conveyance by the VEWs. Only two or so high impact topics are dealt
with in one fortnight and selected to cover the immediate and most import-
ant actions by farmers at that point of time. Farming problems are fed
back in each fortnightly training session for solution by the SMSs and for
referral to the adaptive research units.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        The VEW would discuss and, if appropriate, demonstrate the topical
matters of crop and livestock production for the visit, which had already
been defined in his own training program, then attend to these same problems
on other farmers' land upon request. Between his visits, follow-up would
be made by the contact farmers. The VEW would spend eight days each fort-
night visiting farmer groups, one day at the end of the period on briefing
and training and the rest of his time on ad hoc visits in response to special
problems, as well as planning and updating his records.
Extension and the VLA
6.        An Extension Officer (EO) would be in charge of a milk route of
10-15 VLAs. He would be assisted by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) whose
discipline and number depend on the area as well as the crop and livestock
problems that may be faced. The EOs and SMSs would be agricultural graduates
with general or specialized experience commensurate with the number of line
staff that he would have to control. The EO would report to a Deputy Director
of Extension (DDE) who would be in charge of about eight extension milk routes.
7.        The EO would spend eight days every fortnight with his VEWs, so
arranging the days of his visits that he sees his entire area in sequence.
He would participate in the training sessions; accompany, upon request, the
VEW on his special visits; and take charge of demonstration farms and farmers'
days held on them. He would also maintain contact with the SMSs and, as need
arises, request their presence during field trips.
Basic Requirements of a Crop vs. Livestock Extension System
8.        The advantages of the agricultural system outlined in para. 3 are:
(a) complete control. Everyone should know where they should be
at any point of time and what they should be doing and saying;
(b) the impact is cumulative;
(c) the necessary feedback can take place and involve research
with the farmer.
9.         Some essentials for success are:
(a) 100% of extension staff's time must be devoted to the program;
(b) the Subject Matter Specialists or Production Agronomists must
be highly capable and efficient, as their fortnightly package
of teaching is the key to impact on the farmers;
(c)  suitable transportation for staff.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
10.       The basic difference between such an-agricultural system and a
livestock situation is important in the design and operation of joint crop
and livestock extension programs, thus:
(a) at any one time a livestock extension worker is likely
to be asked for advice on all aspects of livestock pro-
duction, although special emphasis can be laid on one
seasonally appropriate event;
(b) it is necessary for livestock extension workers to have a
broader technical background than is required for agricul-
ture staff; and
(c) refresher and seasonal training programs for livestock
extension need to cover a wider range of topics than for
agricultural extension. Training courses in livestock
therefore need to be of longer duration and quarterly,
rather than short duration and bi-weekly as is appropriate
for agricultural extension staff (Appendix).
Proposed Organization
11.       The PLB would operate a joint crop and livestock extension service
in the project area with selected staff seconded from the Ministry of Agri-
culture and the Ministry of Livestock Development. The proposed extension
organization would follow closely the preceding outline (para. 3 and Appendix).
12.       A VLA implementation team would establish the organization of
village-level project activities. Working along specific milk routes, the
team would establish a series of VLAs each in direct contact with a Village
Extension Worker (VEW).
13.       An integral part of the operating procedure would be to ensure
farmer participation and interest through the establishment of advisory
and consultative committees. In each project area, there would be a Project
Extension Committee of contact farmers that would meet twice a year with the
DDE to discuss past results and advise on the extension and demonstration
work planned for the coming season.
Staff Training
14.       The University of Lyallpur would organize periodic intensive courses
for extension officers above the VEW level on specific subjects as well as on
extension methods and techniques. The University has facilities for its par-
ticipants; classrooms, teaching aids and a professional staff. Additional
dormitory space is envisaged under the project to meet the needs of the above
programs. Yearly refresher courses would also be organized for SMSs in which
other selected staff would also participate. The courses would be run as work
shops in which opportunities would be given to relate, exchange and analyze
past field experiences. The generalist field staff would attend one day



ANNEX 9
Page 4
fortnightly training sessions at the PLB training center in addition to an
annual course on extension methods, the principies and practice of supervision
and on general management training and development matters.
15.       The VEW training in livestock extension would consist of a 6-day
workshop-type training program before each season to review past achievements
and difficulties and plan the next season's work.
16.       Experience shows that VEWs clearly lose motivation when they have
reached the top of their salary scale and see no avenues for promotion.
Therefore, VEWs whose technical knowledge is adequate would participate
in courses held at the Lyallpur University and if they give evidence of
having absorbed and being able to apply the course material, would become
eligible for promotion to EO and eventually, higher grades.
17.       The syllabus for all courses in which project extension staff par-
ticipate would be prepared jointly by the project SMSs and the University's
staff.
Details of VEW Livestock Responsibilities
18.       The VEW would tackle his livestock extension duties in two ways:
(a) with a group approach; and (b) individual farmer contact.
(a)  Group approach    - contacting farmers in groups to explain
artificial insemination, cattlefeeding,
cross-breeding, management, fodder
production and the economics of milk
production;
inviting EOs and SMSs to attend VLA
meetings.
(b)  Individual Level  - contacting individuals on day of the VEW's
visit to the VLA to encourage use of AI,
first aid, veterinary services, etc.
- supervise demonstrations on two contact
farms of integrated crop and animal hus-
bandry, cross-breeding, calf management,
fodder production, etc.
19.       In the establishment of the livestock extension program certain
priority management practices have to be disseminated before expanding to
the general management effort. Thus, the VEW would concentrate on these
immediate impact points, whilst following a deliberate longer-term effort
on the secondary livestock problems.  An example of these immediate and
long-term impact points are detailed below.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(a)  Immediate         - cattle feeding (balanced feed and green
fodder, economics of traditional vs. balanced
feeding);
- sm=mer management of buffaloes and effect on
milk production;
- animal health control - especially emergency
facilities available.
(b)  Longer Term       - demonstration farms with cross-breds and fodder
production showing intensive dairy vs. mixed
farming. Layout of demonstration farms in
consultation with SMS;
- fodder production;
- cross-breeding and increase in milk production
including benefits of AI;
- animal health control, first aid and routine
veterinary work;
- rearing of calves and effect on early maturity.



ANNEX 9
Appendix
PAKISTAN
Livestock Project
a/
Extension Organogram
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development
Director PLB
Deputy Director of Extension (DDE) - one per 8 milk routes
District EO Plus Subject Matter Specialists
+                   ~~~~~~b/
Route Level Training of VEWs (one day per fortnight)
VEW Village Visits (8 days; 8-10 contact farms; 1-2,000 total farmers)
Contact Farmer Covers 10-20 Other Farmers
Net Coverage of VEW is 100-200 Farmers/Day for 8 Days
a/ This organogram outlines the general extension effort.
b/ Quarterly, 6-day training would also be undergone in general aspects of
livestock production.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
MILK MARKETING AND PROCESSING
A. Present Situation
Milk Producers
1.        Although dairying in Punjab, and in the project area, is largely
a subsidiary activity to crop farming, it provides the only regular source
of cash income to many farmers, particularly small farmers whose crops are
used for subsistence purposes. Over 80% of the cows and buffalo are kept
in villages. The average herd size is 1.5 breedable head per family and
the majority of the dairy animals are buffaloes. Milk producers are of
3 categories: (a) the landless, about 18% of the rural population, keeping
1 to 2 milking animals to supplement a wage income; (b) the mixed farmer
(cropping and livestock) whose main income is from the sale of crops sur-
plus to household needs, and from dairying as a sideline to utilize crop
by-products; (c) the urban milk producer with herds up to 20 head who pur-
chase all the feed and fodder required and who buy dairy animals at peak
production, selling them when dry.
Milk Marketing
2.        There is no organized market for the 210 M Kg of milk produced by
the 250,000 female buffaloes, and 60,000 cows, in the project area. Home con-
sumption is estimated at around 110 M kg (at a per capita rate of 110 litre/
year and a family size of six). The remaining marketable surplus of around
100 M kg shows a marked seasonal peak in the rabi season.
3.        Surplus milk in the more remote areas is processed into ghee (butter
oil) worth Rs 15 per kg and providing an equivalent milk value of Rs 0.75/1.
Along the main roads and particularly in the Ferozewala Tehsil, private trad-
ers and their agents collect surplus milk for transport to larger urban mar-
kets, primarily Lahore. There are also a few small private milk processing
units in and around the project area producing butter, cheese and heat treated
milk. Several other small milk plants are out of commission or were construc-
ted without being fully equipped. The reason for the failure of private milk
processing is poor management and lack of capital to establish a strong milk
collection service in the untapped milk pockets of the project area and other
districts.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        Milk collection for direct market supply in Lahore and Lyallpur,
and for processing in local milk plants, is the task of local collectors,
usually working on contract for larger traders. Milk is collected directly
from the farm and transported to assembly points. There are generally no
contracts between collector and farmer other than purely verbal understand-
ings, but collectors are frequently the main source of credit for milk pro-
duction. Transport to the assembly points is normally undertaken by bicycle
and rarely exceed 6 miles. Transport from the collection centres to pro-
cessing plants and cities is done by truck and train. Transport and col-
lection margins paid to the milk collector average Rs 0.05 per litre and
transport costs from the collector to urban centres approximate Rs 0.05 per
litre.
5.        An indication of the price structure on the milk market is:
Producer price                    Rs 0.90 to 1.10/kg
Collector to trader              Rs 0.95 to 1.15/kg
Trader to factory-agency         Rs 1.20 to 1.35/kg
Factory delivery                 Rs 1.50 to 1.60/kg
Consumer                         Rs 2.10 to 2.15/kg
Total margin                      Rs 1.05 to 1.20/kg
Excluded from this margin is the considerable profit achieved by the trade
through adulteration.  Addition of water, some 20 to 30% during consecutive
stages of milk marketing appears the norm.  Seasonal price variations do
not appear to reflect changes in marketable surpluses, which vary in the
ratio of 1:2 between the kharif and rabi season.
The Lahore Milk Market
6.        The estimated total quantity of milk consumed in Lahore is 200,000
kg/day, about 95 grams/caput/day; of this around three fifths are procured
in the districts around Lahore, and two fifths come from the large urban
dairy herd comprising some 50,000 milk buffaloes and a few cows. About 20%
of this volume is sold as heat treated milk packed in plastic pouches of
which 50% is produced by the Lahore Milk Plant; the balance by smaller
private units. Consumption of milk products, butter, cheese, ice cream
is very small, probably not exceeding 50,000 kg whole milk equivalent a
day.
7.        In-city-milk traders number about 2,000 of which 340 are licensed.
These licensed dealers have to pay the following annual fees:
Municipal corporation tax for suppliers             Rs 3.-
Municipal corporation tax for retailers             Rs 2.--
Pure Food Act Fee                                   Rs 10.-
Marketing services provided by the city retailers are minimal.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
The Lahore Milk Plant
8.        Construction of the Lahore Milk Plant commenced in 1967 with finan-
cial assistance by UNICEF and technical advice from FAQ. Milk processing
operations started in 1970. The plant, designed to produce pasteurized milk,
butter, ghee and yoghurt, was for the first 5 years of its operation to
receive skim milk powder and butter oil from the World Food Program to
facilitate milk flow while the milk collection network was to be built
up. Because of inadequate field organization, progress in securing adequate
supplies of raw milk has been slow and WFP support is to be continued until
the end of 1977. Daily milk receipts, now about 11,000 1/day, provide about
one half of the daily milk sales of 25,000 1 of milk and yoghurt. The rest
of the daily output is provided by recombining WFP supplied skim milk powder
and butter oil.
9.        The plant obtains raw milk primarily from the Sahiwal District
southwest of Lahore. In that district it operates one large and four smaller
collective centers. Initial milk procurement is carried out by four contrac-
tors who are paid Rs 48/maund (Rs 1.24/kg) for milk with 6%, butterfat (BF)
with premia and discounts for variations in the B.F. content.
10.       The plant produces primarily pasteurized milk standardized at 5%
BF for pasteurized raw milk, and 3.5% BF for recombined milk. Costing skim
milk powder and butter oil at their actual market value, average production
costs, including marketing costs, interest on investment and depreciation
are about Rs 1.75/liter of milk and yoghurt and Rs 12.50/kg for butter. Re-
tail prices average around Rs 1.70/kg for milk, 1.65/kg for yoghurt and Rs
14.5 for butter. The operational loss is compensated by the minimal cost of
the WFP supplies.
11.       Although the quality of milk sold through 17 plant owned booths
and the 200 private retailers is not satisfactory, the plant does not face
any marketing problems and could easily sell a multiple of its present out-
put if increased supplies of milk could be obtained. The buildings of the
plant are basically sound. The location of the plant in the southern indus-
trial suburbs of Lahore is advantageous in relation to the market outlets,
but the project area lies to the northwest of the city, thereby necessitating
milk transport through the city of the plant and the cooling of milk coming
from the less accessible areas of Shekhupura.
12.       Under the project, the Lahore Milk Plant would be transferred to
the PLB and formed into a Milk Corporation established under the Company Law
of the Punjab as a subsidiary of PLB and with equity capital ownership con-
ferred to Government, PLB and the VLA's. The Milk Corporation, like the
VLA's, would be a service organization providing the institutional frame-
work for milk collection, processing and marketing.
13.       The fluid milk produced by the VLA's, plus milk delivered directly
to the Lahore plant by non VLA sources, is expected to reach 80,000 liters in



ANNEX 10
Page 4
year 4 and 100,000 liters in year 5. As milk production in the Punjab has a
marked seasonal variation, plant capacity would be expanded to 120,000 1/day
in 2 shifts. The successive expansion of the milk plant has been planned to
minimize investment and improve the cash flow (Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4). The
main processing areas of the plant would be enclosed to avoid access of in-
sects and birds. The floor would be repaired where necessary and made smooth
and acid resistant and pitched with adequate drainage in enclosed pipes. Pro-
cessing a 50% increase in capacity. Waste water treatment in the form of ac-
tivated sludge circulation, would be designed to meet IDA guidelines for li-
quid affluent disposal.
14.       Additional dairy processing equipment is required for receiving,
clarifying, chilling, pasteurizing, homogenizing, standardizing and bottling
milk. Processing equipment would also be provided for butter, ghee, ice cream
and yoghurt, and for manufacturing cheese from surplus milk during the flush
season. The product mix shown in Table 2 has been used in estimating invest-
ment costs and projected operating results. The total project costs for this
component are estimated at Rs 56.9 M.
15.       Milk Processing would be the responsibility of a dairy plant general
manager reporting to the PLB General Manager. The plant general manager would
be assisted by three divisional managers in milk processing; milk marketing and
in administration. For the initial start up period of 3 years the plant gener-
al manager would be recruited internationally, the divisional managers would be
recruited locally. Early appointment would permit a timely start on design
studies by consultants and the recruitment and training of staff. Proposals
would be sought for a package of services from a firm of dairy consultants to
assist the plant management as follows:
(a) preparation of complete engineering specifications and
tender documents, for new construction, renovations
and for new equipment within the framework of two con-
tracts. The specifications and documents for these
contracts would be subject to approval by IDA. The
first would be a civil works contract, the second
would require a single contractor to expand the plant
on a turn-key basis;
(b) analysis of the contract received and recommendation
to Plant Management on the most appropriate proposal,
including legal and technical advice on the contractual
arrangements;
(c) supervising the construction of the plant to assure the
contractor's fulfillment of specifications, witnessing
start-up and trial runs;
16.       The equity capital to enable the Corporation to borrow for invest-
ments in the dairy plant would come initially almost totally from Government



ANNEX 10
Page 5
via PLB, except for funds resulting from the initial and nominal share pur-
chases required from each VLA. Operating surpluses are expected from year
one as a functional plant would be taken over. Any unforeseen operating
deficits would be financed by equity capital subscriptions by Government
to be redeemed at par in equal installments in subsequent years.
17.       Articles of Association of the Milk Corporation (Appendix 1) would
require that 25% of the net income in each year be automatically transferred
to a Reserve Fund and up to 80% of the balance to be returned to VLA's as a
patronage bonus. Income tax would be assessed on all profits. Expected pur-
chases by VLA's of PLB equity holdings in the Corporation are shown in Ta-
ble 1. By year nine it is expected that the VLA's would have a 75% interest
in the Corporation. A key requirement of the by-laws governing the Corporation
operations would provide for the constitution of an 11 member board of direc-
tors on which VLA representation steadily increases as VLA equity participation
is increased.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
PAKISTAN      -
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1/
Milk Corporation By-Laws Highlights
1.        Objectives:  Promote village level dairy development through improved
animal husbandry, supported by an integrated package of services for affiliated
VLA's and their members; and provide reliable milk marketing channels.
2.        Membership:  VLA's in good standing and Government, subscribing to
at least one share; limited liability; non-Government member's holding may not
exceed one-fifth of total paid-up share capital.
3.        Membership Meetings:  Each shareholder entitled one delgate; one
member one vote; majority rule; supreme authority vested in membership meet
ings reviews operations, plans, budgets, expenses, audits, loans, management
performance and all corporation activities; corporation directors selected
to assure representation of farmers and interested agencies.
4.        Management:  Ultimate authority vested in membership meeting, as
delegated to a 11 member board of directors. Directors appoint and fix re-
muneration of General Manager and divisional managers.  General Manager re-
sponsible to Board for all operations as Chief Executive Officer. Directors
have one vote each, majority rule.
5.        Funding:  Share capital subscriptions, deposits, loans, grants, do-
nations, subsidies; share transactions at par value only (Rs 100); loan and
deposit liabilities not to exceed ten times the net worth 2/ of the Corpora-
tion.
6.        Distribution of Earnings:  25% of net profit allocated to reserve
fund; 2% contribution to the Cooperative Education fund; maximum dividend 9%
of paid-up share capital; and maximum 80% of the balance as bonuses to mem-
bers and staff, credits to funds and other reserves as approved by member-
ship changes in distribution of earnings subject to approval of Registrar of
Companies.
7.        By-Law Changes:  Approval of two-thirds vote of general meeting;
with approval of Registrar of Companies.
1/   Subject to the requirements of the Companies Act.
2/   Paid-up sare capital plus reserves, less accumulated losses.



Annex 10
Table 1
PM(ISTAW
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK IEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: DairY Pla,it
Inve.ttent Projections -
Capacity             Cost per Unit        --- Years ---               foreign Exchange
or Total Units             USS '000            1       2      Total       %        USS'OOO
Total Plant CaPaCitY-/                                           120,000 lts/2 shifts
stent Items 2/                                                 R                                                    IThousands ---
wivil Works                                                                                        2
Plant yards, infrastructure                                        1,000 m2                   20/m             200      --       200       --
Processing bldg., modifications and improvements                   1,000 m2                   401.2            400      _       400        __
'oolers, expansion and improvements, cheese cellar                   400  2                  200/un2           400    400       800        20
2ffice, lab., asenities, modifications and improvements              500 m21/2                                  50      --        50       10
;&rage, Store, engineroom, aux. bldgs, modification & impre-   400 m 2/30m2                                    120      --       120       10
'hilling center bldgs. and sites                              nt6z 100 m2                    120/m3            230    490       720        10
lewage treatment                                                 2 u3/day/tou/milk           500/Mr /day       330 , 670    1.000          20
.ub-total                                                                                                    1,730  1,560    3,290         14           46
ltilitLes
fater well, pump, piping, storage tank,
chlorinator                                                     1 x 20 m3/hr             1,600 m3(hr         130    190      .320         50
lover sub-station, transformer, switchgrear,                     2 x 100 KVA                 130/IVA           100    160        260       60
controls
lockag  steam generator, fueltank, water treatment, aux.  1 x 1,000 kg/hr                 25,000/ton/hr.       100    150       250        80 (207)4/
tafrigerating equipment and aux.                                  1 x 75 tons              1,200/ton           360    540       900        80 (207)
larvice lines                         '                               10%                              --              170      170        40
!rating, freight, insurance                                           157                     --                __    280        280       40 (20%)
'natallation                                                          15%                     --                --    330       330        20
sub-total                                                                                                      690  1,820    2,510         59         T4g
4achinery and Equipment
telocation of existing processing equipment                           --                  20,000               100    100       200        --
'billing center equip. including can washer, water well  6 x 20,000 Its/es.               50,000             1,500  1,500    3,000         60 (20%)
lulk milk receiving equipment                                     60,000 Its/shift        60,000               240    360       600        90 (20%)
' teurizing, homogenizing, chilling, CIP                           8,000 lts/hr          160,000               640    960    1,600         90 (20%)
'ottle washing, filling and capping line                      2 a 6,000 BPH              12,oOO                480    720    1.,200        90 (207)
tUlk silds and tanks,                                            100,000 Its             100,000               400    600    1,000         80 (20%)
,utter making and packaging equipment                                130 kg/batch         60,000               240    360       600        90 (20%)
hesre vats, presses, tanks                                        20,000 Its/day          60,000               240    360       600        80 (207)
co cream and yochurt making equipment                                 --                 70,000                280    420       700        90 (20%)
,.S. piping and fittings                                               5%                 __                   130    190       320        90 (20%)
iffice, lab, equipment, spares, tools                                 --                  20,000                80    120       200        80 (207)
rating, freight, insurance                                           15%                 __  __                --  1,470    1,470          70 (20%)
.nstallation                                                          20%                  _  --                --  2  6      2.260        30
:ub-total                                                                                                    4,330  9,420   13,750         69         949
ransoortation Equipment 2'                                                                                                             4/
'ickup trucks                                                         10                   6,900/es            340    350       690(207)  90 (50%)
.nsulated tank-trucks                                         3 xiO,OOO Lts./ea.         49,500/ea             500    990    1,490(207)  90 (50%)
2ilk cans                                                     1,500 x 40 Lts.                 39/ea            200    390       590       -_
;ub-total                                                                                                    1,040  1,730    2,770         71         197
:naineering and Overhead -
rgsmizational expenses                                                 27                    --                390     --       390        --
~onsultant (specs, bids, supervision)                                  5%                     --               490    490       980        80
ontractor (design, implementation)                                     8%                     --               780    780    1560          80_
;ub-total                                                                                                    1,660  1,270    2,930         71         208
!echnical and Management Services                             1 Dairy plant mgr.         60,000/yr x 3 yrs. 590  1.190    1.780            80         142
Total Investment w/o Contingencies                                                                        10,040 16,990   27,030         62       1,690
:orking Capital -/                                            4 weeks turn-over               --             1,720      --    1,720        --          --
hysical Contfngencies                                                                                         390     730    1,120         60          67
Sub total                                                                                                12,150 17,720   29,810         59       1,757
me* and Import Duties                                                                                       1,117  2,057    3,174         --           --
Total Investment                                                                                         13,267 19,777   33,044         53       1,757
he existing plant in Lahore vould be upgraded and its capacity expanded from the present 25,000 Its/day to 120,000 lts/day for a product mix
omprising pasteurized milk, butter, ghee, cheese, yoghurt and ice-cream.
fter year 3, over 501 of trucking for milk colleetton and delivery would be contracted.
xcluding item 4.
roa Table 2



PAKISTAN
PUNUA8 LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PRWECT
Model: Dairy Plant
Income and Operating Cost Proiections
Yield or Number of                                             -            years -----------------------
Units at Full Development   Cost or Price per Unit            1         2        3         4         5-20
1/
Volume
Village livestock associations Leplemented 2                   350                          --                    40       70       110        130          __
Average daily milk collection, thousand lts./          Seasonality 1:2                      --                    25       40        60         80         100
ToL-l raw milk processed, million Its.                 365 days/year                                               9.1     14.6      21.9       29.2        36.5
Income                                                                                                            -------------- Re  Milliona ---------------
Paeteurized milk sold (~ lt bottles)                   80% (3% butter fat)        Rs      2.-  /It. at booth    18.2       29.2      35.0      46.7        58.4
Butter sold                                            10 kg/l,000 lt I           Re      16.-  /kg at plant       1.5       2.3      3.5       4.6          5.8
Cheese sold 4/                                         157.- 10 kg/100 lt         Re    25.-  /kg at plant        --       --         8.2      11.0         13.7
Ice cream, yoghurt sold (0.2 kg cups)                   51 -  1 kg/lt             Re       5.-  /kg at plant      --5.5                         7.3          9.1
Total sales                                                                                                       19.7     31.5      52.2      69.6         87.0
Operating Cost
Direct Costs
Raw milk purchases 5/                                 ( 4Z butterfat              Rs       1.30/lt. at VLA        11.8     19.0      28.5      38.0         47.5
C97. SNIP
Direct labor 61            .            ( ~~~~~skilled      70 persons   Re   600/ month
Direct labor 61                                         uaskilled . 70 persona    R      350/ month                0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8         .0.8
( 80 kg F.O./1,000 It       Rs       0.6/kg
Fuel, power                                           ( 80 KwH/I,O00 lt           Re      0.3/KWH                  0.7       1.1      1.6       2.1          2.6
Lubricants, water treatment                                   --                  Rs      10/1,000 It              0.1      0.1       0.2       0.3          0.4
General materials                                             --                  Re      20/1,000 It              0.2      0.3       0.4       0.6          0.7
Bottles and packaging materials                       ( BotleCs Z. breakage       Re       1.0/bottle              1.4       2.3      4.8       6.4          8.0
(Cups   :6/lt.             Rs       0.3/cup
Milk collection expenses                              Radiua: 200 KM             Re       0.1/lt.                 0.9       1.5      2.2       2.9          3.7
Milk retailing expenses 7/                             Radius:  50 KM             Rs       0.2/It.                 1.8       3.0      4.4       5.8          7.3
Taxes
Sub-total                                                                                                         17.7     28.1      42.9      56.9         71.0
Overhiead Costs
Maintenance 8/                                          10 persons                Re    600/month                 0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1           0.1
Administration expenses                                 --                        USS  20,000/month               2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4           2.4
Technical, administrative, supervisory personnel 6/  22  ersons                   R   1,200/month                 0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3           0.3
Managemeut                                               3 pereona                Re  3,000/month                 0.1       0,1      0.1       0.1           0.1
Sub-total                                                                                                         2.9      2.9       2.9       2.9           2.9        ' 
Total Operating Cost                              ,   175 persons                         --                     20.6     31.0      45.8      59.8          73.9        0 
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                            (0.9)      0.5      6.4       9.8          13.1        X  X
li  The existing plant would be expanded during years 1-2 however, vould be processing project milk since year 1.  The voluma includes an average                            C: 
20,000 Its/day currently processed by the plant.
2/  Village livestock aasociations would be implemented in the district of Sheikhupura from where milk would be transported in cans to chilling centers
and then on to the plant in road tankers.
3/ Includes purchases of milk from non-members.
4/ Cheese would mostly be made from surplua milk during the flush season.
5/ Butterfat content would drop gradually as milk from prosabreds would become predominant, price represents an average.
6/ To avoid layofis and subsequent rehiring of staff, all personnel required at full development would be kept on the payroll.
7/ Milk would be retailed mostly through grocery stores and existing booths.
8/ Includes maintenance materials.
9/ Working capital year 13 Re 1.7 M assuming an average turnover of four weeks.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Dairy Plant
Cash. Flow Projections
(Rs Millions)
-Y------------------------------------------------- --  years -- ---- ---- ---- ---
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Income
Borrower's equi27 1'           2.6   4.2  --    --    ---    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --               --    --    --
Long term loan _              10.2  16.6  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Short term loan 3/           -_-    --    _      _     _      _     _     _      _     _     _      __
Total sales 4/                19.7  31.5  52.2  69.6  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0
Last year's cash balsnes    --       0.8   0.4   3.1   3.0   3.9   4.6   1.1   2.0   9.2   6.5   2.7   2.4   4.6   6.9   9.1  12.4   3.8   0.8   2.0
T2tal Cash Inflow             32.5  53.1  52.6  72.7  90.0  90.9  91.6  88.1 89.0  96.2  93.5  8.7  89.4  91.6  93.9  96.1  99.4  9.8  87.8  89.0
Expenditures
5/                                                                                                                      2.3
Investments- Fixed assets   11.1  20.8  --    --    --    -_         4.4  --    --    10.0  10.0   4.4  --    --    --    --         4.4   9.3  --    --
Working captl. 1.7 - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- __
Operating Costr               18.9  31.0  45.8  59.8  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9
Debt Service:
Long term loan principal   --    --    --       4.5   4.9   5.3   5.8   6.3          --    --    --    --    --    --    --             -  --        --
Long term loan interest    --      0.9   2.3   2.3   1.9   1.5   1.0   0.5  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Short term loan principal  --     --    --    - -    --    _      _     __    __    __    __    _       _     _      _     __    __    __    __    __
Short term loan interest   --    --    _       _     _      _     __    _      _     __    _      _     __    __    _      _      _     _      __
Income Tax -                  --    --    --      1.1   2.9   3.1   3.4   3.6   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8
Dividends diatributed         --    --      1.4   2.0   2.5   2.5   2.0   1.8   2.0   2.0   3.0   5.2   7.0   7.0   7.0   6.0   4.0   3.0   8.0   9.0
Total Cash outflow            31.7  52.7  49.5  69.7  86.1  86.3  90.5  86.1  79.8  89.7  90.8  87.3  84.8  84.7  84.8  83.7  95.6  90.0  85.8  86.7            I X
Cash Balance at Year's End  0.8   0.4   3.1   3.0   3.9   4.6   1.1   2.0   9.2   6.5   2.7   2.4   4.6   6.9   9.1  12.4   3.8   0.8   2.0   2.3    0
1/  20% of total investment.
Z/  80. of total investment, 8k7, interest, 7 year including 2 years of grace.
3/ 12h% of interest.
4/ From Table 2
5/ From Table 1, existing plant facilities, not renovated under the project, would be replaced in years 10-11 at a total
value of about Rs 20 M, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years
7-12-17, including duties and excluding engineering
6/  50%, after interest charges and Rs  5.4 M depreciation charge including the existing facilities.



PAK!9 ' .  N
PUNIJAB 11  DSTO(LP. '_1 nPIEY" PROJECT
Mode l:  Diry PlUnt
Financial Rate of Return
(Re Miillion)
------- ------ ------- ------ ------- ------   ------   -------    years    ----------- ----- ---- ----   -----  ----  ----  -----  ----   ----
_      3      4       5      6      7      S       9      10      11       12     13     14      15     16     17       18      19      20    Totals
'Iot3[ Ala]e   -/      19.7     31.s  52.2  69.6   87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  62.0    87.0    87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0   87.0  87.0    87.0    87.0  87.0   1,565.0
,-. e-tr~;~, e   '/    12.8     20.8  --           --  -     --       4.   --      --     10.0    10.0      4.4   --    -        --      -      13.8     9.3    --      --         85.5
pe-rauin,; Costs-, 1E.,           1.0  45.J  59.8  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9    73.9    73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9   73.9  73.9    73.9    73.9   73.9   1,337.9
ino.-e :.x -/         --  --           --       1.1   2.9    3.1    3.4    3.6    3.9    3.8        3.9     3.8    3.9    3.8    3.9    3.8    3.9       3.8      3.9    3.8       60.3
Tue.tl Cost            U1.7      .S.8  45.6  60.9  76.8  77.0  81.7  77.5   77.8  87.7    87.8    82.1  77.8  77.7  77.8   77.7   91.6    87.0    77.8   77.7   1,483.7
_ t :,             (12.3)   (20.3)  6.4    8.7   10.2  10.0    5.3    9.5    9.2  (0.7)  (0.8)   4.9    9.2    i.3    9.2    9.3  (4.6)                  0     9.2    9.3       81.3
Financial Rate of Return 20.1X
', F:. ;;l, 2, . 
A'  Fr      2ln  1, uicstitug plar.t facilities replaced  in yedrs 10-11, project equipment in years 17-18, transportation equipment
m v.rs 1-12-11.                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H W
'.   Op,cL_ .,  t in ye,r 1 datS nct reflect working capital which is included as investment in year 1.                                                                                    a   m
5/  1:.... ?.nle re.¢                                                                                                                                                                          O



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PAKISTAN        -
LIVESTOCK SECTOR
TRAINING AND RESEARCH IN LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Present Situation
1.        Academic training in agriculture in the Punjab started in 1909 at
Lyallpur Agricultural College, which was accorded university status (LAU)
in November 1961. A team from Washington State University assisted the
university during the first critical years, providing 14 visiting professors
as well as overseas training grants for over 50 Pakistanis. The autonomy
conferred on LAU allowed focussing of curricula on agricultural education,
engineering, extension, animal production and veterinary science. Soon
after 1961 education facilities were extended to the PhD level. At this
time, the College of Animal Husbandry at Lahore was also affiliated to the
university.
2.        The Governor of Punjab Province is the head of the university as
its Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor, the principal academic and executive
officer, is assisted by various authorities and officers of the university.
The Syndicate of the university, with the Vice-Chancellor as its chairman,
is the principal authority which manages the affairs, funds, and properties
of the university.
3.        Originally LAU was intended to serve professional manpower re-
quirements in agriculture for all of then West Pakistan. However, since
the reorganization of the Government into four provinces, LAU has concent-
rated on meeting professional agricultural manpower requirements of the
Federal Government and Punjab Province.
4.        LAU consists of 37 departments with an enrollment of 3,500 students
(Table 1), LAU is equipped with a good staff to develop effective programs
in agriculture, 101 of 360 staff members holding PhDs (Table 2).
5.        In addition to degree and post-graduate courses, the university
offers six month to two year diploma courses in various areas including:
tractor operation, estate management, mechanical cultivation, agricultural
engineering, and cooperatives. Other shorter courses, 15 days to two months,
for the acquisition of skills and for rural development volunteers, are run
by the Farm Guide Movement for pre-release servicemen, school and college
boys, progressive farmers, cooperative farmers and managers, teachers and
Imans, and by the Farm Home Guide for school and college girls. By Septem-
ber, 1974, about 12,000 farm guides and farm home guides were trained and
over 21,000 persons have received training at the university through 54
non-formal courses now being offered. About 1,000 persons are enrolled in
these courses.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
6.        In the past, the major barrier encountered by agricultural grad-
uates has been the lack of job opportunities. The poorest position has been
for students with majors in agricultural education. The employment situation
as of November, 1975 is outlined in Table 3. The proposed IDA supported
Third Education Project also observes these signs of employment difficulties
for agricultural graduates. However, implementation of various development
schemes, including the livestock development project and a shortage of
teachers for the proposed expansion of agricultural education in middle and
high schools, should substantially improve the future employment situation.
Training in Animal Husbandry
7.        The first animal husbandry undergraduate degree option was ini-
tiated only in 1974/75. Prior to that time animal husbandry was a post
graduate research-oriented field of study. Until the introduction of a
separate Animal Husbandry BSc degree option, all related subjects were dealt
with by the DVM course. The result was that students taking these post-
graduate courses lacked a sound foundation and well rounded knowledge of the
various aspects of animal husbandry.
8.        The maximum intake in animal husbandry is restricted to 50 due to a
constraint of laboratory facilities. The first year intake in 1975 was 45
from a total of 75 applicants, the total number of students enrolled in ani-
mal husbandry in the academic year 1974/75 was 121 of whom 98 were post grad-
uate students.
9.        The statutes regulating entry into the degree of BSc (Honors) in
Animal Husbandry note that the course work shall cover six years of study
after the Secondary School Certificate Examination of the Board of Inter-
mediate and Secondary Education, or an equivalent examination. The first
two years of the course shall be common until the Intermediate course of
the University. An outline of the classes offered, and instructional hours,
in Animal Husbandry for the final four years of the BSc (Honors) degree are
outlined in Appendix 1.
Past Bank Group Association
10.       The first Bank education project in Pakistan became effective in
1964. The principle objective of the project, was to improve agricultural
and technological manpower training in Pakistan by supporting LAU and ten
technical colleges. The project, which is to terminate in June 1976, pro-
vided LAU with funds for classroom, dormitory and laboratory construction,
consulting services and equipment, thereby expanding its capacity approxi-
mately four times. Serious delays in project implementation were encountered
particularly in procuring equipment and material, however, these problems
were finally overcome and the project led to substantial increases in the
quality and quantity of education at LAU permitting the university to suc-
cessfully meet manpower requirements of the Punjab Province, and of the
Federal Government.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
11.       A third Bank Group assisted education project 1/ for Pakistan, for
which a credit of US$22 M is proposed, is in the appraisal process. The pro-
ject is in two parts, basic education and agricultural education, which seek
to:
(a) increase the supply of qualified primary and middle school
teachers, particularly for girls' schools and for rural
areas;
(b) improve the quality and output of trained personnel for
agricultural and rural development; and
(c) guide future educational investments by studying important
problem areas.
Constraints
12.       The University will play a key role in the implementation of the
Livestock Development Project. Considerable numbers of staff at all levels
of professional proficiency will be required and, with the planned for ex-
pansion of livestock development after completion of this first project, this
demand is expected to continue. The primary manpower need will be for staff
with training in animal husbandry.
13.       The undergraduate course in animal husbandry at LAU has been charged-
with providing specific background in the livestock field. Unfortunately the
effectiveness of this course is greatly limited by lack of training material
and background specific to livestock conditions in the Punjab, most textbooks
and training material are based on US models, and the staff of the Animal
Husbandry Department encounters difficulties to properly interpret and adapt
them.
14.       Training in animal husbandry, as provided by LAU, is characterized
by too narrow a concentration on livestock matters. Under the conditions of
the Punjab livestock is an integral part of farming and the interrelation
between the two disciplines is generally overlooked perpetuating the concept
of separate crop and animal husbandry extension services.
15.       Training in all departments of the LAU is finally limited by equip-
ment, textbooks and transport. Under the previous IDA supported education
project, some provision for text books and library equipment has been made
but insufficient to overcome existing problems. No support has been received
by LAU for additional personal transport which severely limits university
staff carrying out field surveys or field trials.
1/   The second project was exclusively for engineering education.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
II. Research
16.       The institutions involved in livestock-related agricultural research
in the Punjab are:
(a) the Research Wing of the Department of Agriculture which
works under the Director General Research at LAU with
branches throughout the province. The main emphasis is
on the development of cereals, cotton and to a lesser
extent, oil seeds, vegetables and fodder. This wing also
prepares forecasts on the crop situation and undertakes
surveys and training/education of farmers on latest dev-
elopments and their applications;
(b) the Livestock and Dairy Development Department (LDD) which
works under a Secretary to the GOPa. Programs of livestock
production, health and research are the primary objectives.
Within this group is the Directorate, Livestock Farms. There
are eleven such farms in the Punjab (see map), including
livestock experimental stations at:
Bahadurnagar   -  cattle, sheep and poultry
Qadirabad       -  buffalo and sheep
Khairawala      -  goats and sheep
Kherimurat      -  cattle and sheep
Bhunikey        -  beef production
Rakh Ghulaman  -  buffalo, cattle and sheep;
(c) the Livestock Production Research Institute also at Bahadur-
nagar is concerned with the upgrading of sheep breeds, buf-
falo, and cross-breeding using local Sahiwal and imported
Swedish Red/White, Holstein Friesian and Jersey. It is in-
tended that the project staff would maintain close liaison
with these farms and institutes. The Directorate can assist
in training courses for project staff using farm and research
programs to provide essential practical experience. The
total area of the Bahadurnagar farm is 3,050 acres (2,675
cultivable), of which 1,070 acres is cultivated by tenant
farmers carrying out a rigid farming program organized by
the Directorate. Present herd size is 1,250. The total
staff number 250, including three veterinarians, 14 tech-
nical and 13 ministerial staff. The operation as it exists
is over-staffed primarily due to a government edict dis-
allowing the firing of original farm personnel at the time
of reorganization of the farm in 1963. The farm is to be
the site of the FAO World Buffalo Research Station;
(d) the research facilities in animal husbandry at LAU and
Lahore. When LAU was established, the Provincial Department



ANNEX 11
Page 5
of Agriculture decided to retain under its own jurisdiction,
the Agricultural Research Institute which had formerly been
an integral part of the College. This resulted in a loss of
valuable equipment and qualified personnel. Under PAK-50,
facilities have been expanded at LAU. The animal husbandry
research effort adheres strongly to the U.S. model and farming
situations. The result is a weakness in translation of re-
search results to the Punjab field situation; and
(e) the Nuclear Research Institute for Agriculture and Biology
at Lyallpur is involved primarily in aspects of crop pro-
duction, salinity, nitrogen fixation and plant genetics.
The interesting studies on saline tolerant species and va-
rieties has great potential influence on forage production
from saline areas (Annex 12).
17.       Weaknesses and Future Development:  A greater cooperation and inform-
ation transfer between the various institutes involved in applied research and
a more practical approach to in-the-field situations is an important require-
ment for future agricultural research work in the Punjab. The benefits to be
derived from the practical outlook of the Government livestock farms and the
theoretical approaches of the LAU Animal Husbandry Department and the Nuclear
Research Institute, when translated by an effective extension service would
provide the necessary stimulus for closer working relationships. Studies on
the role of livestock in the mixed farm economy should be strengthened; in-
creased forage production studies to overcome such production restrictions as
the few months of limited production from the rabi fodder crop (berseem);
strenghtening of the PLB and LDD research capacity in animal production
through use of tenant farmers as demonstration units.
III. Project Proposal
18.       Under the project manpower training and research in animal pro-
duction would be improved.
19.       Investment in manpower training would be provided at three levels:
(a) fellowships would be provided for teaching and research
staff to study overseas in animal production;
(b) training of undergraduates would be improved by
strengthening the Animal Husbandry Department at LAU,
through technical assistance and the provision of
teaching equipment; and
(c) training of VLA staff would be established by expansion
of existing, practically-oriented short courses at LAU.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
20.       In the first six months of the project, or sooner, a-consultant or
consultants in animal production education would carefully review current
teaching and training programs in the livestock sector and propose to LAU an
overall plan for livestock education. Subject to the findings of this con-
sultant, and to concurrence between GOPa and IDA on acceptance of his pro-
posals, the project would provide:
(a) short-term fellowships individually not exceeding 6 months
for teaching and research staff of LAU particularly the
Departments of Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science, Agri-
cultural Economics and Farm Management to the extent of
12 man years; provision of consultant staff to strengthen
teaching programs.
(b) teaching equipment, including laboratory apparatus photo-
copying equipment, books and periodicals for library pur-
poses; and
(c) civil works construction of dormitory facilities.
21.       Provision of funds for extended research effort on the Livestock
Directorate Research Farms. Emphasis to be placed on integrated systems of
livestock, forage and crop production in the mixed farming economy of the
Punjab.



Annex 11
Table 1
PAKISTAN
Livestock Project
Enrollment/Output at Llyalpur Agricultural University
Enrollment 1974/75                 Accumulated Output
Faculty
Diploma    Under-         Post-      First Degree   Post Craduate
Course    Graduates   Graduates    until 1974         until 1973
Agriculture                                             412       B.Sc. 2,190           675
B.Sc. 812
Agricultural Engineering                B.Sc. 70         70       B.Sc.   126           134
and Technology
Animal Husbandry                        B.Sc. 23         98             -               175
Veterinary Science                      D.V.M.438        77       D.V.M.  476           118
Ngricultural Economics                                  170                             168
& Rural Sociology
Sciences                                                138
Division of Education                   B.Sc. 89         35                 86           79
& Extension                    ____
Total                          300         2,174      1,000             2,878         1,349



Annex 11
Table 2
PAKISTAN
Livestock Project
Llyalpur Agricultural University Staff
Faculty/Department           Number of Regular Staff by Degree Held
May, 1975
Diploma   Bachelor's   MIaster's  Doctorate
Faculty of Agriculture                          1            64          42
Faculty of Agricultural              -          -            21          11
Economics & Rural Sociology
Faculty of Veterinary Science        -          4            23          11
Faculty of Animal Husbandry          -          -            14          13
Faculty of Agricultural              -          9            16          11
Engineering and Technology
Faculty of Sciences                  -          -            47           8
Division of Education and            -          -            17           4
Extension
College of Animal Husbandry,         -         19            24           1
Lahore
Total                                -         33           226         101



Annex 11
Table 3
PAKISTAN
Livestock Project.
Employment Position of M.Sc. Graduates
of the University of Agriculture, Lyallpur
as of November 1, 1975
No.    Joined                  Proceeded                Others
Year   Passed    PhD       Foreigners    Abroad       Employed   Unknown   Total
1971    171        5           3             -          142         21        171
1972    131        4           8             2           93         24        131
1973    191        4           4             4          137         42        191
1974    117        3           3             1           91         19        117
Employment Position of B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture
of the University of Agriculture, Lyallpur
as of November 1, 1975
No.    Joined                  Proceeded                Others
Year   Passed    M.Sc.   Foreigners    Abroad         Employed   Unknown   Total
1971    195       133          5                         18         39        195
1972    213       131          5                         43         34        2;3
1973    188       122          4                         33         29        188
1974    174       125          3                          6         40        174
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine
1971     19         4          -             7            8          -         19
1972     30         3          3             2           17          5         30
1973     30         -          -             -           29          1         30
1974     22         -          -                         20           2        22
B.Sc. Agricultural Engineering
1971     17         -          -             -           10           7        17
1972     29         -          2             8           17           2        29
1973     18         -          -             -           17           1        18
1974     13         -          -                           9         4         13



Annex 11
Appendix 1
Page 1
1st Year                                         3rd Year
Introductory Livestock                        Sheep & Coat Production
Management                                    Feeding of Livestock & Poultry
Principles of Animal Nutrition                Principles of Animal Breeding
Introductory Genetics                         Poultry Hygiene & Disease Prevention
Intro. to Poultry Science                     Physiology of Reproduction in Farm
A: Veterinary Anatomy                           Animals
B: Veterinary Physiology                      Technology of Meat & Dairy Products
Biochemistry                                  Farm Equipment, Structures &
Inland Fisheries and Game                       Processing
2nd Year                                      4th Year
Principles of Dairying                        Range Livestock and Beef Production
Nutritional Requirements of Farm              Feed Industry
Animals                                     Breeding Systems & Plans.
Genetics of Farm Animals                      Poultry Industry
Poultry Farm Management                       Intro. to Veterinary Medicine
Statistics for Animal Sciences                A: Marketing of Animals and Animal
A: Agricultural Economics                          Products
B: Rural Sociology                            B: Animal Science Literature
C: Fodder Crops                .              Agricultural Extension
D: Range Management
4 Years B.Sc.
2 Years Pre-      (Hons) A.H.
A.H. (Hours)       (Hours)        Total Hours
Weekly  Course  Weekly  Course  Weekly  Course_
Macro Subjects
1. Animal Husbandry           -      -        96    3,744      96    3,744    42.5
2. Veterinary Sciences        -      -        17       663     17       663      7.5
3. Basic Sciences,          58    2,262       21      819      79    3,081    34.9,
Social Sciences,
& Humanities
4. Agriculture and           18      702      16       624     34    1,326    15.1
Agri. Extension
Total                        76    2,964    150    5,850    226    8,814   100.0



Annex 11
Appendix 1
Page 2
Research Projects
Completed               Underway                Total
PhD                        10                     32                     42
M.Sc.                    181                      49                    230
Faculty                   43                      25.                    68
234                    106                    340



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PAKISTAN      -
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WASTELAND DEVELOPMENT
1.        As a result of increasing irrigation and inadequate drainage, the
watertable over most of the irrigated area of Pakistan is now within 10 ft
of the surface. In the Punjab the arable area severely affected by drainage
problems and salinity is estimated at 2.5 M ac, while another 7 to 8 M ac are
moderately or slightly affected.
2.        GOP have introduced a series of Salinity Control and Reclamation
Projects (SCARP's) in the larger and more compact areas affected by salinity
and waterlogging in order to try to ameliorate drainage and salinity problems.
Under this program the Water and Power Development Authority of Pakistan
(WAPDA) has installed several thousand tubewells for vertical drainage on
about 3 M ac.
3.        The tubewells are used to lower the water table, and in some cases,
to exploit the fresh groundwater resource for reclamation by leaching of
saline soils, as well as to supplement surface irrigation water. In many
areas, however, the groundwater is saline and land reclamation of salinized
soils in such areas using groundwater is not possible. In the project area
much saline land occurs in relatively small and dispersed patches, outside
of the SCARP reclamation areas. The total acreage of this dispersed salinized
land is significant and its rehabilitation could lead to important improve-
ments in food production and employment opportunities (Table 1).
4.        Several institutions in Pakistan are working on the problem, par-
ticularly the Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology in Lyallpur. The
Institute has examined the use of Diplachne fusca, a salt tolerant grass, as
a pioneer plant in saline land reclamation. This grass, a native of Australia
and East Africa provides good forage in its early growth stage. The main
beneficial effects of the grass is, however, in its impact upon the permeabil-
ity and biological activity of the soil. It also appears capable of fixing
atmospheric nitrogen. Experiments have shown that the growth of the grass
leads to large increases in the number of aerobic bacteria and cellulose
decomposers in saline soils. Soil pH and salt content are reduced as a result
of its growth.
5.        Following initial cropping with D. fusca a subsequent leguminous
crop, Sesbania aculeata, may be grown as a green manure crop, as its roots
are profusely nodulated and fix extensive amounts of atmospheric nitrogen.
Sesbania has a deeper root system that D. fusca and increases soil permeabil-
ity and leaching further. This crop, when ploughed under and allowed to



ANNEX 12
Page 2
decompose, greatly improves soil quality and, w-here water quality permits,
can then be followed by cereal grain crops (Figure 1).
6.        The Punjab  Livestock Board (PLB), with the help of the University
of Lyallpur, has started a number of field trails using the Diplache-Sesbania
crop sequence. PLB has plans in hand to expand this work considerably, par-
ticularly on state land affected by salinity. The estimated cash costs per
acre of a four year rehabilitation program is about Rs 4,600.



-   --  -  ,   L"   j  c:, C.
Extent of Saline/Allkaline Soils iitIrrigattd Area
Punjab               Sind              N.W.F.P.              Total
/                    (ac)(%)             (Ma L  ac)  )       (fi ac5     )        (1t ao)  (q)
IBRD Estimate-
Canal Corrnanded Area (CCA)
Severely Salinized               3       15          6        45           -      -           9        27
Slightly to Moderately                               2
Salinized                    3        15          2.6     20           -       -           5.6     17
Subtotal                     6        30          8.6     65           _       _         14.6    d44
Non-Saline                      13.7      70         4.6      35          _       _          18.3      56
Total CCA                    19.7    100         13.2    100                              32.9   .100
FAQ Estimate/'                       (Punjab)       (Sind/Baluchistan)       (N.W*F.P.)            (Total)
Saline and/or Alkaline
Soil Conditions
Severe                           3.2     15          2.5      30        0.03       2          5.53    19
Moderate                         7.1      34         4.5      54         0.07      5         11.67    38
Subtotal                     10.3     49          7.0     84         0.10       7         17.20    57
Non-Affected                    10.7      51         1.3      16         1.30     93         13.50    1X3
Total                        21.0    100          8.3    100         1.40,  100           30.70   10(
1/ IBRD Irrigation and Drainage Review Mission (Draft R3port, Dated September 27, 1970,, Pages 12-13.               H x
2/ FAQ, Land and Water Development Division, Perspective Study of Agricultural Develo 'ent for Pakistan,
Land and Water Dovelopment Use (Dated Januar;r 1975), Page 12.
Ref. 922-PAK Vol. I Ag. Sector Review.



Annex 12
Figure 1
PAKISTAN
Livestock Project
Plant Succession Reclamation of Saline Areas
Saline Areas
Year 1 Diplachne fusca (Kallargrass)
Year \ Sesbania aculeata (green manuring crop)
Rotavate and disc the soil
Year 3 Cash crop (wheat, rice, etc.)



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PAKISTAN        -
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
BANKING AND CREDIT SERVICES
A. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN PAKISTAN
1.        The major institutions concerned with agricultural credit in
Pakistan are the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), which is the central Bank;
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP); and Pakistan's thirteen
commercial banks, which were recently nationalized and amalgamated into five
institutions.
State Bank of Pakistan
2.        SBP carries out the usual central bank functions of controlling
the money supply, and regulating and supervising the banking system. In
addition, it has an Agricultural Credit Department whose responsibilities
are to study the agricultural credit situation of the country, and to co-
ordinate credit services to farmers offered by ADBP and the Agricultural
Loan Schemes of the commercial banks.
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
3.        ADBP, Pakistan's principal institution for agricultural finance,
was established by the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance of 1961.
The Government holds ADBP's entire share capital of Rs 185 M. The head
office is in Islamabad; this office also serves as Zonal Headquarters for
Northern Pakistan (Punjab and NWFP). The Accounts Department and Zonal
Headquarters for Southern Pakistan (Sind and Baluchistan) is located in
Karachi. There are 11 Regional Offices, each headed by a Regional Manager,
and 166 branch Offices. ADBP has about 360 officers, most of whom have at
least a Bachelor's degree in agriculture, economics or commerce.
4.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  ADBP grants loans for both sea-
sonal inputs such as seed, fertilizer and pesticides, and capital invest-
ments such as tractors, land levelling, tubewells. Loans are classified
as short-term if for 18 months or less, medium-term if for between 18 months
and 5 years, and long-term if for more than 5 years.
5.        The loan applicant is required to present a plan specifying the
purposes for which the loan is to be used; this plan is then verified and
evaluated by an ADBP Investigation Officer. A Branch Manager is authorized
to approve loans of up to Rs 60,000; requests for larger amounts are referred



ANNEX 13
Page 2
to Regional Office or Zonal Headquarters. Approved loans are disbursed in
the form of payments to the supplier contractor rather than to the farmer.
The current rate of interest charge is 10% for loans under Rs 5,000 and 11%
for larger sums, with a 2% penalty for overdue payments.
6.        The National Bank's Supervised Credit Scheme commenced in March
1972 in the vicinity of Lyallpur. It has since expanded to include the dis-
tricts of Lyallpur, Sahiwal, Lahore, Shekhupura, Sargodha, Jhang, Sialkot,
Gujrat and Multan. Actual expansion has been slow as a matter of Bank Policy.
Some 77% of participants are in Punjabl/; the remainder are distributed, North
West Frontier Province (20%), and Baluchistan and Sind (3%). The number of
villages and farmers included in the Scheme in each season, and the outstand-
ing loans, between 31-12-1972 and 31-8-1975 are shown below:
Date               No. villages    No. farmers    Disbursements
'000          Rs '000
1972 Dec                 72            1.74             0.933
1973 June               109            2.71
1973 Dec                239            5.25             7.731
1974 June               414            9.01            13.833
it  Dec                679           15.36            25.071
1975 June               904           20.42            39.996
Aug               1055           24.08            51.390
Dec               1392           32.18            70.244
06-02-76               1557           36.02                -
7.        The scheme was set up primarily to provide short term credit for
fertilizer, seeds and pesticides, and longer term loans for tractors, tube-
wells, land development and farm plant, to small farmers, About 22% of loans
have been to farms not exceeding subsistence size, 2/ and 64% to farmers not
exceeding economic holding 2/ size. In the Punjab some 98% of loans repre-
senting 85% of credit provided in 1975 was for fertilizer. Twenty four loans
(PRS 25,000) were made for seed, 69 (PRS 240,000) for bullocks, 87 (PRS 39,000)
for other purposes. In the Shekhupura District (project area) there are cur-
rently 12 Agricultural Officers operating in 93 villages, and loans totalling
Rs 1.8 million have been made to 1450 farmers.
8.        The Scheme Manager is a Vice president of the Bank, and is located
in Lahore. He is supported by adequate administration and technical staff.
In the Provinces, each District is in charge of a District Agricultural Credit
Manager (DACM) who is a banker with considerable agricultural experience.
1/   Scheme Headquarters are in Lahore.
2/   In the Punjab 12.5 ac. and 30 ac. respectively.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
At Tehsil level there is a Basic Credit Unit (BCU) with an Agricultural Credit
Officer (ACO) or Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) incharge; the former would
be a banker with agricultural experience, and the latter an agricultural grad-
uates with some experience in banking. Each BCU employs 5 Agricultural Offi-
cers (AO) each of whom is responsible for about 10 villages. The AOs all have
B.Sc. or M.Sc. from Lyallpur Agricultural University, and are fairly rigorously
selected. After a short course in banking they are given practical training
with National Agriculture Ltd. and with experienced field personnel for a
period of up to six months. In the field they are provided with scooters
or motorcyles to improve their mobility.
9.        The villages to be included are selected by SAOs only after con-
siderable alerting of farmers through village headmen, school teachers, social
workers, pamphlets, etc. The AOs survey the villages, taking into account ac-
cess, size of holdings, land productivity and potential, availability of water,
operation of other credit schemes, 1/ size of farms and cooperation and atti-
tude of farmers. Potential farmers are selected after group meetings, their
creditworthiness is checked within the village and with the local revenue of-
ficer, their farms are visited to assess farmer's diligence and the farm po-
tential, and their passbooks, examined. The Bank's experience is that on
average, 12 to 15% of village farmers are willing and eligible to come into
the scheme initially, but over 2-3 years the number increases to about 50%.2/.
10.       Agricultural Credit Officers can approve up to Rs 3,000 2/ to any
eligible borrower on the guarantee of two sureties. With each farmer they
work out a programme for the coming season and his input requirements. After
filling out the necessary request form, the AO takes it to the nearest supply
point of the Punjab Agricultural Development Supply Corporation (PADSC), and
also makes arrangements for delivery to the applicant's farm. Loans of Rs
5,000 and 50,000 are sanctioned at Provincial Head Offices, and the bank al-
leges that loan approvals do not take more than 10 days. The interest rate
on loan is 12% p.a.
11.       Credit collections are done by AOs as soon as possible after
sale of produce and before other expenditures are undertaken by the farmer.
Loan recoveries to-date have been more than 90%, and there has been no
call for litigation.
12.       The Scheme also provides limited tractor services through the
Bank's subsidiary the National Agriculture Ltd. set up in 1975 to provide
farm inputs, farm machinery services and trained manpower to the Super-
vised Credit Project. It has some 28 tractors plus equipment, and charges
1/   Villages with other schemes such as ADBI/COB Credit Society Schemes
are excluded.
2/   For greater area coverage the Bank initially limits its intake to
about 4% of farmers of any village.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Rs 30.0 per hr. for cultivations which is below the normal contract rate.
Its operations are supported by a mobile workshop.
Commercial Banks
13.       Prior to 1972, ADBP was the major source of institutional agricul-
tural credit (medium and long-term), although commercial banks (CBs) gave
advances for marketing and processing crops, and for fertilizer supply. The
CBs were nationalized in the beginning of 1973, and under a scheme drawn up
by SBP, every CB was given a target for agricultural loans to farmers, cover-
ing seasonal inputs, cattle, tractors, tubewells and land improvement. To
implement the scheme, the five major CBs 1/ (all GOP-owned) set up agricul-
tural credit departments, staffed with agriculturalists administratively
responsible to branch managers empowered to approve loans up to a given
limit.
14.       In addition, the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) started a Special
Agricultural Credit Scheme, to cater for the credit requirements of small
farmers. The Scheme's headquarters are in Lahore, although NBP's head office
in Karachi formulates policy and coordinates operations. The Scheme has Basic
Credit Units, serving 10 to 15 villages, each adequately staffed. About 2,000
villages, and 20,000 farmers (whose average holdings are 8 to 10 ac) are cur-
rently in the Scheme.
15.       The CB lending criteria are basically sound:  (a) close and frequent
contact with borrowers; (b) appraisal based on farm plan; (c) assessment of
adequate security, and (d) evaluation of creditworthiness. The NBP's criteria
under its Scheme include some features of supervised lending, including advice
on credit utilization and farming problems, while its field officers endeavor
to obtain the farmers' confidence. Lending procedures (particularly under
the NBP Scheme) are satisfactory, and from application to grant of loans
reportedly take under three weeks on the average.
16.       A Pass Book system was legalized in May 1973.  The major security
criteria is the farmers land and civil Pass Books are thus available only
to owner operators and landlords. Each Pass Book gives full particulars
of the farmer's land, and records any mortgage or other charges thereon.
Duplicates are kept in the local Revenue Department office. When loans are
made against creation of a charge in the Pass Book, their disbursement takes
place after the charge has been duly endorsed and certified by the Revenue-
Officer. An important limitation of the Pass Book system is that issuance
and consequent credit rating of farmers, is dependent upon the judgement
of the local, politically nominated, village elder. Alternative securities
for loans agreed from the Pass Book include: (a) demand promissory note
signed by the borrower and endorsed (if required) by two guarantors; (b) hy-
pothecation of the goods (usually for tractors and tubewells), and (c) a
1/   National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL), United Bank Ltd.
(UBL), Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL) and Moslem Commercial Bank (MCB).



ANNEX 13
Page 5
lien on standing crops (mainly for seasonal loans and sometimes as additional
security for longer term loans). Wherever possible, loans are made in kind.
Interest rates for all loans are usually 2% above the SBP rate, and are
currently 11% p.a.
17.       All five CBs have satisfactory financial positions.  All are subject
annually to administrative, technical and financial inspection by SBP's Ins-
pection Department, and each is audited by a private firm of accountants of
international standing. All CBs submit monthly and quarterly returns for
analysis by SBP's Banking Control Division. Repayment performances of agri-
cultural credits have been uneven, for all CB's they have been around 75%,
for the supervised credit of NBP around 95%.
Project Credit Requirements
18.       Farmers registered with the Village Livestock Associations (VLA's)
would be the beneficiaries of the Project. These farmers would require short-
term production credit to enable them to fully develop their land. Farmers
intending to increase their dairy herd would need medium term credit; fatten-
ing of old animals with rations provided under the project would require short
term credit.
19.       The important role of the VLA's would be to provide focal points
where extension, marketing and credit services are combined and the farmer
induced to make greater use of these services. The project would not introduce
any new credit facilities but make fuller use of existing channels. It would
thus remain a precondition for credit eligibility of owner operations that
they are in possession of Pass Books. Tenant farmers would still require
the authorization of their landlords to obtain credit, or, more frequently,
would receive farm inputs from their landlords, however, VLA's would simplify
the procedure of getting passbooks or agreements from landlords. For VLA's
to take on greater and more direct credit responsibility would run counter
to the existing credit and tenant legislation and, as such, would not be ac-
ceptable. At the same time VLA's would not have, at least during the initial
period, the managerial ability to get directly involved in credit management.
20.       In addition, areas where VLA's would facilitate opening up new
credit lines would be for livestock development on tenant farms and for land-
less farmers. Under prevailing tenancy conditions livestock production on
tenant farms is not subject to landlord-tenant agreement, provided the tenant
manages the bulk of his land in accordance with this agreement. Assistance
for livestock development for landless farmers would consist primarily of
credit for the purchase of animals for fattening. As animals are an unreliable
collateral for credit, agreements would be reached under which Commercial Banks
would accept group responsibilities by VLA'S for individual credits.
Proposed Credit Channels
21.       ADBP has received three IDA Credits totalling US$67 M.  Appraisal
of a fourth credit has been delayed pending changes to be introduced by ADBP



A@NEX 13
Page 6
in its financial, managerial and organizational structure and performance.
Until these changes occur ADBP cannot be considered an acceptable channel for
the project's agricultural credit requirements. Alternatives to ADBP are the
CB's. In the project area the Allied Bank, the Muslim Commercial Bank are
particularly well established and are ready and able to establish new ones as
desired. Of particular importance would be the NBP's supervised credit system
(see Appendix) and VLA'S would be encouraged to co-operate with this scheme.
All three banks have expressed their interest to participate in the project.
Refinancing of CB's would be undertaken by SBP on the basis of existing
arrangements.
22.       Lending terms would be the standard ones for agriculture:  an
interest rate of 11% for general credit or 12% for supervised credit and a re-
payment at the end of the crop season. For medium term credit the repayment
period would be up to 5 years. Short term and medium term credit ceilings
would be:
(a) Land owners with up to 12-1/2 acres
farmers up to                             70% of requirement
(b) Land owners with between 12-1/2
and 64 acres, economic holdings           50% of requirement
(c) Land owners with holdings exceeding
economic size, i.e. more than 64 ac.    20% of requirement



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PAKISTAN
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Implementation of the project and its different sub-components
will require the use of consultants as well as the overseas training of
Pakistan staff. Financial provision has been made under the project for
the engagement of expatriate consultants in case no suitable Pakistani
nationals can be found. A total of 20 man years of consultancy staff
and 24 man years of fellowships are considered necessary for the project.
All consultants would be engaged following normal IDA guidelines.
2.        The following is a breakdown of consultancies under the project:
(i) A consultant would be engaged for two years to assist
in designing and initially establishing and operating
the expanded FMD vaccine laboratory.
(ii) To introduce bulk freezing and distribution of semen,
a consultant would be engaged by the Department of
Livestock Development for a period of 6 months.
(iii) A two man-year consultancy will be provided to the Depart-
ment to assist in planning and implementing an extended
livestock husbandry and farm management. The consultant
would be attached to the existing staff at the Bahadurngar
livestock research center. IDA would be given the oppor-
tunity to comment on terms of references for research
programs developed by the research center with the
assistance of the consultant.
(iv) For the sub-component to strengthen livestock education
a total of 3 man years of consultancy is foreseen. Ini-
tially one or two consultants would assist the university
in a critical review of the length, content and quantita-
tive output of existing training programs in animal hus-
bandry and animal health. Subject to this review the
project would provide further expert assistance as
deemed desirable as well as provide for other support
to the university.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(v) The establishment of the Lahore slaughterhouse would
require the appointment of a team of international
consultants to draw up broad specifications of equip-
ment and layout for the plant and to supervise con-
struction and initial operations. A total of three
man years equivalent for these consultants is foreseen
under the project.
(vi) To facilitate operation of the plant a meat plant manager
and an operations manager would be engaged for 3 years
each.
(vii) The arrangements for the establishment, capacity expansion
and equipment of the Lahore milk plant would be similar
to that for the slaughterhouse. A consultant would assist
in preparation of specifications, tender document and in the
supervision of installation and initial start-up operations.
For the actual operation of the plant the project would pro-
vide for the services for 3 years of a dairy plant manager.
(viii) Terms of references for the various consultants are provided
in Appendices to main report.
10.       The overseas training of Pakistani staff provided under the project
would be:
FMD vaccine production and FMD typing              2 man years
Livestock research                               0.5 man years
Artificial insemination and production
of bull frozen semen                           0.5 man years
University staff and research                   15   man years
PLB staff training                               6   man years



