Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6798
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
.PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LOAN 1366T-PAK)
June 3, 1987
South Asia Regional Office
General Agriculture I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT - (LN. 1366T-PAK)
PR'.3ECT COMPLETION REPORT
List of PrinciRal Acronyms and Abbreviation Used
AI         Artificial Insemination
CP         FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
DSM        Dried Skim Milk Powder
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FMD        Foot and Mouth Disease
GOP        Government of Pakistan
GOPu       Government of Province of Punjab
ICB        International Competition Bidding
LMP        Lahore Milk Plant
PC.l       Planning Commission Form 1
PCC        Project Coordinating Committee
PCR        Project Completion Report
PDLD       Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Department
PLB        Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Board
PRs        Pakistan Rupees
SAR        Staff Appriasal Report
UHT        Ultra-High Temperature milk treatment
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
VLA        Village Livestock Association



rOR OFFICIL Us ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Osk* oE Dv.chw-CGesvaI
Otatumw hVAMItr
June 3, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Pakistan - Punjab Livestock Project
(Loan 1366T-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Pakistan - Punjab Livestock Project
(Loan 1366T-PAK)" prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Under
the modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace 
of their offtcW dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World bak authoriation.



FOR OMCIAL UE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT - (LN. 1366T-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PEge No.
BASIC DATA SHEET....... ............. .............................    ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY.***.***...* ..*... *.e.. **..*.**0     ..*.*00.0.  iii
I. :NTRODUCTION...................,..........................        1
II.  PROJECT FORMULATION.....................oo...,. ,........        2
Project    Orgn2
Identification and Preparationo.......... ............o       2
Project Appraisal and Credit Effectivenesstiveness*o*..       3
II.  IMP*  KE. TATION...... ... ..... ...............*.. ........      4
A.  Project Start-up...a       r-              u ............... .**.*.....  4
B.  Changes in Project Dessggn.........................       5
C.  Overall Implementation Experience..............o...       5
D.  Implementation of Specific Componentso.............       6
Village Livestock Association and Field Service.      7
Milk Collection and Transport***o*o..o........o       8
Education in Livestock Productiono*oo.oon.......     12
Artificial Insemination...                           12
Land Use Mapping      p     p     i     ng............... e.......  13
E.  Consultants and Contr&ctorsoo.oo.o.o.o.o..o.o......    14
Consultancy Services .................  .........    14
Contractorsoooooooooo**oo*eoos                       14
P. Prujet Cost.s. o            o oooo. ......... ...... . . .. . .o .    15
Co Di         s b ursemtoo**oo eom e nto*oo,,oos             15
Ho Procurement....o0.o......ooo.oo.ooo... ..o.o..oo.oo    16
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT..........e*.....      16
Gener elneraloooo*oo*os*o,ooo*,oooooo*oo*eooooo**,oooooo    16
Project Coordination Commmittee.......oooo......o.o....      16
Implementing Agencies..0.... .. .. .. ..... .  * ........    17
Accounting and Reportingpo.00      r t i ng0..0...... .00... o00  17
Compliance with Covenant..... 00.......... .......0..0.    18
This document has a estricted distibution and may be used by rocipients only in the perfomance
of their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwis be dbcosed without Worid Dank authoration.



-2-
Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPACT ......................                             18
Incremental Production....... ..eo....................    18
Technological Change........................................    18
Social Impact ...............................    18
VI.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE   .................. o    20
Financial Performanceo.....e.....o.........o...............    20
Economic Performance...................................    22
VII.  WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................    22
Project Design and Appraisal...........................    22
Supe rvis..i on.          .... ..........a.................. ................. ...........    22
VIIIo SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS              ............ ..    23
Lessons Learned ............................ ,    24
List of Annexes
ANNEX 1
Table 1 - Annual Project Expenditures.........................    25
Table 2 - Comparision between Appraiaal Cost Extimates and
Actual Expenditureso............... ...............    26
Table 3 - Disbursement of Loano.............................*o       27
ANNEX 2
Table 1 - Staff Employed by Punjab Livestock Board............    28
Table 2 - Annual Registration of VLAs........................*   29
Table 3 - Summary of Project Training at PLB Center...........    30
Table 4 - Artificial Insemination of Buffalo and Cattle.......    31
ANNEX 3
Table 1 - Sources of Milk Procurement - Lahore Milk Plant.....    32
Table 2 - Summary of Output of Milk Plant 1984-85
Following Rehabilitation.........................    33
Table 3 - Utilization of UHT Milk Produced in
Lahore Milk Plant. ...............................    34
Table 4 - Loans to VLAs.......................................    35
Table 5 - Lahore Milk Plant: Balance Sheet 1975-76 to 1983-84.    36
Table 6 - Lahore Milk Plant: Profit and Loss Account from
1975-76 tp 1984-85..... ......... o .................    37
Table 7 - Lahore Milk Plant Assumptions for Computing
Revenue and Costs...... ............... ...........    38
Table 8 - Lahore Milk Plant: Income and Operating Costs.......    39
Table 9 - Economic Analysis...................................    40
ANNEX 4    - Comments of the Government of Pakistan on the
Project Completion Reporto.............o...........    41
MAP No. IBRD12201R2
Major Land Use and Canal Commands



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJBCT (LN. 1366T-PAR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report of the Punjab Livestock
Project in Pakistan for which a loan in the amount of US$ 10.0 million was
extended to the Government of Pakistan in February 1977. Credit closing
occured on December 31, 1985 after three years extension. The final
disbursement was made in July 15, 1986 and the undisbursed balance of
US$ 1.6 million (16X of the loan amount) was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) and was reviewed by the General Agriculture I Division of the South
Asia Region. The preparation of the PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1193-PAK) dated January 18, 1977, the President's Report
(No. P1860-PAR) dated January 19, 1977, the Project Agreements dated
February 18, 1977, correspondence witb the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda
on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files as well as interviews
with officials both in the Bank and in Pakistan who have been associated with
the project.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on
February 12, 1987 for comments, and these comments have been incorporated and
are attached as Annex 4.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- _i -
PAtISTAN
MJAU  IVTO    PROJE   (LN. 1366T-PAX)
PROJECT COMPLETION RPORT - RASIC DAtA SHT
KeY Proieet Dte,
Appraisal                      Actual as X of
Estite          Actual       Aoraisal Eatimate
Project Coats (US$ million)         19.7           10.8                55
Loon Amount (VS million)            10.0             8.4 pj            84
Date of Effectiveness             05/25/77       08/03/77
Dote Board approval               02/01/77
Date Physical Components
Completed                       05/25/81       01/31/85
Closing Date                      12/31/82       12/31/85
Economic Rate of Return (S)          30             9
Institutional Performance         adequate      inadequate
Technical Perfomance              adequate          fair
Stzff Input
Identification/Preparation  39.9 89.5  7.1                                      136.5
Appraial                    29.4 29.4  25.0                                      83.8
Negotiations                            5.6                                       5.6
Supervision                 -          13.9        §   23.7 15.   18.2 15 A lS5.
Total (Staff-weekts)        69.3 118.9 51.6 23.9 36.0 23.7 15.5 18.2 12.5 11.3 280.9
Cumulative 2isbursement
IDA Fiscal Years:                      En FY79 "SO U5K EL8 1.  EM  EL   a5
Appraisal Estimate (U8$ zillion)        1.3  3.9  7.9 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
Actual (US$  illion)                    0   0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  4.1  5.8  6.8  8.4
Actual as 5 of gat.                      0    3    3    2    2   41   58  68   84
m-ission Data
Date      No.   Han-days  Specialization    k'       sl   Type of
Hiss-ion Dtla     (MthtIr)  Persons  in field Reprgesened    StatuserA    Problem
Identification       05/75     4       100        L,L,A,E                 -
Preparation       07/09/75     4        60        L,L.A,E
Appraisal         01102176     4       100        L,L,A,l         -       -       -
Supervision .        03/77     3        s0         L,L,E          1       1       -
Supervision 11       08177     2        18          ,IR           1       1
Supervision III      03/78     2        19          L,E           1       2       p
Supervision IV       07/78     2        36          L'E           2       3     I,F,P
Supervision V        02/79     2        60         L,L,P          3       3     M,F,P
Supervision VI       08/79     3        33         L,L,F          3       1     N,F?P
Supervision VII      03/80     2        18          L,F           3       1     N,F?P
supervision VIII     11/80     1         6           L            2       1      P?M
Supervision IX       06/81     1        11           L            2       3      P,*
Supervision X        02183     1        10           F            2       1       H
Supervision XI       06/83     1         4           F            2       1       H
Supervision III      12/83     2        16          F,A           2       1       n
Supervision XIII    09/84      2        10          E,A           2       2       F
Supervision XIV      08/85     2         8          L,A           2       2      P,F
IL  A - Agriculturist; I - Economist; F o Finncial Analyst;
L - Livestock Specialist; P * Animal Products Processing Specialist;
R - Land Resource Planner
kI 1 - Problm free or minor problem; 2 - moderate probles;
3 * major problme
£/ 1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 * deteriorating
A/ F - financial; 1 - managerial; T - teehnical; P - political
Other Proiect Lat
Borrover                            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Fiscal Year                         July 1 to June 30
ame of Currency                     Rupee (Pie)
Cutreny vebhana. fRates:
Appraisal Year                            1976/77        US$1.00 a  9.90
Intervening years Average           1976/77 to 1980/81  US$1.00 - 9.90
1981/82       US$1.00 a 10.55
1982/83      U8S1.00 a 12.75
1983/84        S8$1.00 a 13.50
1984/85       VS$1.00 * 15.24
Completion Year (Decaeber 1985)                         48$1.00 * 15.90



-iii-
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT (LN. 1366T-PAg)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
I. Introduction
1.      The Livestock Sub-sector constitutes about 29Z of value added in
agriculture and, contributes about 161 of agricultural export earnings.
2.      In support of the Livestock Sub-sector, the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) expressed interest in the World Bank's assistance for a project which
was to be directed at utilizing the beef potential of the large nunmer of
rale buffalo calves which registered high mortality rates due to underfeed-
ing. Further preparation of the project also aimed at increasing livestock
and agricultural output on about 60,000 farms.
II. Objectives
3.      The project whch was to be implemented by the Punjab Livestock#
D iry and Poultry Development Board (PLB) in five years aimed primarily at
improving marketing of meat and milk by offering adequate prices with
technical support and assured input supply to encourage increased supply of
beef and milk from the existing herd. These were to be achieved by better
feeding of livestock, disease control, upgrading of village livestock, provi-
sion of greatly improved marketing, credit and extension services, production
of vaccine, and construction or improvement of meat and milk processing
facilities. The project also proposed to establish about 350 Village
Livestock Association (VLA).
III. Implementation Experience
4.      The project was to cost US$25 M. The central project authority for
all field development work was the PLB, while the Punjab Department of Live-
stock, Dairy and Poultry Development (PDLD) was responsible for extension,
artificial insemination, vaccine production and research and the University
of Faisalabad was responsible for improved training in livestock production.
5.      Implementation of the project was much slower than anticipated
(paras 3.5-3.7). Initial delays were caused by Martial Law Administration,
introduced in March 1977 which required review of all actions taken by the
previous political regime. Subsequent delays were due to a waning of inter-
est in the project by the Government of Punjab (COPu).
6.      PLB was beset by problems of frequent changes in leadership of the
organization. Under these circumstances, PLB could not provide effective
management and coordination that was required for this multi-component



-iv-
project. This state of affairs had its toll on staff morale who interpreted
events as a signal of reduced GOPu commitment, hence uncertainty and
resultant delay.
7.      There were also no clear relationships between the three agencies
involved in the project. The PDLD and the University of Agriculture
considered the project as essentially belonging to PLB. The Project Coor-
dination Committee (PCC) met only infrequently and was unable to ensure that
these two authorities undertook their tasks under the project. Partly
because of these problems, the project which became effective on August 3,
1977 was reclassified as a problem project and was subjected to a review by
GOP and the World Bank in July 1979. This review resulted in the reduction
in the scope and size of the project. Two components - vaccine production
and livestock research were excluded and so were other components so that
the project was reduced to the development of VLA's and milk processing
facilities. The exclusion of the other components resulted in a reduction
of project costs and the loan amount by about 40% of the original estimate
8.      The formation of associations of village livestock owners was to be
a vital feature of the project. It was assumed that half of the 1000
villages in the project area would form VLA's and 70% of small farmers would
become members of VLA's. However, this assumption proved over-optimistic
since the concept was new to both technical staff and farmers and by the end
of the project less than 8000 farmers were members of a total of 150 VIA's
which were formed.
9.      The PCC had not been able to remove the major bottlenecks during the
project's crisis period. It did not also succeed in bringing about
continuity in PLB management or integration of the various components and
meetings of the PCC were stopped after the inital years.
IV. Results
10.     Owing to the reduction in VLA's from 500 to 150 of which only about
90 were active, only a minimal incremental increase in production was
achieved and this is insignificant on a national or provincial scale.
However, within the villages with active VLA's, animal numbers increased by
29% while milk production registered a marked increase (para 3.10).
11.     The project has also introduced a small number of VLA farmer families
to the concept of selling milk on the basis of butter fat content which
system is accepted as beneficial.
12.     The facilities and equipment for artificial insemination (AI)
provided under the project had not been utilized and the AI component had
no significant effect as the Department had already adopted deep frozen semen
technology with FAO/UNDP-assistance (paras 3.40-3.45).
13.     On a positive note, the project with respect to milk collection an
processing has helped PLB to keep pace with dairy development in Punjab.
Without this assistance, the already existing milk plant would have had
little or no possibility of survival.



14.     The estimated increase in saleable milk of about 15,000 liters per
day at the current purchase price and shared by 8000 farm families is equiv-
alent to an incremental income of about Pakistan Rupees 1,620 per family, per
year.
15.     The most significant social impact of the project has been to make
good quality standardized milk with a long-shelf life availAble throughout
major centers in Pakistan.  Although the Lahore Milk Plant x   ) is not the
only participant in this development, it seems that this trend tovards
consumption of quality processed milk will continue.
16.     Overall, the project has not met its original objectives of improving
livestock production and the incomes of a large number of farm families in
the project area. However, it has created a nucleus of functioning VLA's
which could lay the basis for further development.  The project has also
strengthened the Al service in Punjab through the provision of buildings and
equipment which could be utilized in the future Likewise, it has improved
facilities and laboratory equipment to the College of Veterinary Sciences
which can increase the training standard of stock assistants in the Province
and ass.st provision of extension advise to VLA's.
V. Findings and Lessons
17.     Important lessons have been learned from the project.  Jn terms of
project formulation, an important lesson is that particular attention should
be paid to limiting the number of components to those strictly necessary for
attaining the project's main objectives. The tendency to address a range of
problems simultaneously in order to satisfy the aspirations of government
officials should be avoided (para 8.7).
18.     A critical examination is required at appraisal of the existing and
planned commitments, organizational structure and staff capability of the
executing agencies' to assess their implementation capacity. A recurring
problem that arose in project execution is executing agency delays in deci-
sion making and it is unrealistic to expect a successful commercial undertak-
ing emerging in a situation where management lacks the autonomy in decision
making. However, frequent change in the management of the project and
excessive delays in taking decisions may also be signs of wavering commitment
to a project and review missions need to identify the underlying causes
(para 8.7).
19.     A detailed knowledge of the market requirements is necessary prior
to identifying the needs of plant and equipment, perhaps through a detailed
market survey or study. This should be a prerequisite to the determination
of the product mix of the milk plant.
20.     Project actions should proceed in the cGrrect sequence.  The Bank,
through its supervisory activities should have ensured the development of
VLA's before the setting up of the LMP. Also, the purchase of tankers should
have preceeded the setting up of the chilling centers.



-vi-
21.     In a project such as this, the purchasing policy of the LMP should
allow for the collection of all milk offered by the farmer regardless of
quantity of supply. In dealing with a highly perishable product, farmer
confidence is of utmost importance to ensure increased and continuous milk
supply. Pricing policy, including overall marketing policy needs to be
oriented to building and maintenance of farmer confidence (para 8.7).



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVFSTOCK PROJECT (LN.1366T-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Agriculture  is  the  mainstay  of  Pakistan's  economy.  Despite a
gradual decline in relative importance over the years, agriculture still
accounts for about 30% of GOP and some 60% of the total labour force.
Agriculture is also the principal supplier of raw material for industry and
the most important source of foreign exchange. In 1982, the sector accounted
for about 45% of total exports. Crops and livestock dominate the sector
accounting for about 68% and 28% of agricultural GOP respectively.
1.2      The performance of the agricultural sector has varied over the past
few decades. Growth rate in the fifties averaged 1.6% per year which was
lower than the population growth rate. As the result of increased supply of
irrigation water, new policies, use of high yielding varieties and good
weather, the agricultural growth rate was raised to an annual average of
3.8% for the period 1960-65 and 6.3% for 1965-70, which was greater than the
population growth of 2.8-3.0% per annum. During 1970-75, however, the
agricultural sector growth rate declined to an. average of less than 1% per
annum, leading to serious economic problems in the country. The poor
performance was, among other thlrgs, due to successive years of bad weather
and the 1971 civil war. In order to counter this poor performance, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) intensified irrigation development and the
supply of inputs, and introduced incentives that encouraged farmers to
increase their production. A number of agricultural programmes and projects
were undertaken, ranging from purely sub-sectoral projects for irrigation
and  input  supply  development,  to  integrated   rural   development   and
agricultural   sector  support.  These  efforts  succeeded  in  accelerating
agricultural development. The growth of the sector varied between 3.5% and
4% per annum for the period 1976-83.
1.3      In  support  of the agricultural sector, GOP launched a World Bank-
assisted livestock project in August 1977. This project was the first World
Bank assistance to the livestock sub-sector in Pakistan. The project aimed at
utilising the beef production potential of wale buffalo calves and at
increasing livestock and agricultural output on about 60,000 fanms. The
project area was confined to Sheikhupura District in Punjab Province.
1.4      As project executio6  was terminating in December 1985, an FAO/World
Bank   Cooperative   Programme   (CP)   mission    visited    Pakistan    in
November/December to assist in the preparation of a project completion
report (PCR). That mission produced this PCR which is. based on project
documents and reports prepared by GOP, Government of Punjab (GOPu) and the
World Bank Ouring project preparation and implementation, on discussions the



-2-
mission held with Government officials and farmers, and on visits the
mission made to the project area.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Origln
2.1      In mid-1974, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme carried out a
livestock   sector  survey  in  Pakistan  in  which  the  major  development
requirements of the sector were identifled. One of these was the expansion
of buffalo meat production for export. In the same year, GOP expressed
interest in World Bank assistance for a project to utilise the beef
potential of the large number of male buffalo calves which were allowed to
die of underfeeding as they could not be reared economically. GOP agreed
that such a project would require increased beef prices mhich were expected
to be achieved by a relaxation of the Government ban on beef exports. Based
on this, a project was sought to be prepared for World Bank assistance.
Identification and Preparation
2.2      At the request of  the  GOP,  a  CP  mission  visited  Pakistan  in
May/June 1975 to assist in the identification and preparation of a project
for strengthening animal health and developing beef production as well as to
examine opportunities for milk and mutton production. This mission visited
the four provinces and identifled a series of projects which could be
prepared for World Bank assistance. Most of the proposed investment was for
marketing and processing facilities. Even though broad areas of investment
were identified during this mission, it was agreed within the Government
that preparing projects for simultaneous implementation in all the provinces
should be avoided and that a project in.Punjab should be the first of a
series.
2.3      Identification work was therefore accelerated  in  Punjab  where  a
comprehensive buffalo meat and milk production project in Sheikhupura
district was conceived. This was expected to involve about 150,000 families
who would benefit from the sale of 3,000 tons carcase weight of finished
buffalo calves and 40,000 tons of milk annually. Major investment was to be
on slaughter and meat processing facilities for 400 head daily and milk
processing facilities for 100 tons milk daily. Total investment was roughly
estimated at USS15-20 million.
2.4      This   broadly   identified   project   was  subjected  to  further
preparation by the Punjab Livestock, baity and Poultry Development Board
(PLB), and with the assistance of CP a preparation report was completed in
October 1975. The project, to be implemented by the Board in five years,
aimed primarily at improving marketing of meat and milk by offering adequate
prices with technical support and assured Input supply to encourage
increased  production  of  beef  and  milk  from the existing herd. The main
elements of the project consisted in better feeding of -livestock, disease
control,  upgrading  of  village  livestock,  provision  of greatly improved
marketing, credit and extension services to about 90,000 farm families;
construction or improvement of meat and milk processing facilities and
production of vaccine. In order to deliver services to farmers and to
receive produce, the project proposed to establish about 350 Villaae
Livestock Associations (VLA). The central project authority for all field



-3-
development work would be PLB while the Punjab Department of Livestock,
Dairy and Poultry Development (POL0) would be responsible for extension,
artificial insemination and health services, for vaccine production and
research and the University of Faisalabad (Lyallpur) for improved training
in livestock production. The project to be implemented over a five-year
period was estimated to cost US$25 million.
ProJect Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness
2.53     The  project  was  appraised  by the World Bank in January/February
1976. As outlined in the Appraisal Report of January 1977, project
components comprised:
-.     a) establishinq  and  operatina,  under  the control of PLB. about 500
farmer owned Village Livestock Associations (VLA), which  would  be
the foci for the delivery of governmental and other support
services  including  extension,  animal   health   and   artificial
insemination. The VLAs would purchase milk from their members for
sale  to  PLB  and  supply  its  members  with  essential   inputs.
Membership of each VIA would, at project maturity, comprise about
120 families;
b) strengthening the PDLO to improve its research and extension
activities,   foot   and  mouth  disease  vaccine  production,  and
artificial insemination (Al) capabilities and thus to provide
project participants with efficient support services;
c) improving the animal production training caoacity of the University
of Faisalabad to ensure the provision of adequate numbers of
suitably trained livestock technicians;
d) expanding thee existing Lahore milk plant (LMP - which was to be
transferred from the Lahore Dairy Board and become a subsidiary of
PLB) from a capacity of 25,000 litres/day to 100,000 litres/day to
handle the increase in marketed milk expected to be brought about
by the project; and the establishment of milk collection and milk
chilling centres in Sheikhupura District;
e) constructinq  a  modern  export-standard  slauahterhouse  and  meat
processing  facilitY in Lahore to be owned bY PLB, with a capacity
of 400 head of cattle and buffalo per shift. This was intended to
replace existing unhygienic facilities, cater for the increased
throughput of larger animals expected to be generated by the
project, and provide facilities for processing meat and by-products
for export and domestic consumption;
f) improving some 10,000 acres of PLB managed farm land in order to
increase rapidly the production of improved cattle; and
g) mapping land use in the project area in order to determine seasonal
land use patterns.
2.6      The  project was to be implemented by PLB and POLO of the GOPu, and
by the University of Agriculture. The PDLD, was to be responsible for
provision of livestock extension and artificial insemination services and
animal health services including production of foot and mouth disease
vaccine. The University of Agriculture was assigned to implement the
training component in animal production. The PLB was made responsible for



-4-
developing VLAs and setting up milk purchase and collecting systems,
chilling centres and also for refurbishing the LMP. It was also responsible
for management of the farms allocated to it and for liaison with the
University authorities for training requirements.
2.7      Although the two Government agencies were both responsible  to  the
Minister of Livestock Development of the Government of Punjab and their
responsibilities were well delineated, a Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) was established to coordinate the efforts of the implementing agencies
with other departments and agencies and to supervise and monitor the
project. Its Chairman was to be appointed by the Chief Minister and members
of the committee included representatives of the Departments of Finance,
Planning and Development, PDLD, the University of Faisalabad, PLB, Animal
Husbandry Commissioner of GOP and jointly the five commercial banks and the
Agricultural Developmen, Bank of Pakistan. The PCC was to be assisted by a
small secretariat to handle administrative matters.
2.8      As  appraised,  the  project  was  essentially   similar   to   the
preparation proposal with the exception of increased disease control and
support services. Project costs, including contingencies were estimated at
PRs195 million or US$19.7 million with a foreign exchange component of about
50%. The project was expected to yield an economic rate of return of 30%. A
loan of US$10 million was approved and was signed on 17 February, 1977 and
the project became effective on 3 August, 1977, with an expected closing
date of 31 December, 1982.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Start-up
3.1      The  project  had  a  promising  early start. The first supervision
mission which visited Pakistan in March/April 1977 reported that the project
enjoyed strong support from GOP and GOPu and enthusiasm in the executing
agencies was high. The PCC was formally constituted and held its first
meeting on 26 June 1977 before project effectiveness. Oraft invitations for
consultants on the milk plant and slaughterhouse components as well as draft
terms of reference for all consultants were prepared and cleared. Until the
Government document required for approval by all concerned with the project
(PC-1) was finalised, anticipatory approval for expenditures up to March
1979 was given. During the same period, the Lahore milk plant was taken over
by PLB as envisaged by the project.          0
3.2      In  spite of the promising start however; some setbacks soon became
apparent. Two separate PC-ls were prepared for the PLB and the POLD and were
submitted to GOPu in June 1977. These were not approved as the GOPu decided
that they should be re-submitted as a single PC-1 for the project. After re-
submission of the combined PC-1 however, clearance was delayed because of a
lengthy debate on the financial viability of the slaughterhouse component
and the scope of the VLAs. The PC-i was not cleared until March 1979 with
modifications and revisions  which  resulted  in  tne  deletion  of  several
components (paras 3.3-3.4).



-5-
B. Changes-in Project Design
3.3      As no material progress was being made in  project  implementation,
the  project  was  reclassified  as a problem project and was subjected to a
review by GOP and the World Bank in July 1979. This review resulted in the
reduction  of  the scope and size of the project. Two components namely foot
and mouth vaccine production and livestock research were excluded from the
project  as  they  were  expected  to  be  financed  by British aid and UNOP
respectively. Another two components, development of tenant-operated PLB
farm and construction of a slaughterhouse were deleted from the project
because these appeared to be no longer viable. PLB was not able to prepare
specific development plans for the use of the farms in the training for VLAs
and staff in improved livestock production and increased crop production.
Based   on  a  feasibility  study  of  the  slaughterhouse  carried  out  by
consultants and using up-dated costs, the financial and economic viability
of the plant was found to be marginal.
3.4      With  such  changes,  the project was reduced to the development of
VLAs and milk processing facilities. The exclusion of the four components
resulted in the reduction of project costs and the loan amount to about 40X
of the original estimate. Because of the delay in implementation and
inflation, however, final costs in PRs amounted to 55% of the appraisal
estimates (Annex 1, Table 2).
C. Overall Implementation Experience.
3.5      Implementation of the project was  much  slower  than  anticipated.
Delays were caused initially by the Martial Law Administration, introduced
in March 1977 which required review of all actions taken during the previous
political regime. For instance, consultants which were short-listed in June
1977, had to have their terms  of  reference  cleared  by  th   Martial  Law
Administration which delayed issuance of invitations. Subsequent delays were
due to eroded GOPu interest in the project as appraised. GOPu took a long
time to approve the PC-1 and questioned the viability of the slaughterhouse
component, although it had been agreed during appraisal and negotiation.
3.6      PLB's  implementation  capacity  proved  to  be  much   less   than
anticipated and there were four changes of Managing Director within the
first two years of project effectiveness. Between 1976 and 1985, PLB had
nine Managing Directors, an average duration of 1 year. In the prevailing
circumstances,  the  PLB  could  not  provide  the  management  skills   and
coordination that were required for a successful multi-component project.
This  unsatisfactory  state  also  seriously  affected  staff   morale   who
interpreted the events as signals of reduced GOPu commitment and thus
uncertainty. An additional factor which contributed to the delay in
implementation was the lengthy negotiations taken to recruit consultants.
3.7      The  POLO  and  the  University  of  Agriculture did not operate on
schedule as they considered the project as belonging essentially to PLB. The
PCC did not meet regulari, and was not forceful in emphasizing the role and
duty of these two authorities in the project.



-6-
3.8      Because of  all  these  factors  and  departmental  rivalries,  the
project  had  to  be  scaled-down  (para  3.3)  and  the  closing  date  was
successively extended three times to 31 December 1983, 1984 and 1985.
D. Implementation of Specific Components
Village Livestock Associations and Field Service
3.9      The  survey  of  villages, selection of VLAs and their registration
and subsequent development was to be implemented by the PLB. The POLO was to
be responsible for veterinar-y services, artificial insemination, production
of  vaccines,  livestock  production  extension,  research   and   training.
Successful implementation therefore depended upon very close collaboration
between the two principal agencies.
3.10     Establishment of VLAs.  The formation of  associations  of  village
livestock owners was a vital feature of the project. They were designed to
improve methods of livestock production and to integrate more effectively
the livestock and crop production activities of some 60,000 small farmers
and landless stock owners. To ensure a satisfactory legal framework, the
Government of Punjab prepared specific legislation for the registration of
VLAs. <1> Some delays were experienced in the preparation and enactment of
this law.
3.11     It  was  originally  assumed  for project formulation purposes that
half the 1,000 villages in the project area would form VLAs and that 70% of
the small farmers and stock owners in each VLA village would become members.
In practice this assumption proved over-optimistic since the concept was new
to both technical staff and livestock owners. Field work commenced in 1978
and by April, only ten VLAs had been identified. Owing to the delay in
finalising the legislation, these early VLAs could not be registered until
1979/80. Subsequently, the target for VLA fofmation was reduced to 300 by 30
June, 1984 and the area was extended to three districts - Sheikhupura,
Okara, Kasur. Later, the number of associations was further reduced to  150.
Additional delay occurred due to the necessity to amend the legislation to
include the additional districts. The establishment of VLAs is shown in
Annex 2, Table 2.
3.12     Thus,  in  spite  of  the initial enthusiasm of the farmers and the
staff, the programme was effectively diluted and spread over a larger area
with fewer associations. A further adverse factor was the reduced number of
farmer beneficiaries. The VLA Ordinance specified fifty members as the
minimum for establishing a VLA and thus the large majority of VLAs (88%)
were registered with this minimum number-of members (Sheikhupura 97%, Okara
45% and Kasur 62%). Thus project benefit was restricted to about 8,000
families  instead  of  the  60,000  originally  assumed.  This   number   of
beneficiaries was further reduced because only some 95 of the 150 VLAs
registered were actually delivering milk, with milk delivery from about
4,750 families.< 2> Without additional survey work, it was not possible to
differentiate numbers of landless and land owners within this number.
'1>      Punjab Livestock Assocations and Livestock Association Unions
(Registration and Control) Ordinance, 1979. Ordinance V of 1979 (25
April).
<2>      Efforts are, however, underway to recomission some of the donmant
VLAs.



-7-
3.13     Loans were granted to 101 VLAs to  enable  them  to  purchase  milk
testing equipment and medicines and to assist in the establishment of a milk
trade. These loans were made between May 1981 and April 1983, were repayable
over five years and carried no Interest. Twentyfour percent of the loans
were made in kind as equipment. By October 1985, only 81 VLAs had repaid the
loans while 13 VLAs had made no repayment (see Annex 3, Table 4).
3.14     Extension  and  health  services.  Historically  the Directorate of
Extension of the PDLD was concerned with animal health, with maJor emphasis
on prophylaxis and treatment. With increased interest in animal production
in the early 1970s, a Directorate of Livestock Production Extension and
Artificial Insemination was set up in PDLO. With FAO/UNDP assistance, this
Directorate concentrated its activities in the- districts of Sahiwal,
Sargodha and Gujranwala, i.e. in districts different to the project. The
position was further confused by transferring POLD's livestock production
extension and AI services to the Directorate General of Extension (Animal
Health) between 1 January 1983 and 6 November 1985.
3.15     While it appears that some collaboration existed between the  Field
Service  Organization  of  PLB  and  the veterinary hospitals and artificial
insemination sub-centres of POLD when they were fortuitously sited close to
the VLAs, it was not possible to ensure that every VLA received sufficient
attention from extension and animal health workers.   The most active and
fortunately situated VLAs received adequate support from the extension
and health services, but overall the support provided was less than
had  been  envisaged  or  was  required.  Noteworthy, is that no progress
was made with vaccination against Foot and Mouth Disease. The national
production of vaccine has not yet been sufficiently developed to
provide enough vaccine for VLA livestock. This was due to failure of
negotiations for a grant from a bilateral donor to step up FMD vaccine
production. These negotiations are now being revived.
3.16     Traininq of farmers and VLA workers.  Efforts were made to  provide
training for VLA officials and workFers and also for farmers. A training
centre was constructed in 1982 on a site in Sheikhupura town close to the
project area and became operational in April 1983. Bearing in mind that
formation of VLAs commenced In 1978/79 and that peak levels of registration
of VLAs occurred in 1981/82, this training centre could have been more
effective if inaugurated earlier. Nevertheless, satisfactory syllabuses were
developed  for training of chairmen and secretaries of VLAs, VLA members and
farmers and for village women. Trainees included 60 VLA secretaries (6
months), 14 extension workers (40 days) and in-service-training was provided
to about 200 local staff of the POLD, extension workers and spearhead teams.
Attempts to provide 15-day courses for farmers were less successful because
farmers were reluctant to stay away from their holdings. Nevertheless, some
80 farmers received training; this constitutes about 1% of the 6,400 active
VLA members.
3.17     Other syllabuses were developed for dairy technicians and livestock
assistants. Some duplicate the National Dairy Training courses held at the
University of Agriculture, Faisalabad and the Stock Assistant train lug given
by the College of Veterinary Sciences, Lahore. Confusion also existed as to
whether  training  in  AI  should  be  restricted  to  specialists  of   the
Directorate of Animal Production Extension and Artificial Insemination.



-8-
3.18     Considerable uncertainty exists among the staff about the future of
the school following termination of the World Bank assistance. The first
principal has resigned and been replaced and 11 out of 25 posts (44%)
chiefly in administrative and supporting grades are vacant (see Annex 2,
Table 1). The training school has a continuing and important part to play in
ensuring further development of the VLAs and should concentrate on teaching
VLA secretaries and participating farmers.
Milk Collection and Transport
3.19     Attention  was  rightly devoted to the problems of collecting small
quantities of milk from VLAs and its successful transport to the LMP, and it
must be recalled that milk for UHT treatment must be as pure as possible.
Owing to the reduction in the numbers of VLAs registered (para 3.12),
collection routes were less concentrated and quantities of milk were less
than envisaged.
3.20     The VLA concept was  patterned  on  the  successful  village  dairy
societies established elsewhere in south Asia. These included paying cash
for each delivery (less any dues owing to the VLA) and collection of the
milk twice daily. The success of the system depended upon: the goodwill of
the farmers; the building and commissioning of the chilling centres; and the
distance to the milk plant.
3.21     Orderly  and  logical  implementation of the milk collection system
was not achieved, principally because of delays in awarding the contract for
rehabilitation of the LMP and in its subsequent completion, and secondly
because the consultant services did not include advise on setting up of
chilling centres. Initially, formation of spearhead teams and registrations
of VLAs was delayed pending enactment of specific new legislation governing
these associations. Subsequently, formation of VLAs was hastened forward
in 1981/82 before the LMP had been rehabilitated but when the LMP began
commercial production in July 1984, the chilling centres were still at the
planning stage.
3.22     Nevertheless these difficulties have been tackled and milk is being
collected and, satisfactorily transported to the LMP for UNT treatment. The
existing system has, however, departed from the original pattern in the
following respects:
- Milk is not paid for daily on delivery but weekly in arrears. This
system appears to be convenient to all concerned and is accepted by
producers   provided   prompt  payment  'is  made  at  these  weekly
intervals.
- Milk is also collected from non-members of the VLAs and some VLA
officers are thus acting as milk collectors. As an interim measure,
there is no objection to this end indeed the benefits outweigh any
disadvantages. In the longer-term, however, it is to be hoped that
the services provided by the VLAs will attract new membership.
- The principle, that all milk offered by the VLAs must be purchased,
has been violated by LMP which has from time to time refused to
receive milk on one or more days.
- Milk is not yet collected twice daily so that only the morning milk
can be collected from producers. Once the chilling centres become
operational, these problems should be resolved.



-9-
- Owing to the delay in completion of the chilling centres, milk
collected is currently chilled by blocks of water ice, with the
additional costs and problems attendant on this method.
3.23     Expansion  of  Lahore milk plant.  The expansion and rehabilitation
of Lahore milk plant was completed in 1984. The technical facilities of the
plant have been markedly improved and the new processing and pack;;ging
machinery has been fitted into the existing building In a satisfactory
manner. The addition of a 750 kVA generator was timely and has already
proved its worth in maintaining production during the frequent periods of
load-shedding that are currently necessary due to scarcity of electrical
generation capacity in Lahore.
3.24     An existing effluent treatment plant  has  also  been  enhanced  to
modern standards.
3.25     The  refurbished  plant has a capacity of 65,000 litres UNT milk in
tetrahedron packs and 15,000 litres of pasteurized milk in bulk, in two
shifts per day. The plant also has the capacity to produce 2.5 tons of
butter per day in 200 gram packs and has a yoghurt production facility for
5,000 litres per day in plastic cartons of 0.5 litre. The butter and yoghurt
facilities have been tested and commissioned but were not yet in production
due to lack of paper and cartons.<3> It was understood that the consultants
employed by PLB did not recommend production of icecream or cheese.
3.26     The UNT treated milk is packed aseptically in either 0.5 1 or  0.25
1 tetrahedron paper packs. Three machines produce 0.5 litre packs and one
machine produces 0.25 litre packs.
3.27     Although the objective of expansion and modernisation of the Lahore
milk plant has been achieved, there are a number of issues concerning
selectior, of equipment which require critical examination. These are:
a) Provision has been made for the production of pasteurised milk in
bulk. No clear indication could be obtained of why this facility
was required. Apparently, bulk pasteurised milk had previously been
supplied  to  one compiny up to 1980. This milk was thought to have
been resold to hospitals. This  purchaser  is  understood  to  have
ceased  operations  and currently there is no known market for bulk
pasteurised milk. With the ready availability of reliable UHT  milk
in aseptic packings on the Lahore market, there is unlikely to be a
market in the future for bulk pasteurised milk. On grounds of
consumer taste, there may be a market for pasteurised milk in 0.5
or 1 litre packings, but this would require the purchase and
fitting of a new carton filling line. The pasteurizing facility may
also be used to feed the yoghurt production line. <4>
b) Regions  which  rely  on  milk  production  from   water   buffalo,
experience marked seasonal differences in supply volume. In order
to ensure continuing goodwill and an outlet for the farmers' milk,
collecting centres and plants must be able to purchase all the milk
offered by the farmer/producer, even in the season of maximum
availability. This situation is conveniently met by production of
dried skim milk (DSM) powder and butter oil in the flush season for
recombining   and   toning  when  milk  supplies  are  scarce.  The
alternative to this solution is to rely on commercially available
or aid supplies of OSM and butter oil for the lean supply season
and to refuse purchase of farmers' milk in the flush season. This
<3> These are now in production.
<4> This is being done now.



-10-
second alternative appears to have been chosen for the Lahore milk
plant, as the equipment for DNS and butter oil was not provided by the
project. As a result, VLAs have not been able to sell to LMP all
milk they wished to sell. This 'purely' commercial behaviour of the
PLB/LMP has undermined farmers' confidence in the milk collection
system. This is further reflected in the belief that LMP could use
cheaper imported raw materials for reconstruction of milk rather
than DSM and butter oil produced from domestically produced milk
during flush seasons.
c) Attention was drawn to the fact that a "clarifier" had not been
included in the plant design, which relied only on the simpler and
less effective milk filtration. This problem had been overcome by
purchase and fitting of a clarifier with Government funds. The
consultants may only have had experience of more sophisticated
conditions but in the circumstances of collection from small
farmers in rural areas, a clarifier is essential. <5>
d) The machine supplied for butter packing was designed to produce
only 200 g packs. Furthermore, the machine was supplied without
stocks of paper for initial use. It was subsequently found that the
type of paper with exact perforations could not be obtained or
manufactured locally, with the result that the UMP is now coumitted
to importation of paper wrapping for the foreseeable future. The
UMP is now endeavouring to repair an old butter packing machine to
provide packs of 100 g and 50 g. <6>
e) A similar situation pertains to the yoghurt filling machine
provided,  namely  lack  of  initial 'start-up' supplies of plastic
containers and dedication to a single (large) pack of 0.5 litre.
This has resulted in considerable delays in utilising the machine
and reliance on the market rival firm for supply of the plastic
cups. Provision for change to 125 ml cups has not been made
althoughthe machine could be adapted with additional expense and
expertise. <6>
f) Small collection tankers have been imported to collect
milk from the VLAs and transport it to the chilling centres. These
consist of flat-bed lorry chassis carrying two 2,000 litre
insulated bulk tanka. However, no satisfactory provision has been
made to fill the tanks and the manual handling of filled churns (c.
45 kg) up a fixed ladder needs to be replaced by a stainless steel
pump and pipeline.
3.28     Milk collection at  VLAs.   The  largest  proportion  of  VLAs  are
situated away from all-weather roads although noticeable improvements of
rural roads are currently being implemented. Prior to the project, only
about 20% of milk produced would be marketed through a traditional system of
collectors and middlemen.
3.29     Most of the VLA members will, over a period, supply some  milk  but
on any one day only 25-50% of members bring milk in their own small
containers. VLA members also collect milk from relatives or friends who do
not belong to the associations. Thus the VLAs are in the process of marrying
into the traditional collector system and this should be encouraged. Only
morning milk is collected although plans are underway to collect evening
milk as well.
<5> The cream separators have subsequently been converted to clarifiers
by fitting necessary attachments.
<6> Action is underway to rectify these problems.



-ll-
3.30     The chairman  and/or  the  secretary  supervise  the  recording  of
quantity of milk and the butter fat test. Milk is then bulked in 37 kg
capacity insulated milk churns and transported to a collection poirit.
Pending  completion  of  the  chilling centres, milk is collected by the UMP
tankers and ice is put into the milk in the traditional way for cooling.
Record keeping appeared to be very good and it is perhaps significant that
in the VLAs visited, there had been few changes of chairman or secretary.
The VLA officers met gave a good impression of dedication to the alms of the
VLAs and their members.
3.31     Chilling centres. Only about 95 VLAs actually collect milk and  for
the purpose of providing extension advice and associated support services,
they have been grouped in clusters of 10-12 under the responsibility of an
extension worker. These extension-offices also3 act as collecting points for
the bulk milk from their cluster of VLAs. Ideally, each of these eight
collecting points should have the capacity to chill the bulked milk but with
the reduced number of VLAs and quantity of milk, such development was not
viable. The only chilling centre existing at the start of the project was
later seriously damaged in a storm and required major repairs.
3.32     Consultants hired by the PLB were requested in  February,  1984  to
review existing proposals and specifications for chilling centres, to advise
on selection of contractors, specification of materials and methods of
construction; to evaluate tenders received and supervise the construction
and installation of equipment for up to four chilling centres. Logistics of
milk collection methods were specifically excluded from the consultants'
task.
3.33     The consultants concluded that insufficient  funds  were  available
(USS500,000) to build four new chilling centres (US$188,000 each). PLB
therefore decided that only two new chilling centres would be built and the
remaining funds would be used to repair and refurbish the existing damaged
chilling centre. Excellent sites were selected and acquired by PLO for the
new centres and by early 1986 the LMP will have three centres each with a
ca8acity of 10,000 litres. These are expected to cool filtered milk from
40 C to 4 C at a rate of 5,000 litres/hour. Standby generators have been
included in the plans. After cooling, the milk will pass into two chilled
5,000  litre capacity insulated storage tanks to await collection by the LMP
Insulated bulk tanker lorries of 9,000 litre capacity, for transport to the
UMP. The distances of the chilling centres from the LMP are 70, 85 and 110
km.
3.34     The total expected chilling centre capacity of 3  x  10,00   litres
will provide less than half the daily intake of chilled milk required for
operation of the LMP at full capacity. These three chilling centres should
have  been  comimssioned  in  June  1984  when  the LMP began commercial UNT
production. The delay in completing them"has undoubtedly affected adversely
the planned development of milk collection and processing. The expenditure
on purchase of ice to chill the milk would have been avoided and the
investment in 9,000 litre tanker lorries would have been utilised earlier.
3.35     If  the  milk  plant  component  of  the  project  is  to  be fully
developed and reach higher capacity utilisait1n, evening &ilk will hve to be
collected and this will require further investment for wori chilling centres. <7>
The proposal by LMP to utilise the large tanker trucks for holding chilled
milk can only be regarded as a temporary expedient.
<7> Action is being taken to further invest in more chilling centers.



-12-
Education in Livestock Production
3.36     Implementation of this component was  not  started  until  1983/84.
Nevertheless, great efforts have been made to make effective use of the
funds available. Benefits will only become apparent from 1986 onwards when
the livestock technicians trained under the new curriculum will complete
their training.
3.37     The new curriculum, which was implemented from  1984,  provides  an
intensive 12-months training covering animal management, reproduction,
feeding, fodder production and conservation, range management, animal health
control and elementary surgical procedures. An intensive course of this type
requires very careful selection of trainees if maximum benefit is to be
attained, but technicians successfully completing such a course will provide
a useful and important strengthening of the livestock extension service.
Currently. there are 135 trainees and those successful can expect to be
employed by POLD which has posts available.
3.38     This component also provided funds for improvement of buildings and
purchase of new equipment. Some 60% of the funds for buildings were utilised
for erectirng 5 bull pens, a loose housing building and courtyard for cattle,
and  a  small  laboratory.  These  facilities  were  required  to strengthen
teaching and research in animal reproduction and artificial insemination.
The  remaining  40%  of  the  building  funds were spent on refurbishing and
improvement of facilities in seven sections of the college. Some US$180,000
was spent on laboratcry and veterinary equipment.
3.39     The  delay  in  implementing  this component must be related to the
repeated changes in Managing Director of the PLB.. If the training of
livestock technicians had been implemented sooner, the new trainees could
have helped to ensure technical support for the VLAs. Nevertheless, the
assistance to the College of Veterinary Sciences has been well utilised and
must be regarded as a useful medium-term investment.
Artificial Insemination
3.40     Intensification of Al for the buffalo and cattle of the VLA members
was an essential component of the project. The Directorate of Animal
Production,  Extension  and  Artificial  Insemination  of  POLD  had already
received assistance via FAO/UNDP during the period 1975/80 with provision of
expertise and some US$750,000 of equipment. During this period the use of
deep frozen semen in straws was introduced and semen production from
indigenous buffalo and cattle lncreased. This Directorate was therefore well
prepared to intensify operations.
3.41     The project had initally proposed the setting up  of  a  new  semen
production unit at Sheikhupura in the project area. To avoid duplication of
buildings, equipment and professional staff, it was decided that the project
would fund new buildings and equipment on the site of the existing semen
production unit at Quadirabad some 120 miles south of Lahore or 150 miles
from the project area. Accordingly a new laboratory, with additional
equipment, three rows of bull pens each with a capacity of 40 bulls, and
staff houses were erected.



-13-
3.42     The buildings were completed and handed over in mid-1983.  Although
the staff housing has been partly ocrupied (1 x 3-room, 6 x 2-room and 15
single room houses) and the 120 bull pens are being utilised, the laboratory
and semen processing facilities had not yet been used by November 1985. The
non-utilisation of the laboratory was due to the omission of certain
essential items from the original Government PC-1 (see para 3.2) and the
approved contract. The Department is now in the process of rectifying these
deficiencies and the facilities are expected to be used in 1986.
3.43     Provision  of Al to the buffalo and cattle owned by the VLA members
has not proved as effective as was envisaged in the original project (see
Annex 2, Table 4). In fact, no intensification of Al services has taken
place within the project area. This was due to the fact that:
- the number and density of VLAs (para 3.13) was much less than
envisaged;
- there was confusion as to who was responsible for the insemination
of VLA livestock. A number of VLA secretaries received some related
training, but this was Incomplete in respect of Alt,
3.44      The Directorate of Livestock Production, Extension and Artificial
Insemination received the new buildings and equipment, without making
proper use of the created facilities. Delays and indecisions were
partly caused by the transfer of PDLD's livestock production extension
and At services to the Directorate General of Extension. <8>
3.45     The investment made by the project in strenghtening Al services has
had little impact on the project but can be expected to assist livestock
development in the Punjab province in the future.
Land Use Mapping
3.46     Except for a delay of about 6 months in the supply of topographical
sheets by the Survey Department of Pakistan to World Bank, there were no
major constraints in the production and completion of the land use/land
cover map at scale 1:100,000 for Sheikhupur district by 1981. However, the
Soil Survey of Pakistan remains sceptical of the need for a land use map
based on Landsat data in order to assess the development potential of a
farming system where small-scale, mixed cropping is predominant. That
authority has also found a number of irregularities in the new land-use map,
and it appears doubtful whether this map will be useful for agricultural and
livestock development.
<8> Efforts are now being made to increase the coverage for provision
of AI services to farmers in the VLA areas.



-14-
E. Consultants and Contractors
Consultancy Services
3.47     Out, of the 20 man-years of consultancy services provided under  the
project, some 16 man-years were utilised. The shortfall is due to the
exclusion of the foot and mouth disease vaccine production, slaughterhouse
and research components for which consultancy services had also been made
available. Of the consultancy services utilised by the project, about 63%
were for the Lahore milk plant and 32% for the AI centre at Quadirabad, the
remainder being for livestock education, training centre and preliminary
study of the slaughterhouse.
3.48     The performance of consultants varied widely. According to the PLB,
the consultancy provided for planning, designing and supervising the
construction of the Lahore milk plant and of the chilling centres has been
less satisfactory in that the design of some components and selection of
equipment could have been more carefully carried out (para 3.27). With
regard to the construction of chilling centres, PLB has expressed its
dissatisfaction by pointing out that the consultants have not provided the
agreed number of visits for supervision of construction and installation of
equipment.
3.49     In   addition,  the  Lahore  milk  plant  was  also  provided  with
consultancy services for three resident experts in production, marketing and
financial administration. The services provided by these consultants were
satisfactory although the marketing expert had to leave before his contract
expired for personal reasons (utilised 5 out of 24 man-months) and was not
replaced. The performance of the other consultants employed for the AI
centre and in the livestock education component were satisfactory.
3.50     The  consultancy  services  provided  for  the planning, design and
supervision of the slaughterhouse component have created serious and still
pendirij problems. The contract for the consultancy was signed in April 1979
and after the preliminary design study was prepared, the slaughterhouse
component was deleted from the project following the August 1979 review.
Government, therefore terminated the contract for this consultancy. As the
two parties did not agree on settling payment of the consultancy services,
claims and damages of both were put to arbitration. The arbitration decision
was not acceptable to the consultants and the case is now still being dealt
with in a civil court.
Contractors
3.51     The  civil  works  of the project were carried out by local private
contractors and the quality of work has been generally satisfactory.
However, some water leakage in the walls was observed in several buildings
of the Sheikhupura training centre. Delays by contractors were also
experienced in the completion of the buildings for the College of Veterinary
Science, -Lahore.



-15-
3.52     The  services  of  the  contractors  who  provided  machinery   and
equipment for the Lahore milk plant were satisfactory in that they provided
what  was  required  of  them  according  to  the  contract.  However,   the
difficulties mentioned in para 3.27 could have been minimised had the
contractors critically looked into the specification and given their
comments.
F. Project Costs
3.53     The total expenditures on the project are PRs128.4 million (USS10.8
million), compared with the appraisal estimates of PRsl95 million (US$19.7
million). The principal reason for the lower cost is the reduction of the
project's  scope  following  the  1979  review  (para  3.3).  The   excluded
components accounted for about 60% of the costs estimated at appraisal. Due
to delays in implementation and the resulting escalation of costs, however,
final project costs were about 66% in PRs terms and 55% in US dollar terms
of the appraisal estimates.  The  latter  percentage  is  lower  because  of
savings made in US$ by the project as the result of the devaluation of the
PRs during the last few years.
3.54     Details of annual project expenditures are shown in Annex 1.  Table
1 and the comparison between appraisal and actual costs is summarised in
Annex 1, Table 2. About 60% of total project costs were absorbed by the
Lahore milk plant, which according to appraisal estimates was expected to
represent only 22% of total costs. The Increase in costs of the plant is due
to the underestimation of costs during appraisal and also due to price
escalation as a result of excessive delays in Implementation. Also the VLA
development proved to be much more costly (US$9,233 each) than estimated at
appraisal (US$800 each) as shown in Annex 1, Table 2.
G. Disbursement
3.55     Out of  the  loan  of  US$10  million,  about  US$7.2  million  was
disbursed   up   to   September  1985.  Present  estimates  are  that  total
disbursement will amount to US$8.4 million after the completion of all the
works already committed. Because of the slow implementation and successive
modification of the project, disbursement was exceptionally slow. At
appraisal, full disbursement was envisaged to take place by Fiscal Year
1981. However, disbursement in that year was only 2% of the appraisal
estimate (Annex 1, Table 3). Disbursement lagged so far behind that
commitment charges paid up to January  1981  were  more  than  eisbursement,
being US$0.3 million and US$0.2 million respectively. Disbursement suddenly
shot up to 40% in 1983 when project works on the milk plant started
progressing. <9>
<9> Final disbursement was US$ 8.348 million.



-16-
H. Procurement
3.56     Procurement was the responsibility of the implementing agencies for
their specific components. Procurement of AI equipment by the PDLD was
carried out satisfactorily. The procurement of laboratory equipment under
ICB by the College of Veterinary Services, however, experienced difficulties
because the contractor failed to provide spare parts and accessories mainly
due to misunderstandings by the r*%ntractor of what the accessories entailed.
The matter is now being remedied. he PLB has also faced some difficulties
in  the  procurement  under  ICB in that commissioning of the milk plant was
delayed due to late arrival of key plant equipment, including the UHT plant
control panel.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
General
4.1      The   overall  performance  of  institutions  involved  in  project
implementation was less satisfactory than anticipated. Major problems were
created by the over-emphasized reliance for project implementation on PLB.
The excessive prominence placed on PLB as an institution outside the line
departments,   has  been  resented  by  line  departments  and  caused  some
rivalries. It should have been realised from the outset that PLB, as a board
created and controlled by GOPu, could not operate efficiently without the
collaboration of the line aqencies such as the PDLD, the Department of
Planning and Development and the Department of Finance. Although these
departments were represented on the Project Coordination Committee, they
were not sufficiently involved in the formulation of the project's concept.
Support to the project from the main departments was therefore uniform and
not strong enough to overcome the project's teething problems.
4.2      The  lack  of  enthusiasm  for the project was clearly demonstrated
during the processing of the PC-1. Initially, delays were due to procedural
reasons but later, questions raised about the viability and scope of some
project components were already an indication of disagreement between key
project authorities (para 3.2). A further confirmation of this state of
affairs was the excessive delay encountered in enacting  the  new  law  that
established the VLAs; in the appointment of consultants for the milk plant;
and in awarding the contract for the plant's construction after the project
had been revised. Also, the frequent change of managing directors of the PLB
was a symptom of this authority's difficulties in obtaining the essential
support from other Government departments.
Project Coordination Committee
4.3      The Project Coordination Committee has not been able to remove  the
major bottlenecks during the project's crisis period. It has also not
succeeded in bringing about continuity in PLB management or integration of
the various components. The meetings of the PCC were, in fact, stopped in
1981 after seven meetings between June 1977 and January 1981.



-17-
Implementing Agencies
4.4      PLB. Frequent changes in the management of PLB have resulted  in  a
lack of commitment by incumbents who considered their future uncertain. This
was inevitably also reflected in staff morale. In addition, it was not
possible when appointing PLB managing staff, to take sufficient account of
the  incumbent's  managerial/commercial  capacity.  This  was   particularly
serious  as PLB, having been established only in 1974, had little management
experience and was already responsible for a range of other activities such
as   slaughterhouse   operations,   meat   marketing,   poultry  production,
development of feed mills and management of farms operated by tenants. All
this resulted in less satisfactory performance of PLB in the implementation
of this project than had been expected at appraisal.
4.5      Also, the performance of POLD was less than anticipated. Veterinary
and production extension support to VLAs was not uniform and remained
unreliable; the Al programme had not started at the end of the project. PDL0
has continued its work programes in other parts of the province and not
been  able  to  build  up  the  additional   services   to   discharge   its
responsibilities in the project area in a satisfactory manner.
4.6      The  University  of Agriculture, College of Veterinary Sciences has
not implemented its livestock education component on schedule, apparently
due to lack of awareness of the availability of funds. This is a further
reflection of the weakness of the PCC.
4.7      Lahore milk plant.  The Lahore milk plant, established in 1967 with
assistance from UNICEF and operating under the guidance of the Lahore Milk
Board, was transferred to PLB. Facilities were modified and expanded under
the project, which also provided for the plant to operate as a subsidiary
corporation in which an equity participation of the VLAs was sought to be
encouraged. The corporation was to be established according to the Company
Law of Pakistan, as a largely farmer directed organization, providing the
institutional framework for milk collection, processing and marketing. For
this purpose, a firm of chartered accountants was engaged to undertake a
comprehensive study 'on the subject of *Lahore Milk Plant - Capital
Restructuring and Financing into a Dairy Corporation Under the Companies
Act". The study has been completed in April 1984. Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the new company - Punjab Dairy Corporation Ltd. -  Gave  also
been drawn up. Other formalities to form the new company remain to be done. <10>
Accounting and Reporting
4.8      Auditing of PLB accounts was consistently lagging behind  schedule.
It was  reported  that  the  public-auditors lacked staff and experience in
handling commercial audits. The July*-1979, World Bank review mission
proposed to have auditing of PLB accounts carried out by private chartered
accountants. This was not accepted and the problem of delayed submission of
annual audited accounts persisted throughout the implementation period.
4.9      PLB  was  required  to  produce  a  combined  progress  report each
quarter. The format of the report was agreed with the World Bank. Hcwever,
only  three  reports  have been submitted by PLB to the World Bank and these
have not followed the agreed format.
<10>  The Corporation commenced business on September 1986.



-18-
Compliance with Covenants
4.10     The main covenants have been complied with, even though delays have
been encountered in most cases. PLB has engaged a firm of chartered
accountants to help establish the Milk Corporation which Is expected to
become operational from January 1986. Audit reports were submitted for
all project years except 1985.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Incremental Production
5.1      Owing to the reduction of VLAs from 500 to 150 and to only about 95
active VLAs, only minimal incremental increase in production has been
achieved and this is insignificant on a national or provincial scale.
Nevertheless, within the villages with active VLAs, an increase in animal
nutmbers of 29% has been recorded while milk production is estimated to have
Increased by about 260 litres per association daily. Some 60% of this is
reported as saleable. A part of incremental production has certainly also
been brought about by the establishment during the project period of several
new private sector milk plants which stimulated the demand for milk.
Technological Chanae
5.2      The project has introduced a small number of VLA farmer families to
the concept of selling milk on the basis of quality (butter fat) and this
has been accepted as beneficial.
5.3      The  Al component had no significant effect because the Department
had already adopted deep frozen semen technology with FAO/UNDP assistance.
Furthermore,   the  facilities  and  equipment  provided  under  the  Punjab
Livestock Project have not yet been utilised.<11>
5.4      With regard to milk collection  and  processing,  the  project  has
enabled the PLB to keep pace with dairy development in Punjab. Without this
assistance, the existing milk plant would have had little or no possibility
of survival.
Social ImPact
5.5      The  project  was  expected  to. create  some  6,000  man-years  of
incremental labour per year at the farm level. The restricted number of VLAs
with an average membership of 53 (Annex 2, Table 2) places the project
between the Year 1 and Year 2 projections of expected increase in production
and thus the objective of incremental labour requirement has not been
achieved. Results of a survey of 144 VLAs carried out by the Field Service
Organization of the UMN in February 1985 suggest that in the project area
increases of 7% in livestock nIlbers, 19% in milk production and 26% in
saleable milk have taken place since the 1977/78 base year data were
collected. In 30 of the 144 VLAs surveyed, the number of animals kept was
reduced although production and sale of milk had increased.
<11> Now being utilised.



-19-
5.6      It is difficult to quantify the effects of the VLA milk  collection
on farmers' incomes since reliable information on pre-project incomes is
lacking. The position is further complicated by the.fact that the system has
been superimposed upon a traditional method of sale of milk to collectors.
Thus an unknown proportion of the increase in saleable milk could have been
diverted from this outlet. Finally, seasonal changes in milk supply and
therefore of the collectors' price make estimation more difficult. One
beneficial effect of the project as expressed by VLA staff and farmers was
the 'guaranteed' market outlet and the power to bargain with the traditional
milk collectors.
5.7      Some  indication  of  the effects on milk producers' incomes can be
gained from the estimated increase in saleable milk of about 15,000 litres
per day, although not all of this increase is sold to the UMP. At the
current purchase price based on fat content, this increased production is
worth PRs35,500 per day shared between some 8,000 families. This would be
equivalent to an average income of about PRs1,620 per member per year.
5.8      Another estimate is provided by the VLA at Bucheke with 50  members
which produced aod received the following milk and cash:
1982/83      1983/4         1984/85      1985/86
Litres of milk         422,767       216,963       556,691       392,096
Value:  (PRs)          783,918       458,056    1,258,726        802,125
SUSS  g        61,483        33,930        81,735        50,448
Per member (USS)         1,230           679         1,635         1,009
(PRs)       15,682         9,167        25,179        16,043
1/  Four months only.
-/ AdJusted to official exchange rate.
The VLA at Bucheke clearly has been an outstanding and untypical success but
the results attained Indicate the potential source of additional income from
dairying for smallholders.
5.9      Nevertheless, it must be recalled that at least 55 of the 150  VLAs
registered are not working and it is thought that of these 35 will never
work satisfactorily due to the distances, cost of transport and competition
with other buyers. If the defunct VLAs are subtracted (Annex 2, Table 2),
the project is benefitting only 6,178 member families.
5.10     The most significant social impact of the project has been to  make
good quality standardised milk with a long shelf life available throughout
major centres in Pakistan. The LMP is not the only participant in this
development but it seems that the trend towards the consumption of quality
processed milk will continue.



-20-
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Financial Performance
6.1      The  Lahore  Milk  Plant,  operating  under  the  PLB, has incurred
persistent net losses in all years except 1981/82 when it made a small net
profit of PRs214,000. In the first five years of its operation, sales
revenue could not even cover the cost of sales, resulting in gross losses
for those years (see Annex 3, Table 6). Main contributory factors have been
low capacity utilisation, and high manufacturing costs brought about by
excessive employment of factory labour. Net losses have also continued and
in line with gross losses, shown a declining trend. The net loss in 1975/76
was PRs4 million, peaking at PRs4.2 million in 1977/78 falling to PRs3.9
million in 1978/79 and declining thereafter sharply to reach PRsO.7 million
in 1983/84 following reduction in factory labour and higher capacity
utilisation. At the end of 1983/84, accumulated losses amounted to PRs22
million (Annex 3, Table 5). As a result, the net assets have almost been
halved from PRs6.6 million in 1975/76 to PRs3.5 million in 1983/84.
Unaudited accounts for 1984/85 reveal a net profit of PRs5.1 million. This
is expected to improve with the completion of the remodelling of the plant.
Operating surpluses (net of depreciation and interest) are projected as
follows (see Annex 3, Table 8):
1984/85                       PRs 424,000
1985/86                       PRs  2.7 million
1986/87                       PRs 17.6    n
1987/88                       PRs 18.6    n
1988/89                      PRs 23.2    a
1989/90 to 2004/2005          PRs 26.3    "
6.2      Due  to  financial  and  other  difficulties, the milk plant cannot
continue to operate within its capital structure and the book value of
assets and liabilities. A proposal has therefore been made to reorganise the
LMP, which entails the incorporation, under the Companies Act 1913, of a new
corporation - Punjab Dairy Corporation Ltd. - to take over the entire assets
and liabilities of the LMP and the field service organization component of
the PLP based at Sheikhupura. For the purpose of the take-over, the assets
and liabilities have been valued by a recognised firm of chartered
accountants. The bases of valuation and the assumptions used in the
verification of assets and valuation are given in the Accountants' report.
42> The net assets so arrived at 31.1.84.<13> amounted to PRs114.9 million,
made up as follows:
<12>     Report on Lahore Milk Plant - Capital Restructuring and Financing
into a Dairy Corporation Under the Companies Act 1913, April 1984 -
Taseer Hadi Khalid & Co., Chartered Accountants, Pakistan.
<13>     Cut-off date for purposes of valuation.



-21-
PRsI 000
Fixed Assets                                     28,208
Capital work in progress                         72,439
Total Fixed Assets                           100,647
Current Assets                      26,396
Less current liabilities        11,398
Net Current Assets (working capital)             14,998
Total Assets                                    115,645
Less deferred liability for gratuity                746
. 8=M =MU
Net Assets                                   114,899
6.3      The new corporation would need to invest a sum of PRsl00 million in
fixed assets and PRs14.9 million in net current assets, making a total
investment of PRsMU4.M million when it takes over LMP and FS0. The financial
profitability of this operation is ascertained by calculating FRR on this
investment. Based on the assumptions detailed below, FRR of 15% is expected
(see Annex 3, Table 8):
i) Life of the project is 20 years; residual value of fixed assets at
the end of 20 years at 10% is PRslO million; a fixed amount of
PRs5.7 million has been included for replacement investment costs.
ii) Working capital for Year 1 (derived from Accountant's report),
computed as a percentage of gross revenues at full operation would
be 12%. Applying this to revenues of other years, incremental
working capital is calculated and recovered in Year 20.
Iii) Assumptions on sales and costs are detailed in Annex 3, Table 7.
Pre-incorporation and formation expenses have not been included as
these figures are not available and the amounts will not be
material.
iv) Since expansion and remodelling had not been completed by 31.1.84,
when valuation was done, capital expenditure in the intervening
period is not included in the investment cost of PRs114.9 million.
v) As a new public company, Punjab Dairy Corporation Ltd. would
consider the investment in assets through take-over as its own
initial investment. Revenues and costs arising from this are
therefore all incremental and are attributed to this investment.
6.4      It should be emphasized here that the financial  result  is  rather
sensitive to changes in the expected sales revenue. Switching values show
that a decrease of 9% in the sales revenue of UHT milk would lower the rate
of return from 15% to 10%, as would a 10% increase of operating costs.



-22-
Economic Performance
6.5      An economic re-evaluation has been carried out for the  project  in
which only milk benefits from the projected operations of the milk plant
have been attributed to the project. However, the entire project costs
incurred since 1977/78 have been set against the above benefits. Financial
costs have been adjusted to reflect their economic values by deducting taxes
and duties and local costs have been brought to border prices by using a
standard conversion factor of 0.8. All costs and benefits are expressed in
1985 constant prices using a deflator based on the consumer price index. <14>
6.6      On  the  basis  of  the  above, the economic rate of return for the
project is estimated at 9% (see Annex 3, Table 9). This is considerably
lower than was estimated at appraisal. However, the two estimates are not
comparable because the project was significantly changed after the exclusion
of several components.
VII. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Desin and Appraisal
7.1      The project concept of assisting livestock farmers by providing  an
extension service, organizing them into VLAs and ensuring market outlets for
the milk and meat produced was sound. It was, however, optimistic to assume
that a young and inexperienced institution like PLB would be able to carry
out implementation of all components related to VLAs, milk plant and
slaughterhouse during a four year project. A more critical examination of
PLB should have been made at appraisal in order to assess its implementation
capacity and autonomy in decision making. This would have cautioned the
appraisal mission from overloading the project with too many components. The
prominence of PLB in the project was undesirable in retrospect as this
caused resentment by line departments and created departmental rivalries. In
the absence of sufficiently unbiased studies, the appraisal mission also
arrived at too optimistic conclusions concerning the viability of the
slaughterhouse and the export of buffalo meat. It is also not clear why a
Landsat survey was recommended for an area which is well surveyed like
Sheikhupura district.
Supervision
7.2      A total of 14 supervision missions have visited Pakistan during the
implementation period. In the first two years after credit effectiveness,
the missions tried to bring about a smooth start but they were unable to
convince the authorities to approve the PC-1. Their efforts in overcoming
initial-difficulties were commendable as was their request for review of the
project in 1979 when it became clear that significant changes in project
design would be required. The subsequent exclusion of four components was
appropriate. This has made the project more manageable. After the review and
modification of the project, all supervision missions were geared towards
<14>     The following deflators have been derived from GOP released
statistics on consumer price indices and are: 0.52, 0.56, 0.62,
0.70, 0.76, 0.81, 0.86, 0.93 and 100% for the period 1977/78 to
1985186 respectively.



-23-
expediting implementation. Lengthy procedures and reduced commntment by GOPu
have, however, slowed down project implementation. Reminders and suggestions
by the supervision missions did not bring about essential changes. The Bank
has actually not taken a forceful position, even when covenants such as need
for reporting, submitting accounts and establishing the Milk Corporation
were not complied with as agreed at appraisal and project reformulation. The
frequency  of the supervision missions can be considered adequate except for
1982 when no formal supervision mission was sent.
VIII. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
8.1      The project aimed at introducing new approaches to the  production,
processing and marketing of meat and milk, ensuring incentives to small
farmers in the province of Punjab. It was thought that results would
encourage further projects in other provinces.
8.2      The  original  project  consisted of numerous components (para 2.5)
and insufficient attention was given to their coordination. PL8, a young
institution, had major implementation responsibility not only for commercial
undertakings, such as the milk plant and slaughterhouse, but also for non-
commercial programmes such as establishing VLAs and training VLA staff. All
rather complex project components were envisaged to be planned and executed
within four years which was unrealistic and over-ambitious considering that
PLB had been set up only three years earlier and become involved in a large
development programme including slaughterhouse operations, meat marketing,
poultry production, feed milling and management of land reform farms.
8.3      The  project  commenced  at  the   time   of   a   new   Government
administration. This affected progress of the project because administrative
departments had to deal with changed and new development priorities.
Nevertheless, the start in 1977 appeared highly promising. However, initial
enthusiasm faded away, the authorities could not agree on initial budgets,
and project implementation was seriously delayed. After about two years of
inactivity, the project had to be reviewed by GOP, GOPu and the World Bank.
This review resulted in the exclusion of four components, foot and mouth
disease  vaccine  production,   livestock   research,   slaughterhouse   and
development of PLB tenant farms. The core of the project therefore became
development of VLAs and milk collection, processing and marketing.
8.4      In  spite  of  the  reduced  size  and  scope   of   the   project,
implementation did not progress as expected. Much time was taken to appoint
consultants and to award contracts for the milk plant. In the meantime, the
project had proceeded in establishing VLAs although milk could not be
procured from all of them until the milk plant was rehabilitated.
8.5      The project required strong, dynamic and skilled management as well
as collaboration and good coordination among the different implementing
agencies. However, the management of PLB suffered from frequent changes and
coordination among implementing agencies remained weak. The AI programme of
PDLD, for instance, was not implemented in the proJect area as PDLD was
operating in other districts. Also the Agricultural University, College of
Veterinary Sciences remained unaware until late that it had responsibility
for the implementation of a component of education in livestock production.



-24-
8.6      Overall, the  project  has  not  met  its  original  objectives  of
improving livestock production and the incomes of a large number of farm
families in the district of Sheikhupura. However, it has created a nucleus
of functioning VLAs which could be the basis for further development. The
project has also strengthened the Al service in Punjab through the provision
of buildings and equipment which will be useful in future. Likewise, it has
provided improved facilities and laboratory equipment to the College of
Veterinary Sciences which can increase the training standard of stock
assistants in the province and assist provision of extension advice to VLAs.
Lessons Learned
8.7      The  following  are the main lessons that could be learned from the
experience of this project:
- Particular -.tention should be paid during project formulation to
limiting the number of components to those strictly necessary for
attaining the project's main objectives, and temptations to address
all problems simultaneously in order to satisfy aspirations of
Government officials should be resisted.
- A critical examination is required at appraisal of the designated
executing    agencies'    existing    and    planned   comuitments,
organizational structure, modus operandi and staff capabilities in
order to assess their implementation capacity.
- It is unrealistic to expect a successful commercial undertaking
emerging in a situation where management lacks autonomy in decision
making.
- Frequent change in the management of the project and excessive
delay in taking decisions may be signs of wavering commitment to a
project; supervision missions need to resolve the underlying cause
in their dialogue with Government.
- Establishing the product mix of a milk plant needs to be based on
detailed knowlejige of the market requirements. This, in turn,
requires a market study or survey.
- The Bank, through its supervision activities, should at least be
able to make certain that project actions go in the right sequence.
Oeveiopment of VLAs before  LMP  and  purchase  of  tankers  before
establishment  of  chilling centres should not have been allowed to
happen.
- Purchasing policy of a producer-oriented enterprise like LMP should
allow for collection of all milk offered by the farmer regardless
of quantities in supply. This would build up farmer confidence in
the   system,   so   essential  an  incentive  for  increased  milk
production. Pricing policy must, however, be adjusted to take
account of cheaper imported raw materials for reconstitution, cost
structure of LMP and competitors' prices. Where the resulting
decision entails financial losses to LMP, such losses must be made
good by the Government.



PUNa   IVt  tOK )EOIC
Annual  feo tOeS tt _Su..
VLA  De.010w0o.n                     .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  (aS    000)   .........   .  ....  .....  .
5fljJrbhi-d Tpm. a.d VLA
Mauchinery *nd equipment              127        12S       269       200       Isa      236       -         -         -        1.122
,raining                              420        538       S5S      543       355       395       120                          2.935
working capital VL^*                  -           40        oO       140       54       156       -                   -          4b0
Stott *nd overhead costs              223        02        793       797      S51       S60       *42       _         _        5.114
Sub-tot-l                 1Q~~~~~~~ t-232    I-ga      I-e      t a    2   ^  A6t    1 071      _         _        S24
±1
Extenslon Sarvica
civ wtorkS                            --                   237       -        -         -         -         -         -          23?
Machinery sed eq..ipment                          1s      222       170                 tto        40       -        -          So0
ste r* nd overhead costs              -          175       142    1,030       773    1.217    1.303         -         -        4.729
ZUIL±ftL*1                      152      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ml    105 Z    1.22Z    1A,   23L
Civtl works                             -                    -         -      4,5S      5.609        -        --                10.46
Machinery and equipment                 -          -                             -      4.100       450       -         - *.5S5
Conaultancy services                    -          -         115       300       -          37       SIO      -         -            io,
Outy and taxes                          -          -         -         -         -         -      2.500       -         -        2.S00
Sun-total                                              JAR       am*    d-.ks    0M          3J1I        -         -      LL.47
vi,eatgck EducatiOn
Civi  works                             -          -         -         -         -         -        65        -         -          660
Laboratory *uiPa..t                     -          --                            -         -        200    2.460        300      2.9s0
Conu nltcncy service>                   -                               " 150  150  -      -         -        -         -          300
Outy and tases                                     -         -         -         -         -         500      -         -          boo
Sub-total                                              _ _2 11                         _    1.31    L4 4;                1
Consultancy *orvic-s                    -          ala       -         -         -         -        -         -                    12Q
MSik Plant
Civil works                             -          -         -         -         -      2.743        40       -         -        3.693
Machinery and equipment        _-                                      -     27*916   15.032   10.223    7.602    2.300    43.S73
Consultancy services                    -                    b 6OO     370        10       750    5.605       -         -        7.325
FeIows1P--ip                                                                     -         -        700       -         -          tO
Duty and to.**                          -          -         -         -                3.0O    1.000        -         -        4.000
IMZI4IA                            - ug2                                     11 I                      1.501,   209           20.2I
TraAinn Contre
Clvii wrks                              --                 2.000    2.30? 7                         '                            4.387
Machinery and equipment                 -          -         -         760       GOJ       -         -        -         -        I.454
Cons..ltncy services                               200       -         -         -                                                 200
Stoft and ovorhb-d costs                t3J        143       340      S2U        574      800       330       -         -        3.209
Land-at Survey
Purchass of imagery and ground          2QQ        -         _        .l3        -        -         -         _         _12
trutiling
ProleSt Coordination
Offtic  *quipment                       -           *0       -         -         -         -        -         -         -            to                    b  Z
Staff and ovorh-ad cOsta                 37        137       136       17S       141        04       IS       -         -          J29                     r Z
AMIZDIA1az                          JAZ       ±11       J.Mii                i         i                              i
Sub-totel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 3'>4 
TO^IA                                 1,144      2.*00    5521    7,740   36.103   36,304   26.065   10.602    2.000   126.370                               _
*a-.-     w*s       s*,* asse  cme      - "ass,       *     -0CC    050 - ** -*    *5S   S*-- "s
l/  1694-85 and 196S-80 *Ctivitt110 have VOa Incoueoratad and ceotd la the ev*rett  epartment-al 6"udt.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Comoarison Bet"oon Anoraisal Coat Estimates and Actual Expenditures
Prolect Comoonents                                  Aonraisal Eltimates                                    Actual Exoenditures    if
(Rs '000)         (USS '000)                          (Rs '000)          (uSS  000)
VLA development                                    4,020                400                              tS.tSO              1.385
FltU  vaccine                                     20.760              2.100                                -                   -
Al service                                         3.860                390                              18.147              1.494
Livestock r-esarch                                 4.600                460                                -                   -
Livestock education                                8.300                840                               4.430                312
Slaughterhouse                                    43.170              4.370         S                       890                 90
Milk plant                                        28,730              2.910                              79.291              6.479         1
PLO farms                                         10,160              1,030                                -                   -           C%
PLO training centre                                5,920                S90                               9.250                6a9
Lendsat survey                                     1,000                too                                 373                 38
Project coordination                                -                  -                                    839                 79
Contingencies, taxes and duties                   64,460              6.510                                -
TOTAL                                            195-000             19700                              128.370             10.
.L  Average annual exchange rates used are:  US$1.00 to PRs9.90 for the period up to 1980/81:  PRsO.5SS for 1981f82;
PRst2.75 for 1982/83: PRs13.50 for 1963/84t PRs1S.24 for 1984865 and PRs1S.90 for 1985/86.
'  



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT -
(LN 1366T-°AK)
Disbursement of Lgan
(USS million)
Fiscal Vear                                      Aporaisal Estimate                               Actual
Annual              Cumulative               Annual             CumuIative
1978                                      1.3                    1.3                    0                     0
1979                                      2.6                    3.9                   0.1                   0.1
So80                                      4.G                    7.9                   0.1                   0.2
1981                                      2.1                   10.0                    0                    0.2
1982                                       -                      -                     0                    0.2
1983                                                                                   3.9                   4.1
1984                                                                                    1.7                  6.8
1985                                       -                      -                     1.0                  6.8
Sept 1985                                   -                     -                     0.4                  7.2
June 1986                                                                               1.1                  8.3                    
v-tn



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Staff Emoloved by Puniab Livestock Board
Post              Field Services Ornanization    Post                    TraininQ School        Post              In  'ProDosed'
In Post     Vacant                                 In Pos-t  Vacant                       post
Management                      3           -         Principal                    1             Management            -        7
Administration       10       17
Administration                  6           1         Lecturers                    5        -     Security              mi
Cleaning             11       2/
Finance                        14          3          Technicians                  3        3     Accounts              9       10
Stores                5       S
Extension                      16          4          Administration               7        3     Engineering          23       31
Procurement          16      43
Spe-r-head teams               30          11         Hostel                       2        1     Processing           37       59
1/                                                                        Ouality control       9        a
Other supporting staff         24          U          Other supporting staff       7        4     Marketing             19      24
_       -       Transport            17       2i
Total                      93          33                                      25       It                         167      226
==         =5                                      as1      =5==                                 S
Source: Punjab Livestock Board. November 1985.
I/ Office boys. guards. gardeners.
I, Oistributed into other sections.
Z
c-rn
i )C



PAKI STAN
PUNJAO LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LH 1366 T-PAK)
Annual Raoistration of VLAse
Shei kuoura                 Ohara                         Kasur                     Total
Year             VLA'      MemberA's                    embei s           A'Lrs    Members          VLA's      meIQaers
It91                2           218           -            -               -          -                2          218
1900                4           210           -           -                -          -                4          210
%D
I
191               51        2,608            -            -               -          -               51        2.608
1982               49         2.450            6           35S             -           -              5S        2.805  -
1983                16          800           12          645              7         407              35        1.852
1984                -             -            2           130             1          105              3          235
19g85-----                                                                                                        -
Total              122        6.286           20         1.130             a         512             150        7.928
Source:  Punjab Livestock 0o0rd.                                                                                                     m
ER NC



PAKISTAN
PUNJAD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(ALN 1366T-PAK)
Sumarv of ProjeCt Training at PLO Contra
Trainee Numbers              Trafi. _Nmybers
Course             Duration               FrequencyProtaus             p     td                       Actal
EJJ         VLA spearhead       10 woeks per team    Two course  in year        4 teams each of tS           2 teams ot 17
Teams (includes   at inauguration of   one and two.
initial eaten-    team.
*iun staff).
VLA spesrhead      Ono week               Twic, per year            3 teams each of 1t           2 teams of 17
Team Refresher
Course.
Dairy and m-et    Ad hoc                  Twice per year            All senior plant
processing.                                                         s*tff 
Overseas           2-3 months             Ad hoc                    12 key PL6 and               3 PLB staff
Fl lowships                                                         Ministry Staff
YL&A        VLA Staff          a weeks at             4 courses per year        2 staff from each            2 courses of 6 months
appointment                                     VLA maximum 30               32 + 26 trainees.
trainees per course
240 per year.
VLA Staff          Ono weak once          4 courses/year            Same as above
I Refresher Course  a year
VLA Management    4 days once             4 courses/year            2 to 3 members
Committee          a year                                           from each VLA por
30 trainees pOr
course.
Exten-ion  Villge Ext-n-    One day par              24 times/year             32 VEW Staff one             40 lecturers
s1in Workers       fortnight,                                       day per week.                20 VEW staff
(VEW).
Route Extension   10 weeka                To supplement VLA spOarhead teams as required. e*xtnsion training as
az



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAM)
Artificial Insemination of Buffalo and Cattlg
1978/Ot       1979/80      1980/81     19§1/02      1982/83      19.a384      1984/85
Doses of semen produced            111,482      194.082      212,683      227.700      235,137      313.365      480,001
Inseminations:  Punjab              96.144      133.639      173,777      200.046      214.651      243.129      290.876
5*
Project Area            -        3,210        4,379        4.887        5.874        7,937         n.-.
Percentage in project ores                          2.4          2.S          2.4          2.7          3.3
Sources: *    Directorate of Livestock Production Extension and Artificial Insemination. Lahore.
**   Punjab Livestock Board.
Ii



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Sources of Milk PfoLusement - Laliore Milk Plant
Average Daily Raw Milk Receipts
(litres)
Financial Year                 VLAs              'Private'          Total        Percent VLA
1980/81                     3.925               1.610            5.535              71
1981/82                     3.174              3.135             6.309             50
1982/83                     5.410                 220            5.630             96
1983/84                     3,879                 239            4,1118            94
1984/85                     5.206              9.791            14.997             35
Source% Project Director, Lahore Milk Planc.
tJ Z
a.z



2
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Summary of Outout of Milk Plant 1984-85 Followina Rehabilitation
Month                Litres of UtIT milk in Tetrabaks           Total Litres            uutterK8S-
1984                   (0.5 I)               (0.25 11
July                       326.362                    -                326.362                   303
August                     459.186                    -                459.186                   697
September                 538.884                    -                 538.884                 Z 198
October                    577,600                    -                577.600                 1,203
November                   592.020                    -                592.020                 5.130 
December                   588.190               21.559                609.749                10.048                 w
1984
January                    592.371               35.743                628.114                tl.O85
February                   505.188               33.894                539.082                 9.399
March                      457.632               66.324                523.956                 5.429
April                      46t.673               44.381                506.034                 6.982
May                        563.002               76.540                639.542                 1.143
June                       76t5.53               62.S42              -829955                       -
Total              6.429.821               340.863             6.770.484                53.617
Source:  Project Directoe. Lahore Milk Plant.                                                                       o Z
r- W



PAKI STAN
_UtA^e LIVESTQ ! PROJECT
tLN 1366 T-PAK)
Utilization at UHT Milk Produced in Lahore Milk Plant
Sold to          No.of           Returned by               Milk Lost/Wasted
Mants             Mih  sQegssed            Distributors         Towns        _        I   I4ut_ _ -I I U
,t94                  Litres             Ltcr*s   Percent                     Litres   Percent           Litrnl   Pe-cnt t/
July                   326.362            240.893       74            2         19.848       8.2            18.371      5.6
Auqust                 459.i86            434.311       94           5          32.671       7.5             6.054       1.3
September              b38.884            51.982       96          10          38.139       7.4             7.550      1.4
October                577.6C0            618.028      107           11         43.834       7.1             4.973      0.9    J.
November               592.020            540.102       91          10          27.342       5.1             6.117      1.0
December               609.749            606.403       99           11         23.637       3.9             6.975      1.1
1985
January                b28,115            638.777      102           12         18.638       2.9            15.962      2.5
February               539.082            517.327       96           13         25.322       4.9             4.837      0.9
March                  523.956            557.638      106           13         58.082      10.4             7.513       1.4
April                  506,034            538.907      106           12         59.740      11.1             9.412      1.9
May                    639.542            649,923      102           12         64.494       9.9            14.078      2.2
June                   829.955            760.198       92           It         74.858       9.8            10.646      1.3
July                   743.139            787.826      106           11        113.803      14.4            8.128       1.1
August                 672.181            572,305       8S          12          35.984       6.3            8.861       1 s
September              616.455            537.728       87           13         47.100       8.8            10.220      1.7       A Z
October                573.196            600.193      105           12         33.396       5.6            12.866      2.2       4 x
Source: Project Director. Lahore Mill Plant.
I/  Pe.centage of silk procebsed.



PAKISTAN
!UNJASAL LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Loans to VLAs
l9al          1982             1983             Total
No. of VLAs                             S            a5                11               101
Loans in cash (PRS)                  30,000        653,440           62.700          754.140
Repayments (PRs)                      6,707        280.260           15.121          317.209                           t
Percentage repayment                   9.S           42.9             24.1              42.1
Loans in kind (PRS)                     -               -                             179.950
Loans In kind recovered (PRs)           -               -                             100.648
Perccntag0 repayment                                    -                                 e6
o- z
tox
WA



ANNEX 3
-36-                                      ~~~~~~~Tah le 5
-36-
m.n -, J    -1 m-a                                           AM  ML SU1*
F lid Assets                        -           -       2,15,625   11,947,641   1,O38,5   12,,12  11251,9    1 1,404,    htl,14
Less hepitcieti*36sLoJ2LO  
Virttef 9,~  VUC  '! ' t1.Eli"    4,217,764   l,24i2     , ,tg 59    3,.  *0,l,U5     i,4l6,2l          34,415     ,28 ,24    466,7
EEC Slecis 5                        -           -           -                                  -,54W,62*
EEC lick lalante                          -                 -           -          -                                  -      12456,612
jortn 4 Stith                     31,311      46,861      347,274     355,127    112,4   319,2            1,         31,252     582,211
Cas   Oank 6uliite              3,C41,634   3,697,947   3,173,44    3,557,4     1,169,u    1,351,3a   1219,25   1,42,166    62,7
Trad Dlebutns                   1,776,12,   1,M65,4"    2,617,662   2,1767,124   3,1 1     3,54,431   1,175,11   3,676,223   4,63I,278
Advances, Ieei,&Fepset                                                     4        .      116?         .1  3         ~9dL.Ia?t
U,184,131   7,511,59   4,298,5U   7,5           ,I4
trefit & Lsct                  .!ALLThL1t6         2il-l                *!                  6 121 5
TOTtAl        20,717,513  21,94,213    21,159,  36,919,464   36,299,    46,12   019465,34  3,2351,2   11,*l11
EEC 64 ULSilte
IECI Aid   il MU                                .o ,b                                                      to ,
Cost. if P                        95,69      956,76       954,276     956,2      9,273       95,27       95,27        6,26      954,276
UMICIP Dautiem                  2,966,967   4,375,672   4,375,M7    4,361,0    4,366,42L  41,1049,4      ,m,s   4,2,94    1   4,2m,1
Capital oner"                       3,05        1,162      -           -           S                      - 
VanU Feod PtoregnuMUM.
15u,934,622   20b,63,150  23,31,   25 ,,33                      ,    2            2       26,
Detrrd Liai1itw                                 -          -           -                 -                -         261152t    369,411
EEC AW fravided to L                      -           -        *        _          _                                    _U,95,476
Geot. of psujab                   639,614     m7,371        -           -          -J  -                                      MJZU
Acctee Epue                       549,151     462,26        6,71      433,615     1136   1,645,66        11,507      121,08    1,84,4
govt. of Panjab - Ctrmt
lbaitit, of Lot-etma LIan      2,123,816   2,485,499   2, V2,71   2,U2,67    2,^12,88   2A,62,616   212,! 2 ,6211   2,61,076
scmrity 6 Other Opuits            512,164     596,541     519,        564,q2      59,182     17,575        3,675      %969      12796
tatwest kcrved a Ln               617,411     744,91l     676,421  12,6,931   1,135,44*   1,35,42   1,135,441   1,135,441   1,135*,41
Othe Liabilities                  161,965     27,49t      115,22      75,554    612,7        427,47      225,5       16,69       06,1
lcl Oetrdtaf                        *                       2t2                                -          _                       -
3,133,667   4,448,769   4,93484   5,645,932     ,6,N      3,5at iiii4i,4,144i4,703 ir6- &IW,i4
TOTAl         20,76,513  25,44,231  26,616,59  36,969,166   3,11,211  36,175,792  29,105,433  3135,619t 1l,2,I1S
SOK:Pnjib Lzvusl.c  levelpot |erd.



fU N^bUPKIS AN)
Ptw3AR l ffT g CM    WN. 136  P
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ LT-- LA
Lahore Oilk-Plant: Profit  24     ;     L rm         ti L4-85
Particulars                        IM-76        W6 77       1977f        I:-Z_       L?nJ0           ___8t    L"J:L2      L-B3        _    84
Quantities sold against sales (litres)    _5 3    209    4.M.Z7L 1 0I754_.27. 7                           ;j8 M51J344g __212i%9 _    304B87
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~****. Ps*...** **.4*  **.. ***  .*.,.*... ,. . ........., , . ,,{S)
Net Sales                                  ,930,165   7,194,196    6,192,536    6,105,304   7,3535  1I,920,299  11860.157  90,318,595   7,999,101
Less Cast of Sales (Production Cost)     1W3j&3_V__ZP16J7 9,56 ,AVJQ                                       25Z!L            7         417 75.43; 
A. CGess Loss/(Profit)                   (2,23t,224)   (92,7806  (t,778,9)    (M,68)   (127,998)    398,154   1,264,875           556,178       68,718
D. Gi)  Less Adninistrative Expenses        517,216     596,116   1,471,955   1,446,430       8,,30      592,6?       612,271     648,508      742t,9
Dii) Selling 4 Distribution Expenses   1,322,61t   1,52,503      853865    1,551,515    1,607,643     678,231      692,392     671,282     804,936
(iii) Financial (Interest) Expenses      129         129A11      12?.!i       29.511 -         7J        .L2Q_  0  
Total (i) + (ii) 4 (iii)               1;969t317   2,22,01?   2455,331   3,127,455   2,13,493    1,271,160   1,315,778    1,321,938   1,600,09 ,'
Operating Loss/(Profit) a. 4 D.          (4,211,541) (2,644,801) (4234,322)  (4,099t523)  (2,;51$4?1)   (813,106)    (40,908)   (745,760) (1,531,391)
Less Niscellane, s Income (1     -        -- _                                                            Za9 _                               f109?z
Net Lessf(Profit) for the Year           (4,056,66)  (2612,57) (4,208,58)  (3,895,426) (2,156t341)   (659,20)    213,838    (436,236)   (671,564)
Add: kcuvulated Less vp to Prior Year     5,212,725   9,304,969   l1,934,149   16,616,392   21,086,M    21,920,912   22,091,713  21,944,"4   21,569N,34
AdjustNents for Prior Year                            - -15          473J -1                                            1)        A8AL54   _
*kcualated Less Carried to blance         9,314,969  tl,934,649  16,61639    20,3 8629    21,920,912  22,091,713  20,94,974   21,569,034   22,217t,361
Sheet
Suij:ig  Punjab Livestock Deelspent hard.                                                                                                                 I



PEAKSTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(LN 1366T-PAK)
Lahore Milk Plant Assumptions for Computing Revenue and Costs
1984185      1985186       1956/87       1987/88       1908/89       i989/9U   z'JU4/,1025
Average daily collection (it)             15,000 2/    25.000        30.000        35.000        45.000              b(.1n1t
Annal _Coltlectio  (it  000)
From VLAs                                  1.900 2/     3.625         4.350         6.387         9. 855             14.hill
from otlher sources                        3.575 2t     5.500         6.600         6.387         6!,#70              3.A'0
Total annual collect ion (365 days)    5.475 4/       9.125        t.09SO        1Z.715        lb.4i¶              18 P
1/
An   i Product Mix  1300 days)
dsteurized milk (it '000)                   0            0             0             0             0
'4T mi lk                                 6.770 2/      9.000         9.500        10.500        12. MM              Is t'i.Il
1f1tter           (kg '000)                   54 2/2/      263 I/       3S6           44S'          653                 h5i;
Vogl'urt                                     0             750         1.500        1.500         1.5011               t .'tn
Mauufacturinga Losses                                                                                                                    I
Processing losses (%)                       2.0 Z2        2.0           1.5          1.5           15t
Returned Tetrapaks (%)                      8.0 2/       8.0           8.0           8.0           8.0                 t.o 
)oeratina Costs (PRs/t)_
MAilk collection costs 5/                   0.2           0.16         0.26          0.22          0.17                0.14
Processing and packaging:
-UNT milk                               1.8490        l.tS99        1.7289        1.7007        1.6752              1.b644
-  Butter                                   3.8566       3.8301        3.8227        3.8112        3.8000              3.7090
-  Yoghurt                                 0.9900        0.9870        0.9870        0.9870        0.9810              ll.'lH70
Distribution                                0.2774       0.30          0.30          0.30          0.30                0.30
I  Wholesale prices ex-plant; UNT milk - PRs5.00/1t;  Butter - PRs4t.00/kg for 1984/85 and PRS5O.OO/kg for 1985/86:
Yoghurt - PRslO.00/1.
2/  Actual figures (see Annex 3. Tables 1. 2 and 3).                                                                                    *1 Z
_/  Sales of butter limited in second half 1984/85 and first half 1985S86 owing to lack of packing materials.                           o m
41  Difference between milk rece-ved (Table U and milk processed (Table 2) due to standardisation with EEC milk powder.                   LA!
2/  PRsS.00/km for 4.000 It tankers and PRsIO.00 for 9.000 It tankers. total daily mileage 600 - 960 km.



-39-
PAKISTAN                                           ANNEX 3
PUNJAo LIVESTOCK PROJECT (LN 1366T-PAK)                           Table 8
Lah%re Milk Ptant : Income and Operating Costt
(PRs '000)
e4       eS       et       87       88       89  9(-2002   2003
rs a  f9ccuresont
._-__ ..... _                                                                                     e.
lot.al milk poculced (ItitOO)        6n7C    9CO   t0800   12*00   16200   18000    16000    18000
Gzoaa EasaSUt
._....._.._...
Productios 2!
Paattaeti2eJ *5llt                      *         *        _        ,        ,        _-
U5t &ilk                             677C    9000    950C   10500   12000   15000    150C    15000
Butter  hV 000)                        54      263      356      448      653      656       L56      Es6
1oghbrt fkg COO)                        -      750    1500    1500    1500    1500          1SOC     1600
EZoduce Ftieos
UTH *ilx tzic..#00Ol                    *                                                       S     
Buttet  x:ejOOOkg                     047       SO       50       50        SO       So      s5        50
Yog*uct Ezice/3001g                    1C       10       10       l0        10       10       10       10
frocur.stot Frics/eOOlt                 _        3         3        3        3        3         3        I
Pasteutited Bilk CeVeaue                -        -        -                                              -
UI silt rtewenu                     33e50   45000   47500   f2500   60000   15000    7SOOt   75000
E"tteC reWenue                       2'36   131SO   17800   22400   326S0   32800    328tC   32800
loghatt  esIQOU                         -    7500   15000   15000   15000   1S000    150C    15000
c   te                              3686t   65650   80300   8900  107650  122800   122600  122800
itectsJog less 125)                  72f    1313    160t    1798    2,5S3    2056          2856    2458
ress reusne aftager losres          35461   64337   74e04   69102  105491  120384   120348  120344
Opecatlag costs
Cisect costs
lab Silk putcbess                   2031C   27000   32400   37800   48600   54000    S400C   54000
Bilk coilectios es*poses             109!    1460    2845    2810O    2792    2SSS           255    23555
ErOCtStiag 4td t£akagiag            12726   14896   1931;   22844   24125   29004    29004   29004
Ostttbutioa  eapoases                Isis    2737    3285    3832    °927    5075           5875   5O5
.-- an sen..~~~~~~~~-I -;                                 
Subtatajl ditect costs              356SC    46093   57804   67286   60408   91031          9103S   S1130
CVtGread costs
_...._._.._.__.
&41inistratiou  and otbters           200      300      350      400      400       400       400      400
total opsratiag costs               350C   46393   58194   67686   80806   91434    91434   91434
___ -------_                                   ...    .....  ^_.__,______,,,__. __
Cpecatiog sutplus/doeilet            -190   17044   20500   20416   20649   28910           2891C   28910
Inviestlaat costs
...._.-._..._.__.
fas*4 iawestmeat costs             100000    5700    5700    5700    5700    5700            570C  -10040
lacc.oeCking ca;ital 21             14900    3!11      1756    1152    2130    618t              -  -25269
iaestesct costs                    11490C    9211    7451    6852    730    7518             570C  -3526S
lizancial casb flov               -11509C    8733   13042   13564   16819  *21392           23210   64179
WMSU4A.5AA  10304Aawl 06"ARVA.W4  nAS.aau  800-aU.3383  U3
SUtTCNING VALUES AT 10X
335 a3aa.333a333333335                   PRESENT VALUES              SWITCHING VALUES
PERCENT
UNT milk sales revenue                   530972.02                       -8.8
Eutter sales eevenue                     217028.11                      -21.6
Yoghurt sales revenue                    107868.74                      -43.4
ProGuction tosses (2%)                   -17117.38                      273.3
Total operating costs                   -642907.33                        7.3
Total investment costs                  -149068.33                       31.4
NET PRESENT VALUE At 10%                   46775.84
RATE 0f RETURN  *15.1
it 0erived, from Accountant's report
2/ cosuted at 12% of incresentel gross revenue.



PAW l STANl
PUIIJUA LIVESTCK PO.EtT (Li 1366t-PAC)
Ecouioc Aalysi
(PoS o000 - in constant 1985 prices)
----     ---- --_-  ---- ---  -     -- ---- ---- --- - --- ---- ---- -   - ---- --_ - ----   -_- - --_ -   - ---- ---- --- ---- ---- -   -- --- ---- ---- ---- ---
77     7t        7S       so      e        82      03       s        8!       ef      87       O8      aS  *-Zt    2W3
leactits 1I
ult ralfs cll-Deu                      -        -        -                                  -   3f398   85000   47500   52500   tDOOO  7.O(   75000   ?SOOC
PUttct  -.jI4et rtrlave                         -                 -       -        -        -    2729   13150   17800   22eo-  ?i*,50  32t    32100-  32t00
loghbtt sales gesezue                   -       -        -        -       -        -                      750C   15000   15000   15000  1!~t)C   15000   15000
Rtcductico losses                               -        -                -        -             -783   -1313   -166t   -179e   -2153  -24"t   -2056   -2
Grcss ceveseie                   -       -        -        -        -       -        -   30344   60337   78e9g   38to2  105097 120w'T  12030%  120300
Costs
2ot* ot1 tatibg CostS  t               -         -                                 -        -   38548   46393   !9190   67686    OE2B  9143@   9106   91030
luct.Iorhing calital   T/                                -        -        -       -        -   16022    3511    t75e    1152    2130    111l           _  -2526S
lb,c-zt.ert costs        1t 6186    4591    7400    6723   *5S72   36909   25501   10101    2600    5)09    5100    5700    'lUt    5700  -IOQOO
total ccctmoic costs         1e67    0591    7405    8723   *5S72   36909   25!41   65411   52504   e6562   70530  CtL78  SIS5;  9vi3"   5516!
*et c.sh ties                      -1to6   -0591   -7400    -8723  -SS572  -36909  -2S356   -27067   11833   13040.  133SB   16819   21392   23210   6o17S
SbITCHN64 TrWJts ST ICI 
SPt&:lSAL    SI.2C;96 wCtit'c^lga0
YSTsAM.tts               vassesss      VALUE sos_"t-wseXs
URIT $ats revwens     273,662.00   266,S6.00            0.711
utter sates revenue    111,4S9.00   124,345.00          11.57S
Yoburt sates revee    SS,350.00    68,240.60            23. 28
Production tostes      -8,80.72       0,076.91       -106.2Zt
Totat operating costs   331,173.00   31S,216.00         -?.90%
incr. working capitat   9,322.73    -3,St3.54        -13E.23!
lnvstent costs        100,050.00    9t,169.70          -12.395
101Al IBIl?flS    *31t 65.00  466,5!2.00              2.991
s02*1. coslS       Ofl,!S2.00   #31,695.00           -2.903
*PT a 105 a -12,1#.7
515   -  .6.0
CS   a 9.1%
1/   From Annex 3, Table 8.                                                                                                                                    -1 >
2/  Based on total financial Project costs as shown in Annex 1, Table 1.   Financial costs have been adjusted to reflect
economic values by deducting all duties and taxes and by applying SCF of 0.8 to domestic costs.   A GOP deflator has                                      o m
been used to express all values in constant t985 prices.                                                                                                  * w



ANNEX 4
Paue 1 of 4
- 41 -
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT (LN. 1366T-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comments of the Government of Pakistan
on the Project Completion Report
FAO/World Bank Cooperative mission visited Pakistan during November
1985. The mission reviewed the progress on the project from commencement
through completion and prepare the Project Completion Report. On receipt of
the Project Completon Report and its review, the Sectionwise comments on the
report are summarised as follows:
a. First Two Sections describe the introduction history, project
formulation concept including componentwise objectives envisaged
and duly assessed by the Appraisal Mission, prior to the credit
agreement and its effectiveness.
b. The 3rd Section of the report described the efforts made on the
project implementation, changes in designs of the project and
overall progress and experience gained during implementation
of the specific components of the re-designed project scope.
The contents of the report comprehensively described the
progress during implementation including the
experience/constraint and impact of the project. However,
certain clarifications are being put forward prior to finalize
the report.
Para 3.12. Efforts are under way for recommissioning of the dormant VLAs
and in case no positive response occurs, new VLAs in their place with better
location and means of communication will be started.
Para 3.13. Recovery of loan has been shown from 18 VLAs instead of existing
81 VLAs. This might be a typing mistake which may be corrected. It may also
be pointed out that recovery now stands at 5.62 lacs as against 4.18 lacs
both cash as well as in kind loan.
Para 3.15. The field work was started in 1978 and the figures provided for
animais vaccinated, treated for internal parasite and other diseases are
actually a result of functioning of a field staff in the area for a period
of seven years. It is added that Spearhead Teams were supposed to remain at
each VLA for a period of 3 months for motivation of the farms and provison of
treatment, etc. Most of the treatment was provided by these Spearhead Teams
during their stay at the VLAs.



ANNEX 4
- 42                               Page 2 of 4
Inspite of this if figures are calculated on the basis of
7 years and keeping in view the intensive care provided during 3 months stay
of the Spearhead Teams at VLAs the figures would not be misleading but within
a reasonable range of facts.
Para 3.21. Delay in construction of Milk Chilling Centre is clarified to
be on the reasons that initially on appointment of the consultant, the
services for Chilling Centre were deleted from the scope of the Consultant
services which remained hanging fire. All attempts made on different occa-
sions proved futile till hiring of the consultant services in 1984.
Para 3.25. The production of butter and yoghurt have now started. " '
arrangement for provisioning of one year's stock of the paper and ca- jns
for packing of the butter and yoghurt have been made.
Para 3.27.
a.  Presently milk pasteurizing facility is being utilized to feed the
yoghurt production line. However, arrangements are being made for
filling of the pasteurized milk in packets to supply to the market
for which the survey is in progress for launching market campaign
for this product.
b.  The availability of surplus milk during the flush production
warrants its conversion into milk powder and butter oil for its
re-use during the period of scarce milk supply. However, the
equipment for this line was omitted in the plant design by the
consultant. The inclusion of such equipments for producing the
SMP and butter oil into the remodelled LMP as an additional unit
was requested by PLP but could not be accepted by the World
Bank. Now plan is being worked out for inclusion of such
production line into the LMP to produce domestically the SMP and
Butter Oil during flush season.
c.  Omission of the clarifier in the original plant design has now
been overcome through conversion of the existing cream separators
into clarifier by fitting additional necessary attachments.
d.  The arrangements for paper of the desired specification for
packing of butter are now being made in addition to the
possibility for change in packing size to produce of 100 g and
50 g of butter.
e.  Based on the experience gained by the parties selling yoghurt in
the market, it is stated that 0.5 lit. cups are acceptable in the
market. However, the cups for filling up of the yoghurt have been
made available and production line is put in operation.
f.  It is clarified that small milk collection tankers of 2,000 lit.
capacity each, fitted on the flat bed lorries, are not the
locally fabricated but these are imported alongwith rest of the
plant machinery. However, the possibilities for the pump and
pipe lines of stainless steel are being made. The milk churns



ANNEX 4
43                               Page 3 of 4
which are now under use for filling the tanker are not of 45 kg
but of 37 kg load each.
Para 3.29. Experience of milk collection by the small farmers necessitated
the mixing up of the traditional collection system with the system of milk
collection through VLAs members. Meanwhile, upon commissioning of the
Chilling Centre the arrangements are under way for collection the evening
milk as well.
Para 3.35. The delay in the construction of the Chilling Centre was of
course not by choice and was unavoidable. However, now Chilling Centres are
being commissioned, making the way to reduce the expenditure on purchase of
ice to chill the milk and also making use of the investment on 9000 lit.
milk tankers.
Para 3.42. The building constructed and equipment imported to add the semen
processing facility at existing A.I. Centre Qadirabad, have now been put to
use resulting gradual improvement and increase in the provision of A.I.
services in the VLAs areas.
Para 3.43. The Directorate of A.I. being clear of their responsibility to
provide the A.I. services now making efforts to increase their coverage for
provision of A.i. service to the farmers in the VLAs areas.
Para 3.50. The pending case of arbitra-ion with the Consultant
(Mls. Wernberg of Denmark) now in the Civil Court is being mutually resolved
through compromising outside the court.
Para 3.55. In text of the para and Annex-I, Table-3, the disbursement up to
September 1985 is given as US$ 7.2 million. Now the final disbursement up
to the loan closing date, i.e., June 30, 1986 comes to US$ 8.348 million.
It may be corrected.
Para 4.4. Uncertain future due to the frequent changes in management of PLDB
resulted lack of interest by the incumbents which is conjunction with other
procedural formalities resulted the low performance in implementation of the
Project. Had this factor not prevailing, the experience of PLDB in other
range of activities on previous projects would have worked as catalyst in
PLDB performance on this project.
Para 4.7. The pending work concernin formation of a Dairy Corporation is
almost complete which has been incorporated since December 12, 1985. The
Corporation has now commenced its business since September 1986.
Para 4.8. Auditing of the accounts of PLDB had continuously been carried
out by the Directorate of Commercial Audit, Government of Pakistan, as per
procedure of the Government. The PLDB has been submitting the audited
accounts periodically.
Para 4.10. The covenant concerning to the milk corporation has also been
complied with as the said Milk Corporation has been incorporated since
December 12, 1985, which has commenced its business from September 1, 1986.



ANNEX 4
- 44 -                           'FPage 4 of 4
Para 5.3. The existing facilities at A.I. Centre Qadirabad have now been
put to operation. Through its utilization the coverage for A.I. service to
the VLA farmers is being improved gradually and anticipated to create project
impact in the area in near future.
Para 6.2. Keeping in view the delay in remodelling of LMP and resultant low
fund generation position of the Plant, so far the Government has decided that
a new Corporation "Punjab Dairy Corporation Limited" will only take over the
remodelled IMP with its assets and liabilities while the Field Services
Organization component of the PLP would be managed by the L & DD Department
Punjab for financing this component on grant basis.



IBRD12201
This map has been prepared by
rhe Wordl eens Statf exclusivety
for the convenience of the
readers and is exckusivefy /of the
internal use of the Wotrt Bank
and the kiternatiri Fmnce
Corporation The dJenominations
used and the boundaries shown
on ths map do not Imply. on the
part of The World 8ank and the                                             J:;
tnernatonal Fnance Corporaton.                                SDA DANE SiAH
any judgment on the tegal status
ot Sii terntory Ow any
endorsement or acceolance of
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if
/   t  f f i     >         ' {<2                 doH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
L...~~~~~~L
'-7}                                                                                                                                           PUNJAB  PROVINCE  L
/                                                                                                                          /  MAJOR LAND USE AND CANAL COMMANDS
PROJECT AREA
)                                                                                                                           ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROUGH aRAZiNo WITH SCAE UNWED LAND
I                                     -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING PERENNIAL INEIGATION
*xISTING NON-PERNtNIAL 'SNIGATIOW
5                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRY cRoppeD LAND
I  4                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNMENT LIVESOCIC FARM$
RAISYA   BMN/                                                                                                                          OARD LIVE.OTCK FARMS
I                                                                  MAtN CANALS
I  I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LINK CANALS
I  RIVERS WITHM EAMSIEESSRoiRs
(                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
9                                                        4-4-  RAILWAYS
7  W    r PS    S                            i                      PUNJABMILES  PROVINCE  ROUNOARIES
,r   '  '                                                                         9,     2            9'                190 I/TERNAINDAL CONDARIES
(.  .-.--.-.-.                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMAETERS
SIX!   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~73X                                                                    74H                                    Am



