Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY FILE COPY
Report No. 1 193-PAK
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
January 19, 1977
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribufton and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worldl Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Currency Equivalent
US$1                             Rs 9.90
Rs 1                             US$0.10
Rs 1 million (M)                 US$101,000
Weights and Measures
1 acre (ac)                      0.405 hectare
1 mile (mi)                      1.609 kilometers
1 inch (in)                      2.540 centimeters
1 pound (lb)                     0.454 kilogram
1 liter (1)                      0.264 US gallons
Abbreviations
AI      -      Artificial Insemination
FMD     -      Foot and Mouth Disease
GOP     -     Government of Pakistan
GOPa    -     Government of the Punjab
HYV     -     High Yielding Variety
NWFP    -      North West Frontier Province
PLB     -     Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry
Development Board
VLA     -      Village Livestock Association
VRI     -      Veterinary Research Institute
WFP     -     World Food Program
DLDD    -     Department of Livestock, Fisheries and Dairy
Development
TDN     -     Total Digestible Nutrients
M       -     Million
Fiscal Year - Government PLB
July 1   -   June 30



FOR OFNICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1/
Staff Project Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY .            .....................    . .......... .   1
a)    The Role of Livestock in the Agricultural Sector ...                    1
b)    The Project Summary   .......          ............ ......#             4
II.    THE PROJECT   ................... oeo...........          ..............      9
a)    Project Genesis and Outline   ........................                  9
b)   Detailed Features ...........             ............... ..... ..      11
cj    Cost Estimates ........................................  ....... .00..  19
d)    Financing ..........................................                  20
e)    Procurement ................................... 9o......so....         22
f)   Disbursement .                           ..............  . 0            23
g)    Accounts and Audit . ................  ...   ....... .*...             24
III.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT               ... ....       ............        25
a)    Project Coordination ..... ...... ...... so ....... ... . . ....      25
b)    The Project Component ..o ................. .. ..                      25
c)   Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................                   30
IV.    PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ... ......... ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Yields, Production and Farm Models .................                         31
Market Prospects ........ . . . . . . . .  ............. .....  . ...... .   33
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........... .. .. . . . ... ...............................  34
VI.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ..... ..................... ...  ........... .         36
VII.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED   ...... ....                              ................... .  .    40
1/ The appraisal mission visited Pakistan in February 1976 and was staffed
by P.J. Brumby, R. Ellinger, M. Wilson and C. Wolffelt of the Bank.
Tbis document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be diclomed wit     WoIddIankmuthorization.



VIII ATTACHED TABLES, APPENDICES and MAP
Table 1     -  Total Project Costs
Table 2     -  Disbursement Schedule
Table 3     -  Crop Budgets - Physical Data
Table 4     -  Crop Budgets - Financial Data
Table 5     -  Crop Budgets - Economic Data
Table 6     -  VLA Cattle Herd Projection
Table 7     -  VLA Buffalo Herd Projection
Table 8     -  VLA Cattle and Buffalo Income
Table 9     -  Project Production
Table 10    -  Farm Model Cash Flows
Table 11    -  VLA Cash Flow
Table 12    -  Dairy Plant - Investment Projection
Table 13    -  Dairy Plant - Income and Operating Cost Projections
Table 14    -  Dairy Plant - Cash Flow Projection
Table 15    -  Slaughter Plant - Investment Projection
Table 16    -  Slaughter Plant - Sales Revenue
Table 17    -  Slaughter Plant - Income and Operating Cost Projection
Table 18    -  Slaughter Plant - Cash Flow Projection
Table 19    -  Impact of Project on Government Cash Flow
Table 20    -  Economic Rate of Return
Chart  I    -  Organization Chart
Chart  2    -  Project Implementation Schedule
Chart  3    -  Profile of Monthly Labor, Bullock Power and Water
Requirements
Appendix 1 -  VLA By-laws
Appendix 2  -  Milk Corporation By-laws
Appendix 3  -  Staff Composition and Training Program for
VLA Implementation Teams
Appendix 4  -  Terms of Reference for Key Personnel and
Consultants
Appendix 5  -  Outline of Quarterly Progress Report
Map 1       -  Land Use and Canal Commands - Punjab
Annex 1     -  Table of Contents of Project Annexes Contained
in a separate volume and prepared by the Appraisal
Mission
Annex 2     -  Table of Contents of Related Documents and
Data Available in the Project File



I. INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
a.   The Role of Livestock in the Agricultural Sector
1.01      Agriculture is the mainstay of economic activity in Pakistan, pro-
viding around 32% of GDP and at least 35% of export earnings. Crops provide
about 69% and livestock 28% of the value of agricultural production, the
residual 3% being made up by fisheries and forestry. Rice and cotton are the
major export crops and a primary source of tax revenue to Government. Wheat
and edible oils are the major imported agricultural commodities. Official
exports of livestock products (mainly hides and skins) amount to US$40-50
million equivalent annually, some 5% of average export income. Livestock
imports - mainly milk products and live animals - amount to about US$20
million annually, 1% of all imports.
1.02      The increase in agricultural output in Pakistan during the latter
part of the '60s was more than 6% per year. This was largely the result of
an increase in the supply of irrigation water, principally from tubewells,
and the introduction of high yielding varieties of cereals assisted by the
use of larger quantities of fertilizers. In the last few years, however,
agricultural growth has been much slower. Since the early '70s acreage
planted to high yielding varieties of wheat, rice and cotton has not in-
creased. To regain impetus in agricultural output requires a new agricultural
strategy, the main elements of which are an improvement of the extension
system, an increased research program, price policies which provide adequate
incentives to farmers, and programs for drainage, tubewells, the maintenance
of water courses and the improvement of the operational characteristics of
the irrigation system in water course command areas. The Government is in-
creasingly aware of the need to adopt such a strategy and a series of projects
to implement it are under discussion with the Bank. 1/ The prices of some
agricultural products have recently been improved.
1.03      Some 72% of Pakistan's rapidly growing 66 M population (growth rate
3% to 3.5% annually) live in rural areas and 52% or 36 million depend directly
on agriculture for their livelihood. Small scale irrigated farming predomi-
nates. The average size of the 4.8 million farm holdings is about 10 ac.
About 8% of farms have 25 ac or more while 50% of farm households have less
than 5 ac. A further 800,000 landless families are believed to own livestock.
About 40% of the cultivated area is tenant land, 40% owner operated and 20%
of mixed tenure. Recent land reform legislation, announced in January 1977,
seeks to limit individual ownerships to 100 acres irrigated or 200 acres un-
irrigated land. Land Revenue has been abolished and is to be replaced by
income tax from which all farmers with lesss than 25 acres irrigated or 50
acres unirrigated land will be exempted. However, division of land title
amongst family members has enabled most larger farm families to retain their
property. The rural population is largely centered on irrigated land in the
Indus Basin and is distributed amongst villages typically comprising 150
households and 1,000 acres of arable land.
1/   The report "Special Agriculture Sector Review" (922a-PAK dated Jan 28,
1976) prepared by a Bank agricultural sector mission was distributed to
the Executive Directors in March 1976.



1.04      Of Pakistan's land area of about 200 M acre, some 48 M ac is consid-
ered cultivable and 33 M ac is irrigable at least once in the monsoon season
(Kharif), or in the dry winter period (Rabi). The remaining 15 M ac are the
Barani or rainfed areas. Productive forest lands cover 7 M ac and the resid-
ual, mostly with less than 10 in. annual rainfall, is range and wasteland. On
the irrigated areas wheat, rice, pulses, cotton, sugarcane and fodder are the
main crops.   Most land cultivation (about 90%), particularly on smaller farms,
is carried out by bullock power. In spite of recent increases in the use of
fertilizers and HYV's, average crop yields remain low.   An encouraging fea-
ture of the otherwise disappointing average yields is the great difference
which exists between the yields of the better and less good farmers, which
indicates the potential for overall production increases.   Yields harvested
by average farmers are compared with those obtained by better farmers in
the table below.
Yield of Major Crops
(Average 1970/71 - 1974/75)
Average                 Yield of
Yield               Better Farmers
T/ac                   T/ac
Wheat                        0.5                      1.50
Rice                         0.6                      1.50
(Basmati
and HYV)
Cotton                       0.13                     0.75
Sugarcane                   15.0                     27.0
The "Barani" lands are cultivated under rainfed conditions, 20-40 in. annu-
ally, in Northern Punjab and Northwest Frontier Province. Wheat and grain
are the main Barani crops but yields are very low, ranging from 0.15 tons to
0.3 tons per ac depending upon the amount and distribution of rainfall. These
areas provide about 10% of Pakistan's wheat production.
1.05      Nutrition surveys in Pakistan indicate that most of the rural people
have a barely adequate diet (average daily intake is a little under 2,000
calories with about 50 grams of protein). Meat consumption, 82% of which is
cattle and buffalo beef, averages 4.9 kg per capita/year, while milk consump-
tion approximates 51 liters per capita. Comparable figures for Iran and India
are 16.5 and 1.3 kg of meat, and 55 and 45 liters of milk respectively.
1.06      Cattle, although in short supply, are the main source of draft power.
The number of draft bullocks in Pakistan appears to have been constant at
about 2.8 M pairs throughout the last several decades. In this period the
amount of land under cultivation, and cropping intensities, have increased
mainly through an increasing use of tractors; about 35,000 units are in oper-
ation. Nonetheless, the number of draft bullocks is inadequate and equiv-
alent to about one pair per 14 acres. The land area a pair of bullocks can
handle effectively is 12 acres at a cropping intensity of 100%, and only
8-10 acres at an intensity of 130%. As a result the shortage of bullocks



- 3 -
precludes timely farm operations which are essential for high yields. Addi-
tionally, a widespread incidence of debilitating diseases, particularly Foot
and Mouth Disease (FMD), reduces the productivity of draft animals.
1.07      The shortage of draft bullocks results from the inability of the cat-
tle breeding herds in the rangelands and Barani areas to produce more because
of the limited and declining pasture resource. Few work bullocks are bred in
the irrigated areas preference for female stock being given to buffalo for
milk production purposes. Conversely, buffalo males are in little demand,
and many male buffalo calves are permitted to die at an early age.
1.08      The potential for the better integration of livestock and crop pro-
duction on the average farm is large and capable of generating substantial
increases in farm incomes. The basis for better integration is to replace
the essentially single purpose animal with a dual purpose milk and draft
animal, either the cross between the local cattle breed and an improved dairy
breed or dual purpose buffalo. This would remove one of the principal con-
straints to higher agricultural production - inadequate draft power - and
permit improvements in cultivation intensity and in the timeliness of farm
operations. Further benefits would stem from the increase in disposable
income from higher milk revenues that would be available for reinvestment
in the farm.
1.09      For such changes to occur the Government would have to improve sub-
stantially the level of support services provided to livestock producers, as
it is beyond their technical capability to implement these changes without
Government support. Consequently Government would have to improve its live-
stock extension and veterinary services, expand the artificial insemination
service, assist producers to organize themselves into milk producers' cooper-
atives, and generally to intensify and upgrade its efforts in the livestock
field. In recent years livestock has been receiving a totally inadequate 5% of
agricultural development expenditures.
1.10      Unlike milk production which is highly profitable and constrained
only by a poor market infrastructure, or the value of draft animals which
is high and increasing, beef prices are at present relatively low. However,
demand for beef in Pakistan has been growing, principally in the urban areas.
As a result, retail prices, particularly of quality beef, have tended to
increase. Pakistan is also well placed to serve a number of meat deficit
centers in the Middle East. Until recently beef prices in Pakistan were
subject to Government controls. With the lifting of these controls on good
quality cuts a further increase in beef prices would assist the development
of the livestock industry. It would also facilitate the better integration
with crop production, and thus increase farm production overall.
1.11      Little has been done, so far, to improve the standards of hygiene
in milk and meat marketing and these are other problems that have to be
tackled if a modern and economic livestock industry is to be established.
Investment in such areas would need to complement any major program for
improving livestock production.



- 4 -
1.12      The project described in this report would encompass measures to
improve livestock production and the integration of crop and livestock hus-
bandry in the Shekhupura District of the Punjab. It would serve as a pilot
for the rest of the irrigated areas of the country and would include measures
to improve the marketing and handling of livestock products.
b.   TLhe_Proe_t_Summary
1.13      The proposed project would be the first financed by the Bank Group
for livestock development in Pakistan. It would be centered on the Shekhu-
pura District of the Punjab and would constitute a pilot for further phases
of a livestock development program for the irrigated agricultural areas of
Pakistan. The project was prepared by the Punjab Livestock Development Board
(PLB) assisted by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. It developed from a
proposal by the Government that the Bank consider a project to utilize the
beef production potential of the very large number of bull buffalo calves that
now die or are slaughtered within one year of age. The project was appraised
in February 1976.
1.14      The project is designed to improve the methods of livestock produc-
tion and to integrate more effectively the livestock and crop production
activities of some 60,000 small farmers and landless stock owners in the
Skekhupura District where farm size and tenancy arrangements are similar to
those described in para 1.03. Of the participants, about 15,000 are expected
to be landless stock owmers. Through project actions both livestock and
agricultural output would increase. The Project would also include measures
to improve marketing and handling of livestock products.
1.15      The project would comprise:
(a) establishing and operating, under the control of PLB, about 500
farmer owned Village Livestock Associations (VLA), which would
be the foci for the delivery of governmental and other support
services including extension, veterinary, and artificial insem-
ination. The VLA would purchase milk from their members for
sale to PLB and supply its members with production inputs.
Membership of each VLA would, at project maturity, comprise
about 120 families.
(b) strengthening the Punjab Department of Livestock Development
to improve its research, extension, foot and mouth disease
vaccine production, and artificial insemination capabilities
and thus to provide project participants with efficient sup-
port services.
(c) improving the animal production training capacity of the
Punjab Department of Livestock Development to ensure the
provision of adequate numbers of suitably trained livestock
technicians.



(d)  expanding the Milk Corporation's Lahore milk plant (a sub-
sidiary of PLB) from a capacity of 25,000 litres/day
to 100,000 litres/day to handle the increase in mar-
keted milk expected to be brought about by the project;
and the establishment by the Milk Corporation of milk
collection and milk chilling centers in the Skekhupura
District.
(e)  constructing a modern export standard slaughterhouse and
meat processing facility in Lahore to be owned by PLB with
a capacity of 400 head of cattle and buffalo per shift.
This would replace existing unhygienic facilities, cater
for the increased throughput of larger animals expected
to be generated by the project actions, and provide
facilities for processing meat and by-products.
(f)  improving some 10,000 acres of PLB managed farm-land
in order to increase rapidly the production of
improved cattle, and
(g)  mapping land use patterns in the project area in order
to determine seasonal land use patterns.
1.16      The project would be carried out over the four years, beginning in
1977, by agencies of the Punjab Provincial Government with agricultural
credit services provided by five major commercial banks.
Costs and Financing
1.17      The project is estimated to cost US$19.7 million of which US$2.5
million equivalent would be duties and taxes. The foreign exchange compo-
nent of project costs is US$10 million. A Third Window Loan of US$10 million
is proposed that would be equivalent to the foreign exchange component and to
59% of project costs less duties and taxes.
1.18      The loan would be on-lent by the Government of Pakistan to the
Government of the Punjab on standard Third Window terms. The Government
of Punjab would, from the proceeds of the loan:
(a)  lend US$5.9 M, equivalent, at 8 3/4% interest for a term
of 10 years including 4 years' grace, to PLB for develop-
ment of the project's milk and meat processing components
and PLB tenant farm development;
(b)  provide US$4.1 M equivalent as budgetary allocations for
other project components to the PLB (US$0.4 M), Ministry
of Livestock Development (US$3.6 and the Government mapping
agency (US$0.1 M).



- 6 -
1.19      The remainder of the project costs (US$9.7 M) would be provided by
the Government of Punjab (US$5.0 M), the VLA (US$0.16 M) and the commercial
banks (US$4.5 M). Of the latter about US$0.2 M would be in short term working
capital and US$4.3 million in loan funds to PLB. The GOPa contribution would
comprise US$3.4 M equivalent in incremental budgetary allocations to project
agencies and US$1.65 M in incremental equity capital to PLB. The contribution
of the VLA to project costs would be raised from initial shareholdings of
member farmers. Commercial banks have available the local funds the project
requires and assurances would be sought that adequate Rupee loans would be
made available for the project. These loan funds would bear interest at
11-12%.
Procurement and Disbursement
1.20      Procurement of equipment, vehicles and imported construction mate-
rials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Milk and meat processing equip-
ment would be procured and installed with turn-key contracts, let under ICB.
Smaller items for which ICB is not practical and where unit prices do not
exceed the equivalent of US$10,000 each up to a total of US$1 million,
would be purchased through Government's procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory; the aggregate expenditure for items to be procured under ICB
and consultant services is expected to amount to about US$7.0 M. Some par-
ticipation by domestic manufacturers is envisaged and a margin of preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the prevailing import duties, if lower, would
be applicable. Civil works, except for the construction of the slaughter-
house, are so spread over time and area and unattractive to foreign contrac-
tors that they would be carried out by the Public Works Department and by
local contractors. Disbursement would be made for 100% of foreign expendi-
tures on imported equipment and 100% of local expenditures (exfactory) for
domestically produced equipment. In the case of imported equipment and
machinery procured locally, disbursements would be 60% of costs. In the case
of civil works, disbursements would be 100% of foreign expenditures and 50%
of local costs. For consulting services and the turn-key contracts for the
equipment of the Lahore meat and milk plants disbursements would be 100% of
total expenditures net of any domestic taxes or duties. Disbursements for
animal production education, included above, would be made only after agree-
ment had been reached between the Government of the Punjab and the Bank on
the education program to be developed under the project. Disbursement against
research expenditures would be made only after the Punjab Government had pre-
pared and the Bank had approved a five year livestock research program.
Implementation
1.21      Under the conditions prevailing Pakistan, livestock development
cannot proceed successfully without progress in crop production, and in the
efficient utilization of both crop by-products and fodder for milk and meat
production. Moreover, only small increases in crop production are likely to
be obtained without improvements in the productivity of draft animals. To
achieve the changes required, the project calls for major contributions by
two government agencies, the Ministry of Livestock Development and the PLB



- 7 -
and the Agricultural University. The responsibilities of each agency are
specific; nevertheless the effectiveness of the project effort will depend
upon the adequate coordination of the efforts of each participating agency.
To assure this, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be established
which would be responsible for inter-agency coordination, liaison with the
Federal Government, and for project supervision and monitoring. The PCC would
be established under the authority and on behalf of the Chief Minister of the
Province of Punjab and no legal action would be required for its formation
other than notification of the establishment of the PCC in the official
Gazette. The Chairman of the PCC would be nominated by the Chief Minister;
members of the Committee would include the nominees of the Provincial Depart-
ments of Finance, Planning and Development, and Livestock Development, the
Agricultural University of Lyallpur, the PLB, and jointly the 5 major Commer-
cial Banks. The committee would supervise and monitor project implementation
and through its small secretariat be responsible for project procurement,
disbursement and other financial and performance records. Agricultural
extension work is handled by the Ministry of Agriculture whose extension
services are to be strengthened by an agricultural research and extension
project now under preparation.
1.22      The project would be implemented by two agencies of the Punjab
Government:
(a) The Department of Livestock Fisheries and Dairy Development;
responsible for livestock extension and research, veterinary
services, the production of Foot and Mouth Disease vaccine
and for the artificial insemination service, and training in
animal production; and
(b) the PLB responsible for assisting the development of the
500 VLA, constructing and operating the slaughterhouse and
meat processing facility, expanding and operating - through
a subsidiary company - the milk processing facility and
cooling centers, and intensifying agricultural production
on the 10,000 acres of PLB supervised tenant farms.
1.23      The basis for project development and implementation would be the
VLA, registered under Company law, the organization and responsibilities of
which would be patterned on the successful village dairy societies established
elsewhere in South Asia. A principal function of each VLA would be to collect
milk twice daily from its members, paying cash for each delivery less any dues
owing to the VLA. Milk so collected would be bulked in 40 litre cans and
delivered to the Milk Corporation who would establish collecting and chilling
centers and organize collection under the project. The artificial insemina-
tion service would be channeled through the VLA with VLA staff carrying out
inseminations with training and supervision by Department of Livestock Develop-
ment staff. The VLA would also be the centers for an intensified agricultural
extension effort which would deal both with the farmers crop and livestock
enterprises. The PLB would assist in the formation of the VLA's and account-
ing and business matters. The costs of such assistance would be taken into



account in fixing Milk Corporation prices for liquid milk purchased from the
VLA. The PLB farms have a special role in providing the initial training
ground for VLA implementation teams and in testing and demonstrating the
development practices to be implemented in the VLA's. Each of the PLB opera-
tions would be self sustaining financially. PLB farms are providing a profit
at present; the Milk Corporation is expected to show operating surpluses from
the first year as a small operating plant would be taken over and expanded;
and the slaughterhouse would process all stock presently slaughtered in the
inadequate municipal facilities of Lahore which are to be closed as soon as
the new plant is constructed. The new slaughterhouse would not impose addi-
tional costs on local and export producers and would derive its profits mainly
from processing by-products and quality meat. Pakistan's five largest commer-
cial banks would participate in the project by supplying the seasonal credit
needs of VLA members, and the local loan capital required by the PLB.
1.24      In order to provide effective support to project activities, about
20 man years of consultant service (US$1.0 M at about US$50,000 per man year)
would be engaged. The design and construction of the milk, meat and vaccine
units would be carried out under consultant guidance and specific technical
activities in these fields and in AI, research and land use mapping would be
supported by consultancies. To improve the quality of livestock education,
which is particularly weak because past educational policies have concentrated
on crop production and veterinary medicine, the project would also provide
consultant services to develop an improved training program.
Project Benefits and Risks
1.25      The primary benefits of the project would be (a) an incremental
increase in crop production in the project area as a consequence of more
and better quality draft animals and (b) increments in meat and milk produc-
tion. By project Year 12 it is expected that cropping intensity in the
project area would have increased, due to the better availability of draft
animals, from about 100% at present to about 130%. This change, together
with improvements in the timeliness of cultivation operations, would result
in an annual increment of about 50,000 tons of foodgrains worth about Rs
100 M. By the same time increments in meat and milk production generated by
the project are expected to amount to 6,000 and 45,000 tons annually worth
about Rs 90 M. The value of this incremental annual production, expressed
in 1976 terms, is estimated at about Rs 193 M (US$19.5 M.) No problems are
foreseen in absorbing the increased production of foodgrains, however the
project's milk and meat marketing components are essential since an increase
in milk production requires a more sophisticated market infrastructure and
meat exports are dependent upon better processing facilities. Because tenancy
agreements normally stipulate that livestock income accrues to the tenant,
tenant farmers have a particular incentive to participate in livestock pro-
duction activities.
1.26      Of the total project cost, US$12 M would be loan funds to
PLB and repayable within 10 years from the operating revenue of this organ-
ization. The balance of project costs, to be expended largely on vaccine



production and improved training, would be recovered by year 14, principally
from incremental tax revenues arising from the sale of the project output
of meat and milk. By increasing agricultural production, the project would
have an additional indirect effect on Government revenues since it would re-
duce the subsidy the Government provides on imported foodgrains. Incremental
grain production - about 50,000 tons - would thereby represent a saving of
some Rs 3 M in annual subsidy payments.
1.27      At full development in year 11, the economic value of incremental
production under the project is estimated at Rs 193 million. The expected
economic rate of return for the project return is 30%. If costs increase by
20% the return would decrease to 24%; if benefits decrease by 20% the return
would be 23%.
1.28      Given experienced management, particularly for the PLB, the risks
involved in this project are not great. The benefits to participants are
high and experience elsewhere in South Asia has demonstrated that projects
of this nature work well. Particularly important is the fact that tenancy
agreements in Pakistan normally stipulate that fodder and livestock produced
on a tenant farm are retained by the tenant. Consequently, even tenant far-
mers have a strong incentive to increase livestock production. What risks
there are relate mostly to possible administrative delays in establishing
and operating the various project organizations which could retard the
growth of project benefits.
II. THE PROJECT
a.   Project Genesis and Outline
2.01      In 1974 Government expressed interest in Bank Group assistance for
a project to utilize the beef potential of the large number of bull buffalo
calves, presently allowed to die of underfeeding within one year of birth.
GOP agreed that such a project would require increased beef prices which they
believed could be achieved by a relaxation of the government prohibition of
beef exports. On this basis a project was identified and prepared by the
Punjab Livestock Development Board (PLB) with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program. The project was appraised by a Bank mission in February
1976.
2.02      At appraisal Government agreed that as a result of recent declines
in world beef prices, the original project concept required modification to
widen its scope and reduce the emphasis of beef production, at least for the
immediate future, while laying the infrastructural foundations to enable beef
exports to be undertaken when world prices improve. The project, the first
Bank Group project supporting the Pakistan livestock sector, would be centered
on the Shekhupura District of the Punjab. The revised project would increase



- 10 -
the livestock and agricultural output of about 60,000 village farmers, includ-
ing 15,000 landless stock owners, mainly by improving the productivity of
draft cattle and providing better milk marketing services. The essential
elements of the project involve better livestock disease control, the upgrad-
ing of village livestock in quality and numbers, the provision of improved
milk marketing facilities and extension services, and the improvement of
vaccine production, and meat and milk processing facilities. The central
feature of project organization is based on the formation of about 500 Village
Livestock Associations (VLAs) in Shekhupura District. Approximately 50% of
cultivated land in this District is privately owned and 50% farmed under
annual tenancy agreements which usually stipulate that all crop outputs are
equally shared between the land owner and tenants. In many agreements inputs
of seed, fertilizer and water charges are paid for by the land owner. Income
from livestock sales is usually retained by the tenant who normally owns the
farm livestock.
2.03      By the end of the 4 year investment period the participation of
farmers in the project would be as follows:
No.             Total Land
Area (ac.)
Landless Farmers (O ac)          15,000              0
Subsistence Farmers (3.5 ac)   26,000              91,000
Small Farmers (7 ac)             16,500           115,000
Commercial Farmers (35 ac)        2,500            87,500
PLB Tenants                         800            10,000
60,800           303,500
2.04      Principal increases in production would result from an increase
in cropping intensity from 110% to 130%, from a 20% increase in major crops
yields and from an increase in the present sales of milk and meat. Peak
agricultural production would be reached in Year 12 of the project.
2.05      The Project, to be implemented over four years, would consist of:
(a)  establishing and operating, under the control of PLB, about 500
farmer owned Village Livestock Associations (VLA's), which would
be the foci for the delivery of governmental and other support
services including extension, veterinary, and artificial insem-
ination. The VLA would purchase milk from their members for
sale to PLB and supply its members with production inputs.
At project maturity each VLA would comprise about 110 families.
(b)  strentthening the Punjab Department of Livestock Development
to improve its research, extension, foot and mouth disease
vaccine production, and artificial insemination capabilities
and thus to provide project participants with efficient sup-
port services.



- 11 -
(c)  improving the animal production training capacity of the
Department of Livestock Development of GOPa and the Agri-
cultural University, Lyallpur to ensure the provision
of adequate numbers of suitably trained livestock techni-
cians.
(d)  expanding the Milk Corporation's Lahore milk plant (a sub-
sidiary of PLB) from a capacity of 25,000 l./day to
100,000 l./day to deal with the increase in marketed
milk expected to be brought about by the project; and
the establishment by the Milk Corporation of milk col-
lection and milk chilling centers in the Skekhupura
District.
(e)  constructing a modern export standard slaughterhouse and
meat processing facility in Lahore to be owned by PLB with
a capacity of 400 head of cattle and buffalo per shift.
This would replace existing unhygienic facilities, cater
for the increased throughput of larger animals expected
to be generated by the relaxation of price controls on
beef and other project actions, and provide facilities
for processing export meat.
(f)  improving some 10,000 acres of PLB managed land in order
to rapidly increase the production of improved cattle, and
(g)  mapping land use patterns in the project area in order
to determine seasonal land use patterns.
b.   Detailed Features 1/
The Village Livestock Associations
2.06      The VLA concept is based upon an appropriate modification, for
Pakistani conditions, of the successful Amul Model of village dairy societies
in India. The VLA's would be community organizations operated by village
farmers registered under the Registrar of Companies and directed towards
increasing livestock production; they would also provide a focal point for
stimulating developments in agricultural output. The more significant
features of the VLA's would include: (a) the provision of an organized
market for milk, and payment for milk based on butterfat content; (b) the
provision of technical services on animal husbandry and feeding programs,
including the prompt availability of animal health and AI services; (c)
a training program for VLA staff; (d) continuous supervision of the vil-
lage societies and a quarterly audit of their accounts; (e) the supply
of start up equipment for each new livestock association.
1/   The working papers prepared by the mission and describing each
project component in detail are contained in Annex 1.



- 12 -
2.07      From enquiries made during appraisal it is assumed for project for-
mulation purposes that 50% of the 1000 villages in the project area will
form VLA's and that 70% of the small farmers and stock owners in each VLA
village will become members. The membership of each VLA is expected to reach
its maximum in the fifth year and include about 70% of the 550 buffalo and
300 cattle in the typical village. At maturity the project would cover an
estimated 60,000 families, 100,000 breeding buffalo, 30,000 breeding cows
and about 300,000 acres of crop land. Production details are provided in
Section 4.
2.08      Key features of the organization of the VLA's involve membership
only by village livestock owners engaged in milk production, management of
the association by an elected committee of members, and with a paid Secretary
and Assistant, and an allocation of earnings as stipulated in the VLA bylaws
(Appendix I). The formation and extension needs of the VLA's would be under-
taken by specific teams trained in the task within PLB. Incremental output of
the typical VLA and its member farmers would arise from the provision of an
organized milk market to enhance milk sales and production, the use of incre-
mental income from milk to increase the use of crop inputs and thereby raise
crop yields, and improvements in the quantity and quality of draft power
attained by FMD vaccination, increased fodder production and advice on stock
management and health. The physical investment for a VLA would consist of
milk collection and testing equipment, an AI crate, veterinary and AI equip-
ment and some furniture. VLA's would collect milk twice daily. The collec-
tion point would be a building in the society's home village rented by the
VLA. Collections would be handled on a first-come-first served basis and
samples for fat testing would be taken from every batch of milk. The quantity
delivered by each member would be noted at the time of delivery by the VLA
secretary trained in milk testing in a pocket record book carried by each
member. The payment according to fat content would be determined and recorded,
along with the volume delivered, in society records. Local staff of the VLA
would be trained to handle milk procurement, to provide AI and animal first
aid services. A specialized extension service organized by the field manager
of PLB would provide more specialized supporting services in farm management,
fodder production and disease control.
2.09      The farming models used in projecting the production of a VLA are
typical of the average village of the Project area which has about 130 farm
units and 30 livestock owning, but landless, families Village households in
the project area can be classified into four general groups according to their
economic situation:
Landless livestock owners, most of whom earn part of their living
as daily workers in the fields, in construction or in distribution. They
make up about 15% of the households in the project area.
Marginal farmers cultivating less than 5 ac of land; frequently
half of the household income of these families is obtained from daily work
outside the farm. These farmers account for roughly 50% of farms in the
project area and about 15% of the crop area.



- 13 -
Small Farmers cultivating an area of 5 to 25 acres and with a per
capita income that straddles the national average. About 45% of farms
are in this category and they occupy about 50% of the crop area.
Medium to large farmers owning and/or renting more than 25 ac and
making up the rural elite. They constitute about 5% of farms and farm
some 35% of the project crop area.
The PLB Training Facility
2.10      The establishment and successful operation of the VLA's requires a
most careful selection and training of key staff to provide the VLA implemen-
tation teams, as well as additional training and orientation for the operation-
al staff of the VLAs and of the extension staff who will service them. Staff
training facilities for this purpose would be established on PLB land and
under the administrative control of PLB, with the majority of teaching staff
being provided through the Agricultural Extension Department of Lyallpur
University on short term and part time contracts. The training load in the
initial year of operations amounts to 800 man weeks and rises to 1,600 man
weeks in year four. Provision of teaching and dormitory space for 40 students
is required. Construction would be extremely simple in design and based on
soil-cement blocks. Extension work in crop production and protection is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture whose activities are to be
strengthened by an agricultural research and extension project now under pre-
paration. Livestock extension is the responsibility of the Department of
Livestock Development who maintain about 50 field workers in the project area.
Their extension effort would be strengthened under the project by providing
in-service training facilities at the PLB training center and a credit facil-
ity to purchase light motor-cycles. Extension workers would provide technical
assistance in crossbreeding, milk, fodder and crop production and better
land use and cultivation through twice monthly contact with DCS members.
Support to the Punjab Department of Livestock Development
(1) The Production of FMD Vaccine
2.11      Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is pandemic in Pakistan and infection
is most frequent in areas of high livestock density, particularly during the
early kharif and early rabi seasons when draft requirements are at their peak.
It appears probable that some 50% of all cattle are affected by the disease in
any one year. Limited viral typing indicates that strains 0 and Asia I pre-
dominate; type A is common and type C has also been reported. Subtyping has
not been possible to date due to limited facilities. Viral types SAT I and
SAT II have not been detected.
2.12      Mortality among infected stock is reported low, except among young
calves whose mortality rate is said to be as high as 30%. Milk production
in lactating animals with FMD is depressed and lactation yields reduced by
5% to 50%. Crossbred dairy stock, based on indigenous cows mated to exotic
dairy sires, are particularly susceptible to the disease and their protection
by vaccination with trivalent vaccine and preferably tetravalent vaccine, is



- 14 -
regarded as essential. The vaccination of indigenous stock has been commonly
regarded as less important, but an increased appreciation of the serious im-
pact that FMD has on the work capacity of draft animals, coupled with the
coincidence of FMD outbreaks with seasonal peaks in draft power needs, is
leading to a rapid expansion of demand amongst farmers for the vaccination
of draft animals.
2.13      Production of FMD vaccine is carried out at the Veterinary Research
Institute (VRI) in Lahore. The production methods in use, and the physical
capacity of existing equipment, limit production to 60,000 trivalent doses
of vaccine per year, a completely inadequate quantity in relation to existing
demand. The use of tissue culture techniques has become a routine at the VRI
in the production of vaccines for several diseases, and the Institute has
adopted the method on a pilot scale for the production of FMD vaccine. An FMD
production facility of 3 M monovalent doses is the next step required. 1/
2.14      The FMD Component of the Project would:
(a) Train staff to operate a production unit involving the
cultivation of BHK cells in both suspension and monolayer.
(b) Design and construct a production unit of 3 M monovalent
doses per annum, capable of easy expansion to about 20 M
doses per annum.
(c) Intensify survey work on FMD viral types and subtypes.
(d) Plan and implement field trials to assess the impact that
adequate FMD vaccination produces on draft capacity,
agricultural output and livestock production.
(ii)      Artificial Insemination
2.15      The Department of Livestock Development, Government of the Punjab
operates a Sub-Directorate of Artificial Insemination to improve the genetic
quality of the cattle and buffalo in the Punjab. The AI wing of the Livestock
Department consists of a central semen production facility which distributes
frozen semen to 60 centers and 100 sub-centers in the province. The present
number of inseminations in the Province averages only 2000 per year, 75% of
which are buffalo and 25% cattle.
2.16      The most desirable technique for semen production and distribu-
tion under Pakistani conditions is to distribute frozen semen in bulk from
the central production unit to regional centers, and to then thaw and dilute
this bulk semen for distribution and use at the sub-centers and VLA's. In
this system the very high costs of handling frozen semen are minimized, while
1/   A larger production unit would produce significant economies of
scale but cannot be justified until market demand and the economics
of FMD vaccine use are better established.



- 15 -
the easy and low cost storage of frozen semen is retained. The technology of
this processing and distribution chain is, however, quite new, and while sim-
ple, would need to be adapted to local conditions and would require staff to
be trained in its use. Under the project an intensive AI coverage of the
Shekhupura district, using bulk frozen semen, would be achieved as a prelude
to expanding the service elsewhere. The immediate target would be to provide
a daily AI service at the VLA level throughout the rabi season only as buffalo
and to a lesser extent cattle, show a marked seasonal variation in breeding
patterns with most mating occurring in the October to January period. Semen
distribution centers would be established at the Milk Plant in association
with about six milk cooling centers of the milk plant, each with deep frozen
storage capacity, dilution facilities and specialized laboratory and insemi-
nation staff to supervise the actual insemination operations of the VLA's.
Distribution of semen to the VLA would be provided by the daily milk truck.
2.17      In 1974 the GOP obtained FAO/UNDP assistance for developing a na-
tional AI service. Subsequent financial difficulties of UNDP and delays in
equipment delivery have retarded progress and the future of further UNDP
assistance is uncertain. Bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of Germany
for AI is also under consideration and would involve a new liquid nitrogen
unit and some imported Sahiwal semen from Kenya. Such activities, if even-
tually approved, would be used to develop AI services elsewhere in Pakistan.
Project AI requirements include the promotion of bulk freezing facilities at
the present AI center at Quadarinabad, the training of staff in this new
technology, consultant services, the provision of storage flasks and centers
for semen distribution, some bulk semen imports and the financing of incre-
mental staff.
(iii)     Livestock Research
2.18      The key institution involved in livestock research in the Punjab
is the Livestock Production Research Institute of the Department of Livestock
Development of the Government of the Punjab (GOPa). The headquarters of the
Institute are at Bahadurnagar Livestock Farm. Ten other large livestock
experimental stations of GOPa are distributed throughout the Province
(Map 1).
2.19      Past research work in animal production has been very limited and
concerned primarily with upgrading local cattle, buffalo, sheep and goats.
Pasture and fodder crop improvement has been negligible while improved sys-
tems of livestock and crop management that could interact to the benefit of
both crop and livestock productivity are untried. The optimal integration of
livestock and agricultural practices into a coordinated farm management sys-
tem remains to be achieved, particularly so in relation to the utilization of
leguminous fodder crops for raising soil fertility, improving soil structure
and increasing cereal crop yields. The dry season feed resource for cattle
and buffalo is largely wheat and paddy straw and chopped maize stalks, all
of which are low in protein and of limited feed value. The widespread use
of urea supplemented molasses could greatly improve overall feed quality and
provide the basis for a small beef fattening industry, while simple trials
on the role of mineral supplementation in increasing the low levels of bovine



- 16 -
fertility are urgently required. Saline land reclamation in the Punjab is a
further problem relevant to livestock research as initial crops in salt af-
fected land are useful only for forage purposes. The research component of
the project would focus on these problem areas.
2.20      The Livestock Production Research Institute at Bahadurnagar has
access to some 30,000 acres on Government Livestock Farms and to some 20,000
head of livestock. It has the potential to become a major livestock research
center. Under the project the first steps would be taken to improve the basic
facilities, research program and staff capacity of this Institute. Because
of the lack of Pakistani experience in this field, the research team would be
led by a senior research officer recruited internationally with qualifications,
experience and terms of conditions of appointment satisfactory to IDA. Re-
search work would be carried out on the Bahadurnagar station and the other
livestock farms of the Ministry of Livestock Development.
Training in Animal Production
2.21      The Agricultural University of Lyallpur has 3,500 students, a
staff student ratio of 1:10 and 30 percent of staff with Ph.D's. A degree
in animal husbandry was initiated in 1975 with student intake presently
limited to about 45 per annum because of inadequate staff and accommodation
facilities. The demand for graduates in livestock production and for student
places in the faculty is greatly in excess of present output, and is being
steadily increased by requests for both student places and trained staff
from mid-eastern countries. The University is administratively responsible
to the Chief Minister of the Punjab through the Ministry of Education; the
Governor of the Province is the University Chancellor. The Department of
Livestock Development of GOPa is responsible for sub-professional training
,or livestock -cachnicians; they are presently planning the extension of
present training in disease control to include livestock production.
2.22      Because recent educational policies in agriculture have concentrated
on crop production and veterinary science, training in animal production in
Pakistan is particularly weak. The project would provide for a review of
existing livestock programs by a livestock education consultant acceptable
to the Bank. Subject to the acceptance by GOPa and the Bank of the joint and
specific recommendations of the consultant, this project component would then
provide for the additional training of teaching staff, the purchase of addi-
tional facilities, equipment, books and periodicals for teaching purposes and
the provision of consultant staff to strengthen teaching programs.
Meat Processing
2.23      Existing abattoir facilities in Pakistan are not capable of meeting
international meat trade requirements; they are also inadequate in capacity
for the domestic requirements of the larger cities. Most slaughter opera-
tions are performed on concrete slabs with inadequate hygiene and meat in-
spection, and by-product processing is minimal. The present slaughter facil-
ities in Lahore, owned and operated by the municipality, offer no reasonable
possibilities for improvement. In an attempt to establish better slaughter



- 17 -
and meat quality standards, PLB initiated, early in 1975, a meat slaughter-
ing, processing and retailing operation using a small, leased, municipal
plant near Rawalpindi. Current operations at this plant involve the slaughter
of 30 head of cattle and buffalo a day by PLB for processing into frozen cuts,
minced beef and curry beef. Largely because of the inadequate size of this
plant and unrealistic pricing policies, the costs of this operation have ex-
ceeded revenue. At negotiations an understanding was obtained that PLB would
not suffer financial loss as a result of any further operations required by
Government at Sihala. The project would assist PLB to establish a new
slaughterhouse facility in Lahore capable of meeting export market criteria.
The proposed capacity of the new plant would be 350 head per shift for the
existing butchery trade and 50 head daily for PLB processing and distribution.
The proposed site for the new abattoir meets the basic requirements of proxi-
mity to markets and labor, water and power availability. The plant would be
designed, built and equipped to meet international sanitary standards, in both
meat processing and effluent control, and have chilling space to hold 200 beef
carcases. It would be equipped with meat packaging and blast freezing facil-
ities for 50 head of cattle or buffalo per day, and be capable of processing
all by-products. International consultants would be engaged to draw up equip-
ment specifications and plant design and to supervise plant construction.
Technical assistance would be provided to PLB under the project to operate the
slaughter-house during the first two years of its operation and to train senior
plant management personnel. With the establishment of the new slaughterhouse,
existing cattle and buffalo slaughter sheds would be closed down.
The Milk Plant and the Milk Corporation
2.24      A milk plant of about 25,000 1/day capacity was established in
Lahore with assistance from UNICEF some ten years ago. Until recently this
plant operated under the guidance of the Lahore Milk Board and has processed
about 10,000 1 of fresh milk and 10,000 1 of reconstituted milk daily. This
output has been quite inadequate to meet market demand, while quality control
and the organization of rural milk collection and purchase have not been ade-
quate. GOPa have decided to disband the Lahore Milk Board and to transfer
the present milk plant to PLB. Under the project PLB propose to expand and
operate this plant as a subsidiary corporation in which an equity participa-
tion of the VLA's would be strongly encouraged. The Milk Corporation would
be established according to Company Law of Pakistan and is envisaged as being
a largely farmer directed organization, providing the institutional framework
for milk collection, processing and marketing.
2.25      The incremental fluid milk produced by the VLA's, plus milk deliv-
ered directly to the Lahore plant by non VLA sources each day, is expected to
reach 80,000 liters in year four and 100,000 liters in year five. As milk
production in the Punjab has a marked seasonal variation, a plant capacity of
120,000 1/day in two shifts would be provided under the project. The expan-
sion of the existing milk plant has been planned to minimize early investment
and to improve the cash flow.



- 18 -
2.26      Dairy processing equipment additional to that presently available is
required for receiving, storing, clarifying, chilling, pasteurizing, homogeniz-
ing, standardizing and bottling milk. Processing equipment would also be pro-
vided for butter, ghee, ice cream and yoghurt, and for manufacturing cheese
from surplus milk during the flush season.
Improvement of PLB Farms
2.27      The Government of the Punjab have vested in PLB land use title to
about 10,000 acres of irrigable land in five major farm units. These farms
are operated by individual cultivators on units of about 12.5 acres under
agreements with PLB which stipulate, inter alia, that each farmer shall keep
one breeding cattle cow for each 4 acres of cropland, that all inputs (fer-
tilizer, seeds, pesticides) are provided by PLB and that cultivators retain
50% of all agricultural income and 100% of all livestock income. Key con-
straints to production increases on these farms center on deficiencies in
bullock power and irrigation water. Because of the management control PLB
exercises over these farms, they provide an excellent opportunity to test new
approaches to stimulating agricultural development. PLB visualizes that these
farms provide an excellent training ground for VLA implementation teams, for
testing the impact that FMD vaccine has on the productivity of draft animals,
for investigating the commercial possibilities in livestock fattening and for
intensifying cropping patterns by providing increased irrigation water and
draft power. To this end it is proposed, under the project, to provide in-
vestment funds to PLB to intensify agricultural and livestock production on
these lands. Investment items to be financed include new tubewells, supple-
mental draft power (tractors and equipment) for land levelling and irrigation
canal renovation, and pilot cattle fattening units to add weight to the aged
and thin catle that comprise most slaughter stock.
2.28      Specific development plans for each PLB farm complex have been
prepared by PLB and overall investment costs per acre are estimated at
Rs 1,800. The feasibility study for each PLB farm includes farm investment
plans, management and accountancy procedures to be used, and a schedule for
the recovery of investment costs.
Land Use Mapping
2.29      In order to define and understand more adequately the existing and
potential land use patterns in the project area, the project would provide
funds to the [Survey of Pakistan] for the purchase and processing of seasonal
imagery of key areas of the project taken from Landsat (formerly called the
Earth Resources Technology Satellite), together with funds for the computer
analysis, ground truthing and interpretation of this imagery. Both photo-
graphic and digital imagery records would be processed for a central project
area of about 5 million acres during the wet and dry seasons. Pertinent land
use/land cover categories would be selected based on ground truthing activities
utilizing film products at the 1:250,000 scale; land use patterns would then
be categorized by analysis of the satellite computer tapes and tabulated on a
District basis. Cultural features (roads, railways, towns, political bound-
aries) would be overlaid at a scale of 1:250,000 using existing topographic
maps of the area.



- 19 -
c.   Costs Estimates
2.30      Project costs are estimated at Rs 169.5 M (US$17.1) excluding taxes
which amount to Rs 25.5 M (US$2.6). The foreign exchange component is 59% of
project costs net of taxes. Physical and price contingencies account for
Rs 39 M (US$3.9) or 23% of project costs.   Cost estimates for each subcom-
ponent of the project are outlined in Table 1.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---- Million Rs.-----   ---- Million US$ ----
VLA Development                  2.70      1.32    4.02    .27        .13     .40
FMD Vaccine                      6.14    14.62   20.76    .62    1.48    2.10
Al Services                        .22     3.64    3.86    .02        .37     .39
Livestock Research                1.72     2.88    4.60    .17        .29     .46
Livestock Training               2.08      6.22    8.30    .21        .63    0.84
Slaughter-house                 18.69    24.48   43.17   1.90    2.47    4.37
Milk Plant                       12.16    16.57   28.73   1.24    1.67    2.91
PLB Farms                        4.68      5.48   10.16    .47        .56    1.03
PLB Training Center              5.09       .83    5.92    .51        .08     .59
Landsat Survey                     .10       .90    1.00    .01       .09     .10
Total Before Contingencies    53.58    76.94  130.52   5.42    7.77   13.19
Contingencies:
-  Physical                    2.97      4.06   7.03    0.30    0.41    0.71
-  Price                      12.77    19.21  31.98    1.41    1.82    3.23
Sub-total                       15.74    23.27  39.01    1.71    2.23    3.94
Total Before Taxes              69.32   100.21 169.53    7.13   10.00   17.13
Taxes and Duties                25.47       -    25.47    2.57        -      2.57
Total Project Cost              94.79   100.21 195.00    9.70   10.00   19.70



- 20 -
2.31      Cost estimates are based on February 1976 prices.  Physical contin-
gencies of 5% are provided on the construction costs of the proposed slaughter-
house and milk plant, as well as for the PLB training center and on other
civil works; physical contingencies for the Al equipment and the FMD vaccine
laboratory have been added at the rate of 10%. An allowance of 20% for spare
parts for processing machinery and transport items has also been added. Price
contingencies for equipment, services and civil works are based on expected
price increases and provided as follows:
Compound Rate-                       Percent
1977     1978      1979      1980
Equipment and Services       12        21       31        40
Civil Works                  19        33       49        64
/a   Based on inflation rates of:   1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Equipment and services  %       10      8     8      8     7
Civil works               %     14    12    12    12    10
Proposed Financing
2.32      Details of the financing plan are shown in Table 2.  The Bank
would finance 59% of project costs (US$10.0 M).,which is equivalent to the
foreign exchange component of the project. The financing of total project
costs would be as follows:



- 21 -
Loan     Working
Funds    Capital                   %
GOPa.   VLA   C.Bs.    C.Bs.        Bank   Total  Bank
----------------- Thousand US$  --------------------
VLA Development         165    100    -           -        180      445    40
FMD Vaccine             955     -      -          -      1,810   2,765    66
AI Services              25     -      -          -        380      405    94
Livestock Research    240       -      -          -        390      630    62
Livestock Training    180       -      -          -      1,030   1,210    85
Slaughter-house      1,000      -  1,590         50      3,120   5,760    54
Milk Plant              650     -    900         175     1,985   3,710    54
PLB Farms               -       -    605         -         835   1,440    58
PLB Training Center   490       -    105         -         170      660    26
Landsat Survey           -      -    -            -        100      100   100
Total (US$'000)      3,705   100  3,095         225    10,000  17,125
Taxes                1,320    60  1,190          -         -      2,570
Total After Taxes   5,025   160  4,285          225    10,000  19,695
% of Total
after taxes        26      1     22          1        50
before taxes       22      1     18          1        58
2.33      The proposed Bank loan of US$10 M would provide about 59% of total
project costs net of tax. GOPa would provide about US$5 M equivalent, 26%
of total costs. The commercial banks would also provide about US$5 M equiv-
alent. Approximately 1% of total costs wold be contributed by VLA's. Suf-
ficient credit funds for the needs of the project are available in the com-
mercial banking system.
2.34      The Bank loan would be made to GOP who would make the Bank funds
available to GOPa on the same terms. The sum of US$5.9 M representing Bank
funds to be used for the milk and meat processing units and for the PLB farms,
would be made available by GOPa under a subsidary loan agreement to the PLB
for a 10 year loan at 8.75% including 4 years grace period. It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that subsidiary loan agreements between GOP
and GOPa had been executed. The capital investment originating from the Bank
for the FMD vaccine laboratory, AI services and livestock research and exten-
sion (US$2.30 M), for the PLB training center (US$0.2 M), for livestock edu-
cation (US$1.3 M) and for the VLA's (US$0.2 M) would be made available as
incremental budgetary allocations by GOPa to the Department of Livestock
Development, the PLB, and the University. Funds for the provision and inter-
pretation of satellite imagery (US$0.1 M), would be used to contract the
services of the Survey of Paskistan.
2.35      The establishment of the Milk Corporation, the new meat processing
unit and improvement of the PLB farms would require the provision of Rs 17.1 M
in equity capital to be provided by GOPa and about Rs 40.0 M in loan funds to



- 22 -
PLB to be provided by GOPa through the commercial banking system; suitable
assurances were obtained that GOPa would provide the capital needed. The
subsequent purchase of the share capital of the Milk Corporation by the VLA's
would be financed through membership contributions and accumulated reserves
(see para 3.13). Working capital requirements for the meat and milk process-
ing plants (Rs 0.5 M and Rs 1.7 M respectively), would be obtained from com-
mercial banks at prevailing interest rates (about 12% p.a.). The operating
and maintenance costs for the slaughterhouse (Rs 9.3 M) and the milk plant
(Rs 43.0 M) would be financed from the processing margins on the raw milk and
slaughter animals purchased.
2.36      Start up and equipment costs for the VLA's approximate Rs 4.8 M.
Assurances were obtained that the funds required would be advanced on a loan
basis to each VLA by GOPa. Operation costs of the VLA's (Rs 10.5 M) would be
financed directly by each Association; the PLB would be responsible for the
incremental operating costs of its farms and GOPa would support the PLB
training center.
e.   Procurement
2.37      The processing and transport equipment for the slaughterhouse
(US$1.9 M) 1/ and the dairy plant (US$1.8 M) 1/, the equipment required by the
University, Research, AI and FMD units (US$2.0 M) 1/, and the civil works con-
tract for the slaughter-house (US$1.1 M) would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Bids from
domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of 15% or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
2.38      For the construction of the Lahore slaughter-house and the expansion
of the Milk Plant, PLB would employ international consultants, acceptable to
the Bank, to draw up specifications of equipment and layouts for the plant.
These plans and specifications would be used to issue invitations for interna-
tional tenders for plant construction. The phasing of the construction of the
civil works, and the purchase and installation of the service utilities and
processing equipment would be plannned by the consultants who would also
assist in preparing bid documents, in evaluating bids and in supervision of
the construction process.
2.39      International Competitive Bidding would not apply to:
(i) civil works, other than the slaughter plant (US$1.3 M),
because of their small size and scattered locations.
Contracts for these would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Local contractors are numerous and capable of
carrying out such works;
1/   Excluding contingencies.



- 23 -
(ii)  certain items required urgently at the beginning of the
project - some vehicles, office machines and laboratory
equipment and other items of small value with a unit cost
of less than US$0.01 M - would be purchased through normal
trade channels following government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory. Foreign suppliers of most items
are well represented through local agents and competition
is keen.
(iii)  farm machinery and equipment for the PLB farms and VLA's
(US$0.8 M) which would be purchased direct from local
suppliers. Because of the small size of the items required
and the necessity to enable buyers to acquire only makes for
which service and repair facilities are readily available,
bulking and competitive bidding procedures for these items
would not be practical. Local and foreign manufacturers of
equipment are adequately represented and goods are compe-
titively priced.
2.40      Suitable assurances were obtained that Bank funds provided for
technical assistance (US$1.05 M) would be contracted in accordance with
IDA guidelines for selection of consultants, and that training fellowships
(US$0.24 M) would be undertaken under terms of reference agreeable to the
Bank. Satellite imagery (US$0.1 M) would be purchased directly from NASA.
The balance of project costs is made up of working capital and incremental
staff costs (US$0.8 M), taxes (US$2.5 M), and by contingencies (US$3.2 M).
2.41      PLB would be the procurement agent for all VLA, Milk Corporation,
Meat Processing and PLB farm items financed by the project. Procurement of
Research, AI and FMD and training items would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Livestock Development.
2.42      Assurances were obtained that for all contracts in excess of
US$50,000 technical specifications and draft tender documents would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for approval before bidding documents are issued and bid
evaluations would be submitted to the Bank before making the awards.
f.   Disbursement
2.43      Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan 1/ would cover:-
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported machinery
and equipment, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
or 60% of local expenditures for imported equipment and
machinery procured locally for the Lahore slaughterhouse
and milk plant (US$3.0 M);
(b) 100% of total expenditures for overseas training, con-
sultants and satellite imagery (US$1.4 M);
1/   Excluding contingencies.



- 24 -
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported machinery
and equipment, or 100% of the local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), or 60% of local expenditures for imported machinery
and equipment procured locally and required by VLA's, the
education program, the AI, FMD vaccine and livestock re-
search services, the PLB tenant farms and PLB training
centers (US$2.3 M);
(d) 50% of local expenditures or 100% of foreign expenditures
for civil works performed under contract and under force
account (US$1.3 M);
2.44      Disbursements for civil works performed under force account would be
made against a statement of expenditures with the supporting documentation re-
tained by the Borrower and held available for inspection during the course of
Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. Any amounts of the Bank loan not used for the project would
be cancelled. A schedule of estimated disbursement is given in Table 2.
g.   Accounts and Audit
2.45      Assurances were obtained that, in addition to regular accounts,
all participating project units, 1/ including the Government Departments,
would keep separate accounts and records adequate to identify expenditure
and progress made under the project and that PLB's accounts would be audited
by a firm of auditors satisfactory to the Bank, appointed in agreement with the
Auditor General of the Province of the Punjab. The accounts of Government
agencies and the University would be audited by the Auditor General. Copies
of all summary project accounts and records would be forwarded to the Project
Coordination Committee and be made available to the Bank on request.
2.46      Suitable assurances were obtained that within six months of the end
of the financial year, copies of PLB consolidated audited accounts, and sepa-
rate accounts for the slaughter and milk processing operations and PLB farms,
would be submitted to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that compre-
hensive audits would be carried out in a manner acceptable to the Bank and
that audited accounts and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank as soon
as possible but not later than six months from the end of the financial
year.
2.47      Accounts of the VLA's would be kept and controlled according to the
prevailing rules and regulations governing small company accounting. Four -
monthly accounts would be submitted by the VLA's to the PLB for auditing, PLB
would check and summarize these accounts and make them available to Bank super-
vision missions.
1/   VLA's, the VRI, the AI Service, the Livestock Research Service, the
University of Lyallpur, the PLB Farms, the Meat Plant, the Milk Plant,
the Survey of Pakistan, the consolidated accounts of PLB.



- 25 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
a.   Project Coordination
3.01      The project calls for major contributions by two government agen-
cies, the Departmnent of Livestock Development and the PLB which is also
responsible to the Minister of Livestock Development. The responsibilities
of each agency are specific; nevertheless the effectiveness of the project
will depend upon the adequate coordination of the efforts of each agency. To
assure this, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) has been established to
be responsible for coordination, liaison with,the Federal Government, and for
project supervision and monitoring. The PCC is established under the autho-
rity and on behalf of the Chief Minister of the Province of Punjab. The
Chairman of the PCC is to be nominated by the Chief Minister; members of the
Committee include the nominees of the Department of Finance, the Department
of Planning and Development, the Department of Livestock Development, the
University of Lyallpur, the PLB, the Animal Husbandry Commissioner of the
Government of Pakistan arid jointly the 5 major Commercial Banks and the
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). Representatives of other
agencies and/or programs are to be co-opted as and when required but would not
be permanent Committee members.  The committee will have a small secretariat
led by a senior officer seconded from the Department of Livestock Development
of GOPa to handle administrative matters. The responsibilities of the Com-
mlittee and the terms of reference of its Secretary are detailed in Appendix 4,
page 1. The organization of the PCC is outlined in Chart 1.
b.   The Project Component
The VLA's
3.02      The basis for project development and implementation are the VLA's.
Their organization and responsibilities would be patterned on the saccess-
ful village lairy societies established elsewhere in South Asia.  Sample by-
laws are detailed in Appendix 1. The VLA's would be organized by specially
selected and trained staff recruited, trained and supervised by PLB. The
composition and training program for these teams is outlined in Appendix 3.
VLA's would be registered under Company law. Although a farmer organization,
the initial operations of each VLA would be supported financially by Govern-
ment which would provide, through PLB at a cost of Rs 2,500 per VLA, the two
months of training and subsequent first two months salary of VLA staff.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would finance on a grant basis
the training costs and that the VLA's will be formed under statutes and reg-
uilations acceptable to the Bank.  Staff composition and the training program
for the VLA implementation teams are shown in Appendix 3. Working capital
needs of VLA's would be s,aall as the Milk Plant would pay the VLA weekly and
the VLA would pay members at a frequency to be decided by the VLA annual
meeting. Application of the annual surplus would be governed by the VLA
bylaws. A substantial part of the expected annual surplus would be used to
purchase additional shares in the proposed Milk Corporation (see para 3.13
and Table 11).



- 26 -
3.03      VLA accounts would be maintained by the society secretary who would
also supervise milk collection, record members milk deliveries and compute and
disburse payments to each member. Bimonthly profit and loss accounts would be
prepared. VLA staff would be trained at the PLB training center using funds
supplied by GOPa. Managerial assistance would be available to each VLA from
the PLB field staff. The accounts of each VLA would be audited each four
months and the results and financial position of the VLA communicated to
members at least twice yearly.
3.04      A central function of the VLA would be to provide a milk marketing
service. VLA's would collect milk twice daily at a central collection point
in the village. The quantity delivered by each farmer would be recorded
and payment based on fat content with fat testing carried out in the VLA
using daily samples. Milk would be bulked in 40 litre cans and transported
to the Central Milk Plant along defined milk routes, organised by the Plant,
serving 10-15 VLA's. As the maximum time between first pick up and milk cool-
ing cannot exceed four hours, six regional chilling centres would be provided
for the more distant routes. These would be managed and financed by the Milk
Plant.
3.05      A daily delivery of semen would be made to each VLA by means of the
milk collection truck.  Inseminations would be made by VLA staff who would
receive support in this function from the Government AI service.
3.06      The VLA's would also be the centres for an expanded extension ser-
vice. Although small farmers have not been the 'leaders' in adopting the
'Green Revolution' technology, which is explainable in terms of their risk
aversion and lack of investible funds, their use of new crop technology is
now significant. They are, however, constrained in the adoption of the next
round of technological improvements, such as input complementarities, most
profitable cropping patterns and optimum resource combinations by insufficient
managerial skill and inadequate extension services.
3.07      Under the project selected extension staff would be assigned specific-
ally to carry out project extension work. It is estimated that a total of 65
field assistants (route extension workers) would be required. They would be
assigned to specific VLAs in the ratio of 1 extension worker to 8 to 10
associations, and would be responsible for the demonstration and dissemination
of specific and high impact advice developed by senior extension staff with
the help of PLB and the Agricultural University. To facilitate their task,
field staff would receive a credit guarantee from PLB to purchase a light
motorcycle. Prior to their assignment the selected extension staff would
receive specific basic training at the PLB training centre, thereafter they
would participate in bi-weekly training courses of one day duration. Super-
vision of the field staff would rest with about eight extension officers each
responsible for eight field staff and under the direction of the field manager
of PLB specifically assigned to the project. Suitable assurances were ob-
tained that the Department of Livestock Development would provide this inten-
sified extension service to VLA's.



- 27 -
3.08      The credit needs of VLA members would be served by the five larg-
-. t commercial banks (CB) 1/. The CB's were nationalized in 1973 and each CB
niow has an aanual lending target allocated by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)
for both short and long term agricultural loans covering seasonal inputs,
cattle, tractors, tubewells and land improvement. All five major CB's have
agricultural credit departments and basically sound lending criteria. The
financial, organizational and managerial capacity of Agricultural Development
Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) is currently being strengthened with IDA guidance.
The National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) has started a special agricultural credit
scheme, centered on Lahore, which provides an intensively supervised credit
and contract service program for smaller farmers. Current interest rates [or
this scheme are 12% p.a. Commercial Bank rates Foc agricultural lending
are 2% above the inter Bank rate of 9%.
3.09      The incremental demand for seasonal credit froai tle CB's, as a result
of the Project, is expected to amount to Rs 3 M annually, a sum well within
the capacity of the existirg target lending programs of the banking system.
The Department of Livestock Development
3.10      General livestock service functions to be developed under the pro-
ject, i.e. AI, vaccine production and use, livestock research and siuh-proEe>s-
sional training, are the responsibility of the Department of Livestock Develop-
ment. The basic organization of each of these units of the Ministry is ade-
quately e3tablished and the project would provide support to strenlgthen these
units. Assurances were obtained that, For the implementation of the FMD vac-
cine component the Department, through GOPa, would, within six months of proj-
ect effectiveness, engage an internationally recogaized firmn experienced in
FMD vaccine production. This firm, under terms of reference as shown in
Appendix 3 and under conditions acceptable to IDA, would design the vaccine
laboratory, decide upon equipment and staff training requirements and assist
in the supervision of laboratory establishment and initial operations. AI
services would also be expanded and incorporate the new technology of bulk
frozen semen, using overseas staff training and constiltant services to be
employed within six months of credit eFfectiveness, and with qualifications
and terms and condit Loris of employment acceptable to the Bank. The live-
stock research problems of priority in project implementation (para 2.19)
would be identified using consultant research assistance and research work
would be expanded. Assurances were obtained that GOPa will undertake to
prepare a five year research program within six months of the appoiatment
of the internationally recruited research leader. Disbursement of funds
would be conditional of Biank approval of the program.
The PLB
3.11      Commercial activities promoted under the project  i.e. the Lahore
milk plant, the Lahore slaughterhouse and the development of PLB livestock
farms, would be the responsibility of PLB. The chairman of the Board is
1/   National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), Habib Bank Ltd. (IBL), United Bank
Ltd. (UBL), Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL), and TIoslem Commercial Bank (MCB).



- 28 --
the Minister of Livestock Development and the equity capital of PLB is en-
tirely of Government origin. The Directors of the PLB consist of four gov-
ernment nominees, four appointed from the private sector by the Chief
Secretary of the Government, and a nominated Managing Director. The Enabling
Act (February 1, 1974) provides for the Board to form, subscribe to and manage
subsidiary companies, to borrow commercial money and to implement livestock
development proposals in association with the private sector. PLB began
operations in November 1974 and now has 17 projects under implementation.
3.12      The PLB, as an autonomous commercial organization, has its own
budget and accounts. At the time of appraisal the Board's accounting pro-
cedures were not adequate. An audited set of accounts for the period ending
Ularch 31, 1976, has subsequently been prepared and made available to the Bank.
Since project appraisal more stringent financial controls have been intro-
duced by PLB, and loss making operations either terminated or extensively
revised. The losses that have previously occurred in the Rawalpindi meat
processing plant originate, in large part, from the inadequate size of the
processing operation and inadequate sale prices. These losses are to be made
good by GOPa. Substantial head office costs of PLB have been associated with
extensive project planning and are also to be met by a GOPa grant. The
farming operations of PLB have been profitable and are to be expanded. With
the recent improvement in the financial control prodecures and financial
status of PLB, Bank support to this organization is now warranted; assurances
were obtained that GOPa will ensure continuing quality management to PLB and
thnat GOPa will provide PLB with the incremental budget required for the Board
to undertake its functions under the project.
The Milk Plant
3.13     A separate government owned Milk Board of Lahore has been responsible
for the Lahore Milk Plant, but the charter of this Board has now lapsed and
its functions and assets have been assigned to PLB. To enable the VLA's to
assume a steadily increasing role in the control of the market chain for their
milk, the PLB is in the process of establishing a subsidiary companiy under
by-laws acceptable to the Bank (Appendix 2) - the Lahore Milk Corporation -
to own and operate the modified aqd enlarged milk plant. The initial equity
capital of this organization would be largely Government and PLB owned but
assurances were obtained that the Articles of Association of the Milk Corpor-
ation would stipulate that VLAs sending milk to the plant on a regular basis,
would have the right to buy at least 50% of the total equity capital at par
value. Operating surpluses for the Milk Corporation are expected from year 1
as a functional milk plant would be taken over (Table 15). Articles of
Association of the Milk Corporation would require that 25% of the net income
in each year be automatically transferred to a Reserve Fund and up to 80% of
the balance to be returned to VLA's as a patronage bonus. Income tax would be
assessed on all profits. By year nine it is expected that the VLA's would
have a 50% interest in the Corporation. A key requirement of the by-laws
governing the Corporation's operations would provide for the constitution of
an 11 member board of directors on wh'ich VLA representation steadily increases
as VLA equity participation is increased.



- 29 -
3.14      Suitable assurances were obtained that at the initiation of this
project component, consultants satisfactory to the Bank would be engaged to
supply a package of services as follows:
(a) preparation of complete engineering specifications and
tender documents for new construction, renovations aad
and for new equipment within the framework of two non-
exclusive contracts. The first would be a civil works
contract, the second would require the contractor to equip
th',e plant on a turn-key basis. The specifications and
documents for these contracts would be subject to approval
by t'ae Bank.
(b)  analyses of the contract bids received and recoin,aendatiori
to Plant Management on the most appropriate proposal,
including legal and technical advice on thie contractual
arrangements;
(c)  supervision of the constriction of the plant to assure the
contractor's fulfillnment nf specifications, witnessing
start-up and trial runs:
{d)  for the start up period of two years the plant's gener;a
mnanager would be recruited internationally, with qualifi-
cations and terms and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Bank.
The Lahore Slaughterhouse
3.15      The new slaughter-house would he established as an autonomous,
commercial division of PUB, with separate accounts and audit, and under the
overall supervision of PLB. For its design and development PLB w'ild employ
international consultants, experieniced in the design and construction of meat
processing plants, to draw up the broad specifications of equipment and lay-
out. These plans and specifications would be issued as invitations for inter-
national tenders to construct the civil works of the plant and to equip the
plant on a turn-key basis. Assurances have been obtained that consultants
satisfactory to the Bank would be recruited to assist PLB in the plant design,
evaluation of tenders and supervise, on PT.B behalf, plant construction and
start up. Further assurances were obtained that the general manager aad
operations manager of the plant would be recruited with qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment accepi:-alle to the Bank.  Assurances were
also obtained that after completion of the new slaughterhouse in Lahore
existing municipal cattle and buffalo slaughter sheds would be closed down.
Livestock Education
3.16      Because important weaknesses exist in the present curriculum of
livestock training, as well as in physical facilities, a condition of dis-
blirsement of the traininyg e )ltuponent of the project would be that a review
of the Lives>) k tcaining program had been completed by a consultant or



- 30 -
consultants acceptable to the Bank and that the agricultural university, GOPa
and the Bank had agreed on a specifc program of livestock education to be
developed under the project.
Technical Assistance
3.17      Implementation of the project and its different sub-components would
require the use of consultants as well as the overseas training of Pakistani
staff. Financial provision has been made under the project for the engagement
of both national and expatriate consultants. Funds for a total of 20 man years
of consultancy staff (US$1 M, i.e. US$50,000 per man year) and 24 man years
of fellowships (US$0.24 M) have been provided for the project. TORs for all
consultants are outlined in Appendix 3.
3.18      The project implementation schedule is outlined in Chart 5.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19      The Project Coordination Committee would have as one of its specific
responsibilities the task of ensuring effective and prompt project monitoring
and evaluation, and would carry out this monitoring and evaluation by using
its own staff and/or by using consultant staff engaged for this purpose. The
purpose of this monitoring and evaluation is inter alia: to maintain a conti-
nuous check on (i) the progress of the project and its rate of disbursement;
(ii) the actual expenditures undertaken; (iii) the levels of incremental out-
put achieved; (iv) the prices paid and received for project inputs and outputs;
and (v) the contribution of the project to the designated beneficiaries and to
the economy of Pakistan. An outline of the quarterly reporting procedure
agreed to at credit negotiations is attached as Appendix 5.
3.20      The project implementation and disbursement schedules provide the
basic timetable for the initiation and completion of key project activities.
It would be the task of the monitoring and evaluation staff to record progress
in achieving this schedule, to report to PCC the reasons for any significant
divergence in actual and predicted project performance and investment targets
and to prepare and submit to PCC and the Bank quarterly project progress
reports.



- 31 -
IV. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Yields, Production and Farm models
4.01      The monthly demand for labor, bullock power and irrigation water
on a small farm growing a typical mixture of crops is summarized in chart 3.
Large variations in the seasonal demand on resources characterize the farming
pattern. Optimal farm management patterns have been calculated using linear
programming in association with alternative assumptions regarding the avail-
ability of labour, water and bullock power and differing input and product
prices. The results of this exercise strongly emphasize the important role
that milk sales play in increasing the income of small farmers; they also
confirm that increases in cropping intensity are critically dependent upon
increasing the draft capacity of the working bullocks which supply most farm
draft power.
4.02      Project induced increases in agricultural and livestock production
would accrue principally from the formation and operation of approximately 500
VLA's involving 45,000 farmers and 15,000 landless milk producers. The VLA's
would double the number and augment and productivity of draft cattle in each
VLA and thereby enable an increase in cropping intensity from 110% to 130% to
occur; they would also promote increased milk production and marketing and
thereby generate increases in farm incomes that would be used, in part, for
increasing the purchase and use of crop inputs, as well as a focal point
for a much more effective extension service supported by a strengthened
livestock research and educational program. Increases in production also
would occur on some 10,000 ac of PLB tenant farms. The expected build up rate
and increase in farm production is as follows:
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5  Year 8   Year 12
Expected Number of VLA's    50    150        300   500    500      500       500
Expected Number of
Members of VLA              50     85      110   130    130      130       130
Expected Production
Increase per Members
as % Farm Target            10%    20%     30%   45%    65%    100%       100%
Expected Production
Increase per VLA            5%    15%      20%   35%    50%       90%     100%
Expected Production
Increase Project Area        1%     5%     10%   15%    20%       55%     100%
4.03      Projected yield increases have been based on the experience of bet-
ter farmers in the project area. Although actual differences in yield between
average and better farms in the project area differ by as much as three-fold



- 32 -
(para 1.04), project induced yield increases, (Table 3) have been limited to
an increase of about 25% of present yields for major crops, and to a 100%
increase per unit area for livestock products. The present and projected
land use pattern and crop yields in the project area are as follows: 1/
Present      Future Without Project   Future With Project
Area /a  Yield /b    Area      Yield            Area      Yield
Wheat           40      0.54          43      0.75           61        0.75
Basmati Rice   20       0.80          20      0.85           20        0.96
IRRI Rice        7      1.08           3      1.1             0        1.3
Maize            3      0.54           6      0.7            12        0.75
Oilseeds         1      0.20           1      0.25            1        0.33
Gram             2      0.20           2      0.25            3        0.33
Cotton           3      0.4            3      0.43            4        0.45
Sugar           4      11.0          3.5     14.6             5       16.0
Berseem          6      9.8          6.5        9             8       12.8
Kharif Fodder  14       6.0          14       7.3            17       12.0
Milk           100      0.183       100      0.250          100        0.400
Liveweight    100       0.033       100      0.045          100        0.063
/a  As % of 304,000 acres.
/b   Tons/ac.
4.04      Financial prices projected for each farm product are tabulated in
Table 4 and the economic prices used are shown in Table 5. Projected finan-
cial prices reflect the expectation of the Bank that GOP will steadily reduce
the presently large difference between farm gate prices and the border prices
for Pakistan's internationally traded farm goods. Projected economic prices
are based on Bank Group projections of commodity prices modified to meet the
particular quality characteristics of Pakistan's farm products.
4.05      The farms themselves can be grouped into four size units each typ-
ifying large sections of the farming community in the project area. The
farm models used in projecting project yields are:
(1)  Landless farmer owning buffalo for milk production.
(2)  3.5 ac of land, accounting for 43% of participants, 30% of land
(3)  7.5 ac of land, accounting for 28% of participants, 41% of land
(4)  35.0 ac of land, accounting for 4% of participants, 29% of land.
4.06      The expected financial cash flow of each farm model is derived from
present patterns of livestock numbers, productivity and cropping patterns
in the project area as indicated by data from land revenue and census records,
1/   Farm budget calculations are based on metric measurement to facilitate
computer analysis but the text description is expressed in non-metric
measurements to conform to Pakistani usage.



- 33 -
and from information supplied by the Departments of Livestock and Agriculture.
Details of the cropping pattern crop yields crop budgets, seed, fertilizer,
labor, water and bullock power demand, and crop prices are summarized in
Tables 3 and 4.
4.07      Herd projections for a typical VLA are summarized in Tables 6 and 7,
and projected livestock production arid income is shown in Table 8.  At full
development, and due to project actions, the annual incremental production of
milk would amount to 45,000 tons, liveweight sales to 5,500 tons, and wheat to
34,600 tons (Table 9).  Smaller increases in cotton, maize and pulse crops
would also occur.  The herd projections of tables 6 and 7 indicate that a
s&bstantial increase in bullock numbers would result from the improvement in
bovine fertility and the lowering of calf mortality that the project would
produce; this increase would be about 3 times larger than thnat actually need-
ed to provide the incremental requireTments for draft power.  Surplus draft
animals would find a ready market in other parts of the Punjab. At full
development the value of increrqental farm production at farm gate, financial
prices, over that expected without the project, is estimated at Rs 72.3 M.
About 70% of incremental production would be attributable to farms of 7.5 ac
or less.
Market Prospects
4.08      Pakistan is short of foodgrai[is, oilseeds, meat and milk and there
would be no difficulty in aarketing the increased agricultural production of
the project. Current per caput annual consumption levels for meat and milk
in Pakistan are low at 4.9 kg and 51 1. respectively, and wheat is a major
import item. Absorption of the incremental milk production is, however,
dependent upon the establishment of an improved milk collection system and
an expansion of milk processing capacity by the project. Market demand for
hygienically processed milk greatly exceeds present supplies. The incre-
mental meat supply would be absorbed by the existing marketing facilities
strengthened by a new slaughterhouse to be constructed under the project.
In the event that export market demand for 'beef improves, greater price
incentives for this product would be feasible and a largely unutilized
resource of male buffalo calves could then contribute further to project
output.
4.09      To achieve the projected production and yields, farmers will require
modest increases in supplies of fertilizer. At full development, incremental
fertilizer usage in the project area would be about 6500 tons of unit nitrogen
and 4000 tons of unit phosphorous, roughlly double present usage. Farmers in
the project area are familiar with the use of fertilizer and existing credit
and supply channels, and sales points, are adequate to provide this amount.



- 34 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01      In computing the net farm income for each farm model the cash out-
flow in living expenses for the family has been regarded as a fixed cost
assessed at Rs 1,650 per year. The average family provides about 3 labor
units for Earm operations. Farm labor requirements in excess of this level
have been regarded as an incremental production cost and charged at Rs 10 per
man/day, the prevailing lahor rate.  Farmers with more than about 12.5 ac were
found to need to employ increasing amounts of hired labor as productiol is in-
tensified; this labor is supplied mainly by landless farmers whose income is
thereby increased. Water charges are based on a classification of land accord-
ing to its potential productivity. Tn practice they approximate Rs 20 per
crop acre per year. Additional land revenue charges are payable by farmers
with more than 12.5 ha. They are also determined by the inrlec of land
productivity for each farm and soil type, and approcirnate Rs 15 per ac.
The annual requirements of draft power and of water and labor requirements per
unit area of crop are summarized itn Tables 3 and 7. Incremental bullock
power requirements arising from the project have been costed in farm budgets
at Rs 10 per day.
5.02      The financial benefits at the farm level Lor the four basic farm
models may be summarized as follows:
Present              Future
With project Without project
 ---------------  Rupees  --------------
1.   Landless farmer              330         1,340              580
2.   3.5 ac farmer              2,030         3,730            2,750
3.   7.0 ac farmer              4,100          7,360           5,670
4.   35.0 ac farmer            20,200        37,250           24,530
5.03      As a result o. project activities the net income of all four repre-
sentative farming groups would show a substantial increase (Table 10).  The
income oL landless farmers would quadruple as a result of increased i,lilk pro-
duction.  Incremental labor demands from larger farmers undertaking riore
intensive cropping would also increase existing incomne for landless families.
Farm labor requirements for the project area are expected to increase by 6,000
man years, an incremental 16% (Table 9).
5.04      In assessing the finanicial situation of a typical VLA, the cash
position of the VLA is based upon its milk collection operations. No account
has been taken of the incremental agricultural or meat production that the
functioning of a VLA is expected to lead to as income from these sources of
production passes directly to the farmer. The projected cash flow of a
typical 'VLA, showing the source and use of funds, is summarized in Tahle 10.



- 35 -
The VLAs are expected to show a cash surplus as early as year I (Rs 8,000)
nd to increase this surplus to about Rs 20,000 in year 11. The financial
rate of return of a typical VLA is expected to be over 100%.
5.05      Investment costs of the expanded milk plant are estimated at Rs 33
M (Tale 12).  Projected sales from the modernized milk plant have been held
constant at about 100,000 liters daily from year 5 onwards, as an increase in
plant capacity would then be required. Based upon retail milk prices of Rs 2
per 1. for 3% for milk (current prices for unadulterated fresh milk are about
Rs 3 per 1.), the cash flow of the plant is positive from year one, and shows
a ROR (F) of 20%. Details are in Tables 12-14.
5.06      The proposed meat plant requires an investment of about Rs 53.5 M
within which an initial equity position of Rs 10 million by PLB and GOPa would
be required. Sales from the plant are expected from year 3, with production
from year 4 being constant without further expansion or double shift working.
Given this capital and operating structure, and at existing beef prices
(cattle purchase Rs 2.5/kg and curry beef sales at Rs 5.4/kg) the ROR (F) for
the plant is expected to be 12.6%. Details are in Tables 15-18. Should an
export market develop and/or prices rise, the returns to the meat plant could
increase substantially.
5.07      The financing of the training facilities, vaccine production, AI
and research would be by budgetary allocation from Government. The outflow
of GOPa funds for project purposes would reach a maximum cumulative deficit
balance of Rs 172 M in year 4 (Table 19). By year 5 incremental tax revenue
and loan repayment from PLB would cause a net inflow to Government revenue,
and by year 14 the cumulative balance of the cash flow of Government for
project purposes would be positive. The increase in agricultural production
brought about by the project would also have a major indirect effect on Gov-
ernment revenues since the economic cost of imported food grains is almost
twice the financial cost of locally procured grain. Incremental wheat and
maize production - about 40,000 tons - would therefore represent a saving of
some Rs 3 M annually. A change in the present GOP policy of providing vac-
cines to farmers at no cost would further enhance government revenues.



- 36 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
6.01      The major components of the proposed project - the formation of
VLA's, the improvement of market services, vaccine production, research and
extension - are interdependent, and the benefit from any one of the components
is largely contingent on the successful implementation of the package as a
whole. It is desirable therefore, to evaluate the project in toto. Addi-
tionally, to the extent possible, the benefits and costs associated with each
project component have been analyzed separately.
The VLA's
6.02      The VLA component of the project would directly benefit about 45,000
agricultural households, most of whom farm less than 3.5 ac, plus 15,000 land-
less families. As a shortage of draft power provides a key constraint to
increasing cropping intensity and agricultural development in the Punjab, a
most important objective of the project is to increase the number and quality
of draft animals available. The improvement in the productivity of draft
cattle under the project would be complemented by improvements in milk and
beef production, while the incremental farm income that increased livestock
sales would generate is expected to enable farmers, with extension advice,
to increase their use of crop inputs and thereby achieve greater yields.
Small tenant and landless farmers are expected to be particularly favored by
livestock development activities because share tenancy agreements stipulate a
division between owner and tenant of crop output only, with the tenant retain-
ing all livestock income. Where tenancy agreements stipulate, as all PLB
agreements do, that the land-owner provides seeds, fertilizer and water at no
charge to the tenant, the incentive to increase agricultural as well as live-
stock production is also large. Social benefits in each village in which a
VLA is established, would be derived from the VLA operating surpluses used to
augment or initiate village development schemes in education, health and minor
public works. Further benefits would accrue from an increased availability of
milk and meat.
FMD Vaccine Production
6.03      The incidence of FMD in Pakistan in any one year is considered to
affect at least 15% of all cattle and buffalo and as many as 70% of young
stock. Milking animals lose about 15% of their lactation yield and there
are additional uncounted losses from infertility, abortion and calf mortality.
Draft animals are infected by the disease at peak periods of land cultivation
and are unable to work for two weeks to two months depending on the severity
of the attack. Where replacement work animals are available, marked increases
in hiring rates from Rs 10 to more than Rs 20 per day are noted: where they
are not available crop areas are reduced and later planting reduces crop
yields. In the absence of detailed data assessing the costs of FMD outbreaks.
it may be conservatively assumed that each VLA would experience an average of
one outbreak each year affecting 15% of its bovines. In this event the loss
in milk production per village would be about 8,500 valued at Rs 10,000, and



- 37 -
the reduction in draft power equivalent to about 2,000 bullock pair days cost-
ing Rs 40,000 to replace. Disregarding losses due to fertility, abortion and
calf mortality, the annual loss per village would appear to be at least Rs
50,000. Preventive vaccination costs using project produced FMD vaccine on
breeding stock and draft animals would be about Rs 20 per animal, or Rs 13,000
for the village herd. Consequently, the economic. and financial benefit: cost
ratio for the FMD program appears highly favorable.
Artificial Insemination
6.04      Milk production in Pakistan is presently based largely on buffalo.
The efficiency of conversion of feed to milk in this animal is at present
at the level where 1.5 TDN units of energy are required to produce one liter
of milk. Under improved feeding conditions, with improved quality buffalo
cows, this conversion efficiency could be improved by about 50%. The poten-
tial for improving the efficiency of cattle milk production is substanially
greater. Using crossbred dairy cattle, efficiencies of conversion of food to
milk as high as 3 1. per TDN feed unit can be attained under the local condi-
tions. The only practical means of achieving reasonable progress in improving
the genetic quality of both buffalo and cattle for milk production is by means
of an extensive AI service that reaches into each village. The economic cost
of AI per heifer calf born (2 inseminations per conception, 50% female calves)
would be about Rs 50; the increase in the milk yield potential of the improved
dairy animal is several hundred litres of milk worth Rs 1 or more per litre; a
benefit cost ratio which is most favorable. In considering crossbreeding for
increased dairy production it should be recalled that the primary function of
cattle in Pakistan is to provide draft power. The acceptance by farmers of
crossbreeding their cows to exotic bulls will depend on their perception of
the draft capacity of the crossbred bullocks thereby produced. Local evidence
indicates that with Jersey bulls used in Al, crossbred bullocks are adequate
draft animals.
Livestock Research and Education
6.05      An examination of international data on the level of research ex-
penditure per unit of GNP indicate that Pakistan has a low ranking in over-
all research effort. 1/ Within the overall national research effort of
Pakistan, livestock research plays a notably small role. Although precise
data on benefit cost relationships in research are sparse and subject to many
local factors, ex-post benefit:cost analyses of the increased output per unit
of research investment indicate that commodity oriented research programs
show appreciable benefits to society. 2/ Given the overriding importance
1/   Prof. Evenson - Consultative Group on International Ag. Research,
Oct. 16, 1973.
2/   IBRD Report No. 632a-MA, Appraisal of the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project, Malaysia.



- 38 -
of Pakistan's small farmers in the national economy, and the considerable
improvement in production and income that well conceived livestock and farm
management research could produce for these farmers, an additional research
investment directed to these purposes is most desirable. To implement an
expanded research program in livestock production, a strengthening of the
teaching programs for livestock scientists in Pakistan is essential. Just-
ification for improvements in livestock education largely reside in the high
social benefits and improved research and extension program would provide.
Construction of Expanded Milk and Meat Processing Facilities
6.06      The export of beef produced from surplus male buffalo calves is an
activity that the Government of Pakistan is anxious to develop as quickly as
possible. Although present prices for beef entering international trade are
relatively low, beef exports from Pakistan to neighboring countries remain an
attractive possibility. In order to participate in the international trade
in meat, the construction in Pakistan of an abattoir and meat processing unit
conforming to international trade standards is essential. Additional, and more
immediate justification for constructing such a plant, resides in the economic
benefits to be obtained by utilizing presently largely wasted by-products,
and by the health benefits associated with improved control over meat hygiene.
At current economic prices the economic rate of return of the slaughter plant
would be about 14%. Once international beef prices recover from their present
depreciated levels, this rate of return is expected to be substantially higher.
6.07      The expansion of the Lahore Milk Plant is required to process and
provide orderly marketing facilities for the incremental milk produced by
project farmers. Almost all milk sold in Lahore at present is adulterated
and frequently contaminated with disease causing organisms. The milk and milk
products of the expanded milk plant would be pasteurized and/or sterilized
and thereby reduce the exposure to the risk of milk-borne diseases (T.B.,
Brucellosis and gastrointestinal infections). Current milk prices in Pakistan
approximate border prices for milk reconstituted from skim milk powder and
butter oil, and the economic rate of return of the milk plant is close to the
financial rate of 20%.
6.08      An increase in rural milk supplies would also enable a start to
be made in reducing the large numbers of milking buffalo kept within Lahore
city, animals which greatly exacerbate the problems of congestion, pollution
and sanitation in urban areas.
Employment
6.09      The project would create some 6,000 man years of incremental labor
per year at the farm level. Additional employment opportunities in the milk
and meat plants would be marginal as the existing milk plant is over-staffed
and the slaughterhouse would absorb labor already employed in slaughter
operations.



- 39 -
Environmental Impact
o.10      The project would have no adverse effect upon the environment.  The
slaughter-house and the milk plant in Lahore would be equipped with effluent
treatm.'nt plants which would ensure that effluent discharged would be properly
clep-1 to prevent water contamination. To the extent that the project caused
buffa& numbers in urban areas to be reduced, environmental effects would be
positive.
Project Risk and Sensitivity of the Economic Rate of Return
6.11      An economic rate of return ROR (E) has been calculated for the over-
all project costs and output and a sensitivity analysis carried out to test
the effect of lower benefits and a slower build up of the benefit stream. The
expected ROR (E) is 30%. If costs increase by 20% the ROR (E) would decrease
to 24%, if benefits decrease by 20% the ROR (E) would be 23%. If the benefits
of the full project were delayed by one year more than anticipated following
project investment the ROR (E) would be 22%. Table 20 summarizes this analysis.
6.12      The risks involved in a project of this type are"not great.  The
benefits to participants are high and experience elsewhere in South Asia has
demonstrated that projects of this nature work well. Particularly important
is the factor that tenancy agreements in Pakistan normally stipulate that
fodder and livestock produced on a tenant farm are retained by the tenant.
Consequently, tenant farmers have a strong incentive to increase livestock
production. What risks there are relate mostly to possible administrative
delays in establishing and operating the various project organizations which
could retard the growth of project benefits.



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      At negotiations agreement was reached:
I.   With GOPa and PLB:
(a)  That GOPa would finance on a grant basis the training
costs of the VLA staff (para 3.02).
(b)  That the Department of Livestock Development would
provide an intensified extension service to VLA's
(para 3.07).
(c)  That PLB would, not later than 1982, and each year
thereafter, offer for sale its shares in the Milk
Corporation to the VLA's at par value until the
VLA's had obtained at least 50% ownership (para 3.13).
7.02      Conditions of Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that:
(a)  Subsidiary loan agreements between GOP and GOPa
and GOPa and PLB had been executed (para 2.34).
7.03      Conditions of Disbursement of the Livestock Education and Research
components of the proposed loan would be:
(a)  That the Bank had approved the 5-year research program
(para 3.10).
(b)  That a review of the livestock education component had
been completed by a consultant or consultants acceptable
to the Bank and that GOPa and the Bank had agreed on the
overall program of livestock education to be developed
under the project (para 3.16).
7.04      Given the above assurances and conditions, the project is recom-
mended for a Bank loan of US$10 M.
January 19, 1977



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table 1: Total Project Costs
Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total
------Rs. million-------    -----U.S. $ million-----
VLA Program
Equipment  1/                 1.08      1.32       2.40      .11         .13      .24
Start up Capital 2/           1.50       -         1.50      .15        -         .15
Incremental Staff Costs 3/   .12         -           .12     .01        -         .01
FMD Vaccine
Equipment 4/                  3.42    10.26       13.68      .35       1.03      1.38
Civil Works                     .52     1.56       2.08      .05         .16      .21
Consultant Service and
Staff Training               .70      2.80       3.50      .07        .28       .35
Incremental Staff Costs 5/  1.50         -         1.50      .15        -         .15
AI Services
Equipment  6/                   .04     1.75         .29     -           .03      .03
Civil Works                     .09      .02         .11      .01       -         .01
Consultant Services and
Staff Training               .03      1.87        .40      -          .04       .04
Incremental Staff Costs         .06      -           .06     .01        -         .01
Livestock Research
Equipment and Technical
Literature                    .82     1.58       2.40      .08        .16       .24
Civil Works                     .78       .22      1.00      .08         .02      .10
Consultant Services and
Staff Training               .12      1.08       1.20      .01        .11       .12
Livestock Training
Equipment and Technical
Literature                    .52     2.08       2.60      .05        .21       .26
Civil Works                     .96       .24      1.20       .10        .02      .12
Consultant Services and
Staff Training               .60      3.90       7.50      .06        .40       .76
Sub-total (1)                12.86    28.68       41.54    1.30        2.90      4.20
1/ Centrifuge, lactometer and butyrometers, first aid kit. AI crush, strong box,
ledgers and office supplies, etc. at Rs. 4,000 per VLA. Motorcycles and
simple demonstration equipment for extension staff.
* 2/ Salaries for VLA Staff for first four mDnths, paid into the VLA account by
aoWernment in advance at Ra. 2.000 Der VLAuDlus caDital for milk n,urchaRe
equivalent to one week's business at Rs. 1,000 per VLA.
3/ Salaries of incremental extension staff.
4/ Laboratory and cell culture supplies.
5/ New staff for initial vaccine production.
6/ Nitrogen storage, laboratory and office supplies, semen imports.
* Note: No. of associations formed in first four years - 50:100:150:200 = 500.
Continued....



Total Project Costs  (Table 1 continued)
Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign    Total
-------Rs. million -------    -----U.S. $ million------
Lahore Slaughterhouse -
Utilities                      3.95      5.03        8.98     .40       .51         .91
Machinery and Equipment        4.53     12.27       16.80     .46      1.24       1.7n
Civil Works                    8.46      2.5?,    10.9$       .85       .25       1.10
Transport Equipment             .15      1.39       1.54      .02       .14        .16
Consultant Services            1.09      3.27       4.36      .11       .33        .44
Working Capital                 .51       -           .51     .05       -           .05
Lahore Milk Plant 8/
Utilities                      1.15      1.65        2.80     .12       .16         .28
Machinery and Equipment        4.60      10.25      14.85     .46      1.OnL       1.55n
Civil Works                    2.83        .46       3.29     .29       .05        .34
Transport Equipment             .90      2.27        3.17     .09       .22         .31
Consultant Services             .96      1.94        2.90     .10       .20         .30
Working Capital                1.72       -          1.72     .17       -          .17
PLB Farms 9/
Equipment and Vehicles         1.41      4.45        5.86     .14       .45         .59
Civil Works                    3.27      1.03       4.30      .33       .10        .43
PLB Training Center
Equipment and Vehicles  10/     .21       .11         .32     .02       .01        .03
Civil Works  11/               1.08        .12       1.20     .11       .01        .12
Fellowships                     -          .60        .60     -         .06         .06
Incremental Staff Costs 12/    3.80       -         3.80      .38       -          .38
ERTS Survey 13/
Mosaics and Interpretation      .10        .90       1.00     .01       .09         .10
Sub Total (2)                 40.72     48.26       88.98    4.12      4.87       8.99
Physical Contingencies (3)     2.97      4.06        7.03     .30       .41         .71
Price Contingencies (4)       13.96     18.02       31.98    1.41      1.82       3.23
Sub Total (1+2+3+4)           70.51     99.02     169.53    7.13      10.00      17.13
Taxes                         25.47       -         25.47    2.57       -         2.57
Total                         95.98     99.02      195.00    9.70     10.00      19.70
7/8/ Details are provided in working papers of Annex.
9/  Details specified in PLB farm development plans.
10/  Training material and one small bus.
111  Dormitorv. kitchen and teaching facility.
12/  One coordinator and short-term contract staff.
13/  Purchase, computer interpretation and ground truthing of imagery.



Table 2
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
US$ '000
Bank Fiscal Year
and
Quarter Ending                        In Quarter                Cumulative
1978
September                                 200                       200
December                                  300                       500
March                                     300                       800
June                                      500                     1,300
1979
September                                 600                     1,900
December                                  600                     2,500
March                                     700                     3,200
June                                      700                     3,900
1980
September                              1,000                      4,900
December                                1,000                     5,900
March                                   1,000                     6,900
June                                    1,000                     7,900
1981
September                                 800                     8,700
December                                  600                     9,300
March                                     400                     9,700
June                                      300                    10,000



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CROP BUDGETS - PHYSICAL DATA
WMCT       8A8R       IRRR       MAZT        OILS       GRAM       COTT        UGR        BERS       KFOD        MILK       MEAT
PRESENT
CROP PAT X             s0n0        2n.0        7,0        3,0         1.0        2.0        3.0         4,0       7.0       14.0       tool(      1.00
YIELD CT/HAi            1.3         1.9        2,6        1.3         0,5       o0S         0,9       2e.0        23.7       14.1         0,4        0.I1
SEED REG (KG/HA)       88,o        26.o       22.0       29.0       29.0        26.0       22.0    3000.0         17,0       30,0         n.0         0
PERT REG (KG/HA)
NITROGEN             54.5       34,5 9      545        54,5       27,6       13.6        27r6       54,5         0,0       3050        0,0         0.0
PHOSPHORUS           27.06      54,         54,5       54,5       54,5       27.6        13.8       27.6       54,5        27,b        0.0         0.0
PESTICIDE (KG/HAI
PE,STICIDE            n,o0        2.0       12,0        7,2        0,0         0.0       12:0        9,6         0,0        0.0        0, 00
OTHER
FEED                  a,0        0no         0.0        0,0        0.0o        00         0.0        0,0         0,0        0,0        0.1         1,o
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
CROP PAT X             Ss,o        14.o        5,0       10.0         1,0        2.0       '3,0         4.0        7.0       14.0       100.0      100.0
YIELD (T/HAS             1.S        2.1        2,6        1.5         0,6        0.6        1,0       30,0        27,3       16,0         0,6        0,I
SEED REQ (KG/HA)       88a0        26,0       22,0       29,0        29,0       26,0       22.0    3000,0         17,0       30,0         0.0        0.o
PERT REG (KG/HA)
NITROGEN             65,0       65,0        65,0       65.0       31,8        15.9       51. 6e5,0               0,0       50.0        n.0         0.0
PHOSPHORUS           31.8       54,IS       S4*        54,s       62,7       31.8        15.9       31.8       65,0        31,8        0,0         0,0
PESTICIDE (KG/HA)
PESTICIDE             0,0       13.B        13,8        8,3        2,4         2.4       13.8        l1,o        0,0        0,0        0.0         0,0
OTHER
FEED                  0,0         0.0        0.0        0.0 0.0                0.0        oo         0,0         0.0        0,0        0.1         0,0
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
CROP PAT X             61.0        20.0        0.0       12,0         1,0        3.0        4;0         5,0        6o0       17.0      ton0.       1o0,o
yIELD (T/NAi             1.8        2,3        3o1        1,8         0,8        0,8        1,1       35,0        30,8       17.1         t,0        fl.2
SEED REQ (KG/HA)      8see         26.o       22,0       29.0        29.0       26.0       22.0    3000.0         l7,0       30,0         0,0        0,0
FERT REQ (KG/HA)
NITROGEN             82.2      109,1       109,1      109,1       54.5       27.         54*S      109.1        27,6       40,0        o,n0        ,0
PHOSPHORUS           54*,       S4,5        S4,5       S4,5       82.2        54.5       27.6       54,5        82,2       54,5        0.0         0,0
PESTICIDE (KG/HA)
PESTICIDE             0.0       24,0        24,0       14.4        9.6         9,6       24:0       19.2         0,0        0.0        0.0         0,0
OTHER
FEED                  n,0         0. 0       0,0        0,0        0,o         0.0        o           0 .0       0.0        0,0        0,2         (,1



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CROP BUDGETS - VLA FARMS - FINANCIAL PRICES
(per Hectare)
GROSS       ... .....INPUT COSTS-w----o---.                 COST          NET        LABORV/   ANIMALI  WATER
CROP        YIELD       PRICE       VALUE        SEED    FERTILIZER PESTICIDE    OTHERI/   TOTAL              VALUE          REG          REC      REQ
CT/MA)      CRS         (RS )       CR8 )        (RS               ) (RS             ) (RS  (R     RS         (DAYS)       (DAYS)      (HA.INS.)
PRESENT
WHET              1,3      1W7'l,o     1391.0      184.8        558,3          0.0         0,0      743,1        647,9        62,4         46,0          20
8ASp              1,9      132,o      2S08.0      156,0        741,2        147.8         0,o0     1045,0      1463,0         72.0        21,4          65
IRRR              2.6       8800,    2288,0         66,0        741.2        147,8         0.o      955,0       1333,0        72,0         21',          60
MAZT              1,3      1050,0      1365,0       37,7        741.2         68,7         0.o       667,6       497,4         64,6        14,6          25
OILS              O,S      2620,o      1310,0      101,5        558,3           0,0        0.0       659,8       650,2         33.6        14,4          20
GRAm              a'5      1380,0       690,0       39,0        281,5           0.0        0,o      320,5        369,5         26,4        12,0          15
COTT              0,9      276'.o      2484.0      121,0        281,5        147,8         0,o       s50,4      1933,6         SO,4        104.          40
SUGR             26,0       150t.o     3900,0    1200,0         568,3        118,3         0.o     1876,6       2023.4       180,0         72,0          70
BERS             23,7         ,o          0,0     112,2        370,6           0,0        0,0       482,8      .482,8         43,2        12            35
KFOD             l4.1         0,o          0,0       48,0       391,7           00         0, o      439,7      o439,7         52,6        14,4          15
MILK              0,4      1200.0       S126,B        0,0         0,0           0,0      80o .         0,0       446,8         39,0         0,0           0
MEAT              0.1      2000.0       tS8,0         0,0         0,0           o,o        0.0         0,0       158,0         20,0         o.o           0
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
WHET              1.S      1300(0      1950,0      184,8        373,5           0.0        0,0       558,3      1391,7         42,4        46,0          20
BASR              2,1      132(,o      2772,0      130,0        487,0        17000         0,0       787,0      1985,0         72,0        21,4          65
IRRR              2,8      100(,0      2800.0       66,0        487,0        170.0         Qg       723,0      2077,0         72,0        a1.4         60
MAZT              1,5      1300.0      1950,0        37.7       487,0        102,3         0.0       627,0      1323,0         64,6        14,0         25
UILS              n.6      2900.0      1740,0       101.s       418,4         29,6         o,o       549,5      1190,5         33,6        14,4          20
GRAM              (.6    1t35.0         828,0        39,0       211.5         29,6         0,o       280,0       548,0         26,4        12,0         15
COTT              1.0    3500,o        3500,0       132,0       184,4         170,0        0,0       486,5      3013,5         50,4        14,0         40
SUGR             5n.o a     1a0.0      5400,0    1200,0         373,5        115s          0,0     1709,0      3691,0        160,0        72.0         70
BERS             27,3          0,0         0,0      112.2       325,0           0,0        0,0       437,2      *437,2         43,2        12,0         35
KFOD             16.0          0.0         0,0       48,0       324.0           0.0        0.0       372,0      o372,o         52,6        14,4         15
MILK              n.6      1t40,0       684,0         0,0         0.0           0*0       96.0        96,0       588,0         39,0          0.0         0
MEAT              o,1      2280.o       246,2        o0o          00,           o,o       0o0          0,0       246,2         20,0          0,0         0
FUTURE WITH PRoJECT
WHET              1,8      1300,0      2340,0       184,8       543,8           0,o        0,o       728,6      1611,4         62,4        48,0         20
BASR              2.3      1320,0      3u36.0       130,0       632,S        29S,7         0,o      1058,2      1977.8         72,0        21.4         65
IRRR              3,1      1 00l,o     3100,0        66,0       632.5        295,7         0,o       994,2      2105.8         72,0        21.6         60
MAZT              1.8      13(00,0     2340,0        37,7       632.5         177,4        0,o       847,6      1492,4         64,8         14.B        25
OILS              ).8      2900,0      2320,0       101.5       590.9         118.3        0.0       810,6      1509,4         33,6         14,4        20
GRAM              n,8      1380,0      1104,0        39,0       363,6         118,3        0,0       520,9       583,1         26,4         12,0        15
COTT             11       3500.0      3850,0       132,0       317,9        295,7         0.o       745,5      3104,5         50,4         14,8        40
SUGR             35.0       18t,0      6300,0    1200,0         632,5         236,5        0,0      2069,1      4230,9       1'0,0          72,0        70
BERS             30),8         0,o0        0,0      112,2       502.1           0,   o 0,0           614,3      -614,3         43,2         12,0        35
KFUo             17,6          0. .)       0,0       48,0       404,5           0o0        0.0       452.5      -452,5         52,8         14,4        15
MILK              1.0      1140.o      1094.4         0.0         0,0           0.0      14,40       144,0       950,4         39,0          0,0         
MEAT              0.2      2285,o       344,3         0,0         0.0          00        80.0        80,0       264,3         20,0          0,0         0
1/   Water charges and Land Revenue are charged on a per farm basis.
2/   Deficits in supply are met by hiring at a charge of Rs 10/day.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECt
c1 UPG=  -i im  (per ha.)
GRUBS      -------       INPUT C08     TS-     -          COST        NET        LABOR    ANIMALi/  WATr
CROP       YIELD       PRICE      VALUE      SEED   FERTILIZER PESTICIDE   OTHER           TOTAL      VALUE         REG         RG        REQ
CT/HA)     (RS        (RS         (RS        (RS )        (RS )    (RS          (RS        (RS )       (DAYS)     (DAYS)    (HA.INS)
PRESENT
OHET             1,3    2200,0    2860.0    220,0          279,1          0,0       0.o      499,1    23bV.9         62,4        48,0        20
BASR             1.9    1Salt)      3420.0       54,6      370.6        134.4       0 .o     569,6    2880.4          72,0       21,4        65
IRRR             2?6     Io(O.     260o0O        35,2      370.6        134.4       0 0      540,2    2059,8         72,0        21.4        60
MAZT             1.3    190"ol0    1950,0        49,3      370.6         80.6       0.o      500,5      1449.5       64,8        16,6        25
OILS             0,5    35r,0.0    17a50,'       87.0      279,1          0.0       0 ..     366,1      1383,9        33*6       14.4        20
GRAM             0 .     20 ),0    1250,0        65,0      140.8          0,0       0,o      205,8      1044,2       26,4        12,0        15
COTT             0,9    4500,0    4050,0    132.0          140,8        134,4       0,0      407,2      3642,8       50,4        16,        40
UGR             26,0      25(.(I   6500S,       450,0      279,1        107,S       0.0      836,7    5663,3         180,0       72,0        70
8ERS            23,7        t,o         0,0     112,2      185,3          0.0       0.0      297,5    -297,5          43,2       12,0        35
KFOD            14st        O,o0       0o,0      48,0      195,8          0.0       0.o      243,8      -243,8       52,8        14,4        15
MILK             0.4    216W,o       948,2        0,0        0,0          0.0      80.0        80.0      868,2        39,0        0,0         0
MEAT             Olt    3s0's,0      276,5        0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0         0,0      276,5        20,0        0,0         0
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
WHET             i,5    220(,0    3300,0        220,0      312,7          0.0       0,0      532,7    2767,3         62,4        45.0        20
BASR             2.1    18)0,0    3780.0        54,6      396.7        154,6       0,0      605,8    3174,2          72,0       21,6        65
IRRR             2,8     100) ,0    2800.0       35,2      396,7        154,6       0.o      S86,4      2213,6       72,0        21.6        60
MAZT             1.5    1500,O    2290,0         49.3      396,7         93.0       0,0      536,9      1711,1        64,8       14.5        25
OILS             n.6    3900.0    2100,0         87,0      327,4         26.9       0,0      441,3    1658,7          33,6       14j4        20
GRAM             n,6    250soo       1500,0      65,0      165,4         26,9       0.0      257.2    1242,8          26,4       12,0        15
COTT             1.0    4501,o    4500,0        132,0      154,2        154,6       0.0      440,8    4059.2          50,4       14S,        40
UGR             3n,0      25fn,o    7900,0    450,0        312,7        123,2       0,0      885,9    6614,1         180,0       72.0        70
BERS            27,3        O,0         0,0     112.2      240.5          0.0       0,       352,7      "352,7        43,2       12,0        35
KFOD            16.0        0,0        0,0      4B,0      267,7          0a0       0,0      315,7    -315,6          52,8       14,4        15
MILK             0,6    2161,0      1296,0        0,0        0,0          0o.      96,o        96,0     1200,0        39,0        0.0         0
MEAT             0.1    SO00. 0      540,0        0.0        0.0          00        0. o        0,0      540,0        20.0        0,0         0
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
WHET             1.8    2200.0      3960,0      220,0      448,3          0.0       0,0      668,3    3291,6          62,4       4800        20
BASR             2.3     1800o0    4140,0        S4,b      529,0        268,8       0.0      852,4    3287,7          72,0       21,6        65
IRRQ             3.1     1 0 00,0    3100,0      35,2      529,0        268,8       0,u      833,0    2267,1          72,0       21,6        60
MAZT             1,8     I s5(,0    2700,0       49,3      529,0        161.3       0,o       739,5    1960,5         64,8       16,C        25
OILS             oe8    35)0O,0    2800,0        87,0      467,6        107,5       0.0      662,2    2137,8          33,6       14,        20
GRAM             0.8a    2500,o    2000.0        65.0      284,5        107,S       0,o       4S7,0     1543,0        26,4       12.0        15
COTT             1.1    4500,)    4950.0        132,0      265,6        268B8       0.0       666,4    4283.6         50,4       164.        40
UGR             35,0      250,0     8750,0      450,0      529,0        215,0       O,o     1194,0      7556,0       180,0       72,0        70
SERS            30,8        to,Q        0,0     112,2      386,9          0.o       0,o       499,1     .499,1        43,2       12,0        35
KFOO            17.6        0,0         0,0      48.0      321.7          0.0       0.0       369,7    .369,6         52,8       144        15
MILK             1,n    2160,u    2073,6          0.0        0,0          0.0    144,0        144,0     1929,6        39,0        0,0         O
MEAT             0,2    5000,0       7S5,U        0,0        0,0          0.0      80,0        80,0      675,0        20,0        0,0         0
l/ Water charges and hard revenue are charged on a per farm b sas.
/ Deficits in supply are met by hiring at a charge of Rs. 10/day.



Table I
Pumai LIWDIOcK PJZ0T
VIA CArm no MJECTZ0
80    1       ~~      ~~2  3    4       5        6       7        S        9      10       11      12
TECH-NICAL COEFFICIENTS I
CALVING RATE                   0.00    0.60    0.65    0.70    0.75    0.10    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    oleo
N CALE MORT. RATE              0.00    0.08   0.07    0,07   0.06   0.06    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05
I CALF MORT. RATE              0.00   0.12    0.11    0,10    0.09   0,08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08
A I 80MOR. RATE              0.00    0.00    0,05    0,05    0,04    0,04    0.04    0.04    0,04    0,04    0,04    0,04    0.04
PULL CTUJLING RATE             0.00    0,10    0.11    0,12    0.13    0.14   0.15    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.210
C1W CULL ING RATL              0,00    0,12    0.12    0,12    0.12    0.12    04k2    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12
HLII-ER cuLLiMO RATS           0.00    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0..10    0.3.0    QdjQ    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
FuILL S
ON HAND YkAR END                   2        3   ~            3       3        3        3       3        3        4       4        4        4
SE61NNING OF YEAR0                        68       67       66      67       71       71      79       84       19      94       99      99
fI RANIF-ER                        0      11       if       13      16       17      18       19       21      22       23       10      la
DE~ATHS                           0        3       3        3       3        3        3       3        4       4        4        4       4
-CULLED                            0                9       9        9       10      11       it      12       13       14      14       14
-SALE                             0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
F`URLHAOiE                        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0
LIN VIANI) YEAR END               611l    67       66       67      71       75       79      84       89       94      99       99      99
iIEIFLIS,2 3 YEARS:
1'EO1NNING OF YEAR                 0       1.2     14       17      .18      19      21       23       24       26      27       29      31,
fiEA I HS                         0       0        0        0-      0        0       0        0        0        1       1        1        1
.-CULL El,                         0        1        I       1        1        1                2       2        2        2       2        3
-SALE                              1            0       0        0            0       0        0        0       0        6        0       I3
l'URCIIASES                       1)      0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0
DN HAND YEAR END                  1        11      13       16      17       18       19      21       22       23      18       10       19
HIIIIERS,I--2 YEARS:
DESINNINO  OF YER0                         15      18       19,     21       23       26      2?       29       31      33       35       3,'
LSATrHS                           0       0        0        0       0        0        1       1        1        1       1        1 
LUlJLED                          0        1       1        1       2        2        2       2        2        3       3        3        .
!-Al.I                            0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       U)
41 IWL.IA1JES                     0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0
(II HAND' YEAR END                02      14       17       18      19       21      23       24       26      2?       29       31      32
*L.U YEARS.1
i-LVI S IIURN'                     0       40      43       46      50       56      59       63       67       71      75       79      19
I EMALElI BORN                     0      20       21      23       25      28       29       31      33       35       37      39       39
L,~I A  i                        0        2       2        2       2        2        2       2        2        2       2        3        3
C,AIE                                 0        0       0        0            0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
lf%U'HASES                        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
UN lAND YEAR END                  11       18      19       21      23       26       27      29       31       33      35       36       36
MALJ.:S BORN                       0       20      21       23      25       28       29      31       33       35      37       39       39
-DEA rHS                           0        1        1       1        1       1        1        1       1        1        1       1        1
-SALE                              0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
+PURCHASES                         0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
ONHANtiIYEAR END                  Ty       19      20       22      24       27       28      30       32       34      36       38       38
MAI1 Eb, 1-2 YEARS:
FE01NNING OF YEAR                 (1       19      19       20      22       214      22      20       30       32      34       36       38
Oll-ATIIG1                                     0            0       0        0        1       1        1        1       1        1        2
1HANSFEIN TO  ULL                 0       0        1)       0       0        0        9       0        0       0        0        0        0
-SALE                              0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       o        0        0       0        0
+OPURCHASES                        II       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
ON HAND YEAR END                  12       19      1 9      'I0     22       24       26      27       29       31      33       35       37,
MALES,2-3 YEARS:
SEGINNING OF YEAR                  0       17      19       19       20      22       24      26       27       29     -31       33       35
-DEATHS                            0        0       0        0        0       0        0        1       1        1        1       1        1
-TRANSFER TO BULL                  0        1       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        1        0       0        0
-SALE                              0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
+PURCHASES                         0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
ON HAND YEAR END                  15       16      19       19      20       22       24      25       26       27      30       32       34
HALES,3-4 YEARS:
BEGINNING OF YEAR                  0       15      16       19       19      20       22      24       25       26      27       30       32
-DEATHS                            0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        1        1       1        1
-SALE                              0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
ON HAND YEAR END                  14       25      16       19       19      20       22      24       25       25      26      -29       31
MALES, 4 -.5 YEARS               14       13      14       15      18       18       19      21       23       24      24       24       27
MALES. 5      A  YEARS        -13         13      12       13      14       17       12      18       20       22      23       23       23
MALES,  6 -7 YEARS               12       12      12       11      12       13       16      16       17       19      21       22       22
MALES, 7 -8 YEARS                11       11      11       11      10       11       12      15       15       16      18       20       21
MALES, 8     9 YEARW             10       10      10*      10      10        9       10      11       14       14      15       17       19
MALES, 9. - 10 YEARS          -  1         9       9        9        9       9        8        9      10       13      13       14       16
TOTAL ANIMAL NUMBDERSg
TOTAL (HEAD)                     243     250      260      274     291      313      333     357      382      406     424      442'   458
TOTAL (AU)                       207     211      217      22h     240      256      273     293      313      334     350      365      380
SALES:1
MALES > 1OYEAUI                    0        9        Y       -,       9        I       *                 0      13       La       14      16
cows                               0   ~ 9           9       9        9      10       11       It       12      13       14       14      14
HEIFERS,2-3 YEARS                  0        1        1       1        1        1       2        2        2       2        2        2
HEIFERS,1-2 YEARS                  0        1        1       1        2        2       2        2        2       3        3 



Table 7
PAKISTAN
PUNJ&B LIVMCltK PRDJECT
VIA WWAIO HERD PWJECTION
-' '-'-"'-''-'------------- ------ YEAR  --_-__._.___             -____________..____-._
BD        1       2        3       4       5       6        7       a       9      10       11      12
iIE Hi:'llNll:   :I:i l:l:lC.IEN'ES:
t L V lN I. RAIT              0.()0    0,50    0.50    0.52    0.56    0.60    0.60    0.40    0.60    0.60    0.60    0.60       .o60
i Mt0RI. RArE:        0.00    0.30    0.30    0.27    0.24    0.20    0.16    0.12    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10   0.(:1(
Mt)irT. RAIE          0,00    0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10   010    0.10   0.10   0,10
.11111 I M')IT . RATE        0.00    0.05    0,05    0.05    0.05    0,05    0.0S   0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05
NI [:'III   Ni,RAE            0.00    0.10   0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    O.10    0.10    0, 1 0
CGt,\ <I'UL_IOu RIAln         0.00    (.10   0.10    0.10   0.10    0.10   0.10   0.10   0.12    0. 12    0.12      0,12   (0I2.2
111:. N 1:1' Ir 'lli 1. INti RATI E  0,00    0.05   0.06   0.07   0.10    0.10   0.10   0.10   0.1.0    0.10   0.10   0.(10    0.
I AIt :I:ND            9       9       9        9       9       9       9        9       9       9       9        9       9
Bll:NN:[NG OF YEAR                0    260      257     254     250    256       256     257     259     260      261     261     261
t IlRhNUl-lR                     0      42       40      39      49      45      46       47      53      53       52      52      52
HOtRASi                         0      15      14       14      4       15      15       15      15      15      15       15       15
- 111i l. 1- D                  0      30       29      29      29      30       30      30      37      37       37      37      37
SALt0                                  0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0
-t LN                                                     0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0
ON lAND YEAR END               260     257      254     250     256     256      257     259     260     261      261     261     261
IL     Nl . 2C yE.ARS.61                                                                                           61       61      6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 IE: 1:1:                                60<!     60 iY. IE 
phI,I(i:lHNH:lNl OF YEAR         0      44       43      54      52      5        54      60      60      61       61      61      61
['E:ATil!:i                     0       2        2       2       2       2        2    * 2        2       3        3       3       3
* CULLEDI                       0       2        2       3       5       5        5       5       5       6        6       6       6
-ALE                            0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
FFL~ 001l 10                              0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0
ON lIAND Yl -AR END             42      40       39      49      45      46       47      53      53      52       52      52      52
HE:IF:l::RSi,L--2 YEARS:
LG:l.NNINLi 01: YEAR             0      47       59      58      60      63       69      69      70      70       70      71      71
-DEA, 0NNIN                              2       2        2       2       3       3        3       3       3       3        3       .
*-t::til. l E:D0                      2        3       4       5       6       6        6       6       6        6       7       7
,At I           0       0       0       0       ~~      ~~      ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0  0
f-I TIRIHASIS           ~~      ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~0  0  0  0   0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
' I:'tRCHASE:S                                                                   60       60       1      61 O1            6 O  O6 O1
t;N lIAND Yl:AR END             44       43      54      52      53      54       60      60      61      61       61     .   61   6
AL. V'lI :UiO-:t YEARS:
t.AL VE:U; BORN            0....YAS  O   130    128     132     139     153      153     154     155     155      156     156     156
FEMAL-EES IORN                    0      65      64      66      69       76      76      77      77       77      78      78       78
*-DEATHS                         0       6        6       6       6       7        7       7       7       7        7       7       7
-SALE                            00                               0       0        0                                0       0       0
*F'lRCHASES                      0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0                0
ON HAND YEAR END                47      59       58      60      63      69       69      70      70       70      71      71      71
MAL_ESi BflORN                   0      65       64      66      69      76       76      77      77      77       78      78      713
-EEATS                            0      19      19      17      16       15      12       9       7        7       7       7        7
- ALE                            0       46      45      49      53      61       64      68      70       70      71      71      7:1
.fP1RLmHASL:                     0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0
ON MAND YEAR E:ND                0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0        0
'TOIAL ANIMAoL NUJgERE4.ITS5:
TOTJ'l,AL  (HEI-AD)            402     408     414     420      426     434     442     451      453     453     454      454     4b4
I     0TAI .A,1)              364     366     371      375     380     385    392       399    401      401     402      402     402
L A -  I:,~4                                                9        3      6        4      6       70       70      71      71       71
if,l~ 0? i:.,"iL '. i: !5               30      299     2       29      30       30      30      37       37      37      37      37
tl:LF:L RESi,2- 3 YEARS           0       2       2                                6          6        6       6       6
EIIElFERES1-2 YEARS               0       2       3



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
-NILLAGE LIVESTOCK ASSOCIATmN IRODICTED.rYCOME  F        TM NTFFAT-n
1          2          3          4           5          6          7           8          9          10           11          12
Rupees
Cows                                       260        257        254         250        256        256         257        259        260         261         261          261
Calvir Rate %                               50         50         52          56         60         60         60          60         60          60          60           60
Total Nilk Sold                         104000     109225     118872      133000     153600     161280     169620      170940     171600      172260      172260      172260
Price/litre (Rs)                           1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2
Milk Income (Rs)                       1248C0     131070     142646      159600     184320     193536      203544     205128     205920      206712      206712       206712
Buffalo Sales No.                           80         79         85          92        102        105         109        118        119         120         121          121
Av. Li4veeigbt Sold                        220        225         230        235        210        245         250        255         260        260         260          260
Price/Kg (Rs)                              2.0        2.0        2.1         2.1        2.2        2.2         2.3        2.3        2.3         2.3         2.3          2.3
Buffalo Sales Income (Rs)                35200      35550      41055       45402      53856      56595       62675      69207      71162       71760       72358        72358
Total Sales (RE)                        160000     166620     183701      205002     238176     250131     266219      274335     277082      278472      279070       279070
VILLAGE LIVESTOCK ASSOCIATTON PROJECTEn INDnMNE FROM CAT",Tv
1          2          3           4          5          6          7           8          9           10          11           12
Rupees
Cowe                                        68         67         66          67         71          75         79         84          89         94           99          99
Calvimg Rate %                              60         65          70         75         80          80         80         80          80         80           80          80
XSaleu/Ccw                                 200        250         300        350        400         500        600        700         800        900          900         900
Total Nilk Sold                           8160      10890      13860       17590      22700      30000       37920      47040      5696o       67680       71280        71280
Price/litre (Rs)                           1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0          1.0         1.0
Milk Incooe                               8160      10890      13860       17590      22700       30000      37920      47040       56960      67680        71280       71280
Cattle Salealeo.                            20         20          20         21         22          23         24         26          31         32           33          36
Av. Livieigit Sold                         150        155         160        165        170         175        175        175         175        175          175         175
Price/Kg (Ra)                              2.0        2.0         2.1        2.1        2.2         2.2        2.2        2.2         2.2        2.2          2.2         2.2
Cattle Sles Incom                         6000       6200        6720       7277       8228        8855       9240      10010       11935      12320        12705       13860
Total Sales (tRs)                        14160      17090       20580      24867      30928       38855      47160      57050       68895      80000        83985       85140



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION AND ITS ECONOMIC VALUE
CROP                      PRESENT                                FUTURE WITMOUT PROJECT                         FUTURE WITM PROJECT
&RE&  YIELID   P90D  GROSS VAtLADO  NET    AREA  YIEL,D   PROD  GROSB VALADO  N?T   AREA   YIELD    PROD  CROSS VALDOD  NET
(TH.HA) (T/HA) tTHT).... ---(MIL RS  ...-  (TH.HA) (THA) (THN,T) ----CMIL RS )---- CTH.HA) (T/HA1 CTH.T) ----(MIL RS )--".
WHET           63,5    1,3   82.6  183.3  151,6  79,8   B9,9   1,5  104,8  230.5  193,3 116.2   77,5   1,8  139,4  306,8  255,0 169*5
BASR           29.4    1,9   1ie.3   86,9   12,7  48,9   17,8   2,1    37,3   67.2   56,4  39,    25,4   2,3   58,4  10S,2   83.5  S9,7
IRRR            i.9   2,6   23,1   23.1    18.3  10,0         6,4   2,8    17,8   17,8    14.1   8,1         0,0   3,1      0,0     0,0      0,0   0,0
MAZT            3.8   1,3      5.0    7,14    5,3   2,4   12.7   I,S    19,0   28.6   21.7  11.4    15,2    1,8   27,4   41.1    29,9  17.4
OILS            1.3   0,5      n.6    2.2       1,8   1.1      1'3   o,6      0,8    2,7      2.1    i,5     1,3   o,8      1,0      3,6    2.7   2.1
GRAM            2,5   0.5      t13    3.2    2.7    1,7    2,5   0,6          1.S     3,8     3.2   2,2      3,8   0,8      3.0     7,6      5.9   4.4
COTT            3.8   0,9    3.4   15,4   13,9  11,3          3.8   I,O    3.8   17,1    15.5  12,9          5,1    ,1     S,.   2S,1    21.8  18.3
UCR             S.1  26a0  132.l   33.0   26.2  16,0   5l1tl  ,0   152,4   38,1   33,6  20.8                 6,4  35,0  222,3   SS,6   4680  32.0
BERg            0,9  23,7  210a7    Q,n   *2,.6  .7,6    8i   27,3  242,7            0.0   -3.1  .680    10,2  30.8  312,9          0.0   *5,1 -10e7
KFOO           17,.  14,1   250,7       ,o0  *4,3 -16,3    17,8  16,0  284.S    0,0   -5,6 -17.6   21,6  17,6  380,0                 0,0   -8.0 -22.5.
MILK          127.0   0,14   5%.8  12001  tt1,3  60,7  12T,0   0,6   76.2  164,6  152.4 102.9  127.0   1,0  121,9  263,3  245.1 195.5
MEAT          127,0   0.1    10.0  31.1   35.1   9,7  127,0   0,1   13.7   68,6    68.6  43.2  127,0   0.2    19,2   9S,9   85.7  60.3
CROP INT    311.0                                           315,0                                          331,0
TOTAL                        823,5  510.1  430.9 217,8                     954,5  639,0  552,1 333,3                     1291,2  904,2  764.5 526.2
Water Requirements (ha/ins/yr)            4646930                                     4377055                                  4956175
Labour Requirements (000 man/days/yr)       16710                                       16951                                    18264
Draft Animal Requirement (000 b.p. days/yr)   4694                                       4928                                     5562
FUITURE WITHOUT FUTURE WITH
YEAR         PROJECT           PROJECT       INCREMENT
(MIL R8 j        (MIL RJ        (MIL RS )
1              217.8            217.8             6.0
2              226.1            235.8             9.7
3              234.3            257.5            23.2
4              242.6            281.2            38.6
5              250.8            308.7            57.9
6              259.1            346.0            86.9
7              267.3            383.1           115.8
a              275.6            420.6           145.0
9              283.8            447.8           164.0
10              292.1            475.5           183.4
11              300.3            493.3           193.0
t2              308.6            501.6           193.0
13              316.8            509.8           193.0
14              325.1            518.1           193.0
1S              333.3            526.3           193.0



Table 10
PAELSTAl
FUNAD LIVYsDCK PDJJrT
Pi CASS F7IS
(Ru )
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -T YFR- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_
LANDLESS                             3         4                            7                   9       10        1 1       12        1 3       1 4      I 5
FARNMS
FO AlgRS        1306.    1378.    1532.       1724.   2018.    2167.    2350.    2485.    2594.    2688.          2723.    2731.   2731.    2731.   2731.
OF LIVESMOCK
PRTIODUCTION
COST OF FEM      326.      344.      383.      431      504.      541.      587.      621.      643.     672.      680.      682.    682.      682.    682.
FARM INCOME      980.    1034.    1149.    1393.   L5114.    1626.    1763.    186.4.    1946.    2016.           2043.    2049.   2049.    2049.    2049.
(+) OTHER INCOlI
(SALE OF                     -
IABOUR)       1000.    1000.    1000.    1000.   1OO.-   lOo0.'   1000.    lowo.    1000.    10O0.    1000.    1000.   1000.    1000.   1000.
(-) SUBTOTAL
IECOME          19B0.    2034.    2149.    2392.   2514.   .2626.    2763.    1861,.           2946.    3016.     3043.    3049.   30o9.      30N9.    3049.
SUBSISTEICE    1650       1650     1650.    1650.   1650.        1650.    1650.,S_ _       _-_665Q50 _   _   18--      __ ___      1650----1-5      -1650.--
NET CASHFWI    330         384       499.      743.    864.       976.    2n.3.    1214.       1296.    1336.      1393.   1399.   1399.    1399.    1399.
CUMYLATIVE
3. 5 ACRE FAM
GROSS VAL.   1351.   380t.   4092,    481s,   '1401,   5837.   6128,   6459,   6419,    6419.    6419,    6419.   6419,    6419.    6419,
NF PRnlDI'CTIflh
CNST GF        1430.   1477.    1523.   J640,   1734,    1804.   l81.    1897,    1897.    189?.                 89?7,    1897.   1897,    1897.    1897,
INP UTI
HIRF0 LAP          0.        O,       0.        U.        0,        0.       0.        0,        0.        0,       0.        0.        0.        0,       0,
CIJSTM SFRV      146.     209,      273.      431.     558,      653,    716,        779,     779,      779,    779,        779.     779,    779,        779,
FARJ IkE.            ..34.   Z115.   2296.    2748.   3110,    3381.    3562,    3742.    3742,    3742,    3742,    3742,    1742,    3742.    3742,
(.t) O1THFR I ,COME
LARHIRF       1000,    1000.    t010.   IOU10,          1000.      1000,    1000,    1000.    1000.    loo.    1000,    1000.    1000,    1000.    1000,
(-_  HhfTR EXPFNSE5
kTATR            35,       35.       3s.      3S.       35,       35,      35,       35.       35,       35*      3.5       35.       35,       35,       35,
SUBSISTDEK    1650.   1650,    1650.   169o.    1650,    1bSO,                1650,    1650,    16u     650,    1650,          1650, 1650     165,    1650,
NFL CASHFL14'7
ANriAL         1249.   1430.   1615,.  2t63,   2425.   2696,   2877.   3057,   3057.   30S7,    3057,    3057.    3057,    3057,    3057,
CfMJL^ATIF-   1249.   2680.   4291.   6354.    8779,  11474,   14351,   17408.  20466.  23523.  26581.  29638,  32696,  35753.  38810,
7.5 AZR& SA3
GROSS VAL.   7?SS.   7596.   A1457.    9s6n.  t1102.  12064.  52665.  13266.  13266.  13266.  13266.  13266.  13266.  13266.  13266,
OF Pkrif,' CTII I
CH ST  'F       2Q95.   3052.   3149.   3390).   3503.   3728,    3824.    3921,   3921.   3921,    3921,    3921.   3921,    3921,   3921,
INP,ITS
HIRF1 LAB          0.        0.        (1       ,.        A*        0,        0.       0,        0.        0.        0.        0,       0,        0.        0,
CUSOIM SF0V       O       16t.     322.      729,    1047.   1289,   1450.    1611.    1611,    1611,    1611.                1611,    1615,    161    1611,
FAP   -IC                                             -- ;,,,,,,,,,  --  -  w ,,,,, - ;  -        -
000'A INC.      4300.   4603.   o907~  5805,   6532.   7047.   7391.   7730,   7734,   7734.   7734.   7734~.   7734,   7734,   7734,
(-) FTHEP EXPENSES
TATa           r100,.    100.       tUh. 1n. Io,       100-   100.         10O,     1oo,      100.      100.      1oo0,     oo,      500,      100.      100,
SUBSISTflUE    1650,    1650.    165n.    1650,    1650,    1650,    1650,    1650.   165,.   1650,    1650.   1650,    1650,    1650,    1650,
I1 CASHFLOH
ANIIAL         255.   2843.   3237.   0095,    4782.   5297,    5641.   5984.    5984.   5984,    5984.    5984.    5984,    5984,   s984,
CI1"'LATTVF    255u.   .5443.   060n   1277s.  17558.  22855.  28496,  34480,  40465,  46449,  52433,  58418.  64402,  70386,  76371,
30 ACRE PAM
GROSS VAL.  35r,)6,  3S01(s   40923.  48199,  SQ01,  58374.  61283.  64191,  64191.  64191.  64191.  64191  66191,  64191,  64191,
OF PR1CIicriiN
CIST 'IF      141lo,  1(176P.  152S3.  16403.  17337.  18038,   18506.  18973.  18973,   18973,   18973,   18973.   18973,  18973,   18973,
INP1UTS
HT9EO LAB       OA;,   917,   9311    972o0  1U047.  IU292.  Iu456.  10619,  10619.  10619,  10619.  10619.  10619,  10619,  10619,
CUSTM SFkV    2o8.   3462,    3943,   st47.   6109.   6831,   7313.   7794.   7794.   7794.   7794,   7794,   7794,   7794,   7794.
FARM INC.    8842,   10638.  12435.   1692S,  20518.  23212.  25009.  26805,  26805,  268C5,   26805,  26805,   26805,  26805.  26805,
(-) OTHFR EXPENSES
&LTER           900,      900.      9o0.    900,       900,      900,      900.    900,       900,      900.      900,      900.    900,    900,         900,
SUBSISTENCE    1650.   1650.    1650,    l6so.   1650,   1650.   1650,    1650,    1650,   1650.    1650.    1650.   1650,   1650,    1650,
NET CASHFLOA
ANNUAL          6292,   8088,   9885,  14375,  17968,  20662,   22459.  24255,  24255,   24255.  24255.  24255,  24255,  24255,  24255,
CUMUJLATIVE    6292,  04380.  2426S.  3864o,  56608,  77271,  99729, 123984, 148239. 17249., 196749. 221004. 245259. 269554. 293769,



Table 11
PAIIlSTA
PWII LITNIDCK PEJET
VILUOR 233I 001 h880IATD0N - UNs nlW PRIOETION
(Rs' O0O)
lear 1    e"r2    rear3    lerr4    TlerS    lTear6    lTear7    Yera    rear9                ear 10    Tear 11      ear 12
Hilk Sales
Members Mik Salea (oOOL)            112        130       143       150        175       191        207       217       228        239        243         243
None eat er-Mk leaS (cOoL)           40         45        50        50         So        50         50        50        5         50         50          50
Total 1MM1 Sold                     152       175        193       200        225       241        257       267       278        289        293         293
Revenue
Commission on Iilk (RO.1/L)        15.2       17.5      19.3       20.0      22.5      24.1       25.7      26.7      27.8       28.9       29.3        29.3
Retension on non-meber.
deliveries (RO.V/L)               4.0        4.5       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0         5.0
Total                              19.2       22.0      24.3      25.0       27.5      29.1       30.7      31.7       32.8      33.9       34.3        34.3
Operating Costs
Wages                               6.o        6.o       6.o       6.o        6.o       6.o        6.0       6.o       6.o        6.0        6.o         6.o
Rent                                2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0         2.0
Milk Testing aid First Aid          2.0        2.0       2.1       2.2        2.3       2.4        2.6       2.8        3.0       3.2        3.2         3.2
Miscellaneous                       1.0        1.0       1.2       1.4        1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5        1.5         1.5
Interest Worling Capital            0.1        0.1       0.1       0.2        0.2       0.2        0.2       0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3         0.3
Total                              11.1       11.1      11.4      11.8       12.0      12.1       12.5      12.6      12.8       13.0       13.0        13.0
5omie irle Interest for Milk Plant      -         -          -         -         0.5       o.6       0.7        o.8       0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0
iet Saurlus                            8.1      10.9       12.9      13.2       15.0      16.4      17.5       18.3      19.1       19.9       20.3        20.3
Source of Funds
Members Fee                         0.5        0.2       0.1        -          -         .          -         _         -          _          _           _
Managesent ad tpdent Loan           4.0         -                   -          -
Net Surplus                         8.1       10.9      12.9      13.2       15.0      16.4       17.5      18.3      19.1       19.9       20.3        20.3
Total                              12.6       11.1      13.0      13.2       15.0      36.4       17.5      18.3      19.1       19.9       20.3        20.3
Use of Funds
Testing and Collection Rsipnet      4.0        -          -         -         4.0        -          -         -         4.o                   -           -
Loan Repayment                        0        1.0       1.5       1.5         -         -          -         -         -          -          -           -
Bozws to Members                    4.0       14.5       5.0       5.5        6.o       6.5        7.0       7.5        8.o       9.0       10.0        10.0
Reserve Fond
(i) Frcha.e Plant Stre            0.5        1.5       2.0       3.0        4.0       8.0        9.0       9.0        9.0       9.0        9.0         9.0
(ii) Working Capital               0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        -          -         -         -          -          -           -
(iii) ViA Savings A/C               3.0       3.0        3.0       1.7       (0.5)      0.9       1.5        o.8      (2.9)       0.9        0.3         0.3
Sub Total                           4.0        5.O       5.5       5.2        4.0       8.9       lo.5       9.8        7.1       9.9        9.3         9.3
Othw Application.                   0.6        0.6       1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0
Cumulative Reasre Pund              4.0        9.0      114.5     19.7       23.7      32.6       43.1      52.9      6o.0       69.9       79.2        88.4



Table 12
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHEWI PROJECT
Model:  Dairy Plant
Investment Projections -
Capacity              Cost per Unit       --- Years ---                Foreign Exchange
or Total Units             us$ '000            1       2       Total       %        US$'000
Total Plant Capacity                                              120,000 Its/2 shifts
2/
Investment Items                                                                                                              Thousands ---
1.  Civil Works
Plant yards, infrastructure                                         1,000 m2                    20/mr2          200      --       200        --
Processing bldg., modifications and improvements                    1,000 m2                    40/m2           400      --       400         --
Coolers, expansion and improvements, cheese cellar                    400  2                   200/m2           400    400        800         20
Office, lab., amenities, modifications and improvements               500 m                         2             50     --         50        10
Garage, Store, engineroom, aux. bldgs, modification & imrove-   400 m                           30/m2            120     -_       120         10
Chilling center bldgs. and sites                                   6x 100 m2                   120/m2            230    490        720        10
Sewage treatment                                                  2 m3/day/ton/milk            500/m3/day       330    670    1,000           20
Sub-total                                                                                                     1,730  1,560    3,290           14          46
2.  Utilities
Water well, pump, piping, storage tank,
chlorinator                                                      I x 20 m3/hr             1,600 m3/hr         130    190        320        50
Power sub-station, transformer, switchgrear,                      2 x 100 KVA                  130/KVA           100    160       260        60
controls
Package steam generator, fueltank, water treatment, aux.  1 x 1,000 kg/hr                  25,000/ton/hr.        100    150       250        80 (207.)
Refrigerating equipment and aux.                                   1 x 75 tons               1,200/ton           360    540        900        80 (20X)
Service lines                                                          107.                     --                -     170       170        40
Crating, freight, insurance                                             15%                     --                __    280        280        40 (20%)
Installation                                                            15%                     --                --    330       330        20
Sub-total                                                                                                        690  1,820    2,510         59
3.  Machinery and Equipment
Relocation of existing processing equipment                             --                  20,000               100    100        200        --
Chilling center equip. including can washer, water well  6 x 20,000 Its/ea.                50,000              1,500  1,500    3,000          60 (20%)
Bulk milk receiving equipment                                      60,000 lts/shift        60,000                240    360        600        90 (20%)
Pasteurizing, homogenizing, chilling, CIP                           8,000 lts/hr          160,000                640    960    1,600          90 (20%)
Bottle washing, filling and capping line                        2 x 6,000 BPud             120,000               480    720    1,200          90 (207)
Milk silds and tanks,                                             100,000 lts              100,000               400    600    1,000          80 (20%)
Butter making and packaging equipment                                  130 kg/batch         60,000               240    360        600        90 (20%)
Cheese vats, presses, tanks                                        20,000 Its/day           60,000               240    360        600        80 (20%)
Ice cream and yochurt making equipment                                  --                 70,000                280    420        700        90 (207%)
S.S. piping and fittings                                                 5%                 --                   130    190        320        90 (207.)
Office, lab. equipment, spares, tools                                   --                  20,000                80    120        200        80 (20X)
Crating, freight, insurance                                             15%                 __  -                 --  1,470    1,470          70 (20%)
Installation                                                           20%                 __  --                 --  2,260    2,260          30
Sub-total                                                                                                     4,330  9,420   13,750           69         949
4.  Transportation Equipiment 2/
Pickup trucks                                                           10                   6,900/ea            340    350        690(20%)  90 (50%)
Insulated tank-trucks                                           3 x10,000 Lts./ea.         49,500/ea             500    990    1,490(20%)  90 (50%)
Milk cans                                                       1,500 a 40 Lts.                 39/ea            200    390        590        --
Sub-total                                                                                                      1,040  1,730    2,770          71         197
5. Engineering and Overhead
Organizational expenses                                                  2%                     --               390      --       390        --
Consultant (specs, bids, supervision)                                    5%                     --               490    490        980        80
Contractor (design, implementation)                                      8%                     __               780    780    1.560          80
Sub-total                                                                                                      1,660  1,270    2,930          71         208
6.  Technical and Management Services                                1 Dairy plant mgr.         60,000/yr x 3 yrs. 590  1.190    1.780            80         142
Total Investment w/o Contingencies                                                                         10,040 16,990   27,030          62       1,690
7.  Working Capital                                                 4 weeks turn-over                --            1,720      --    1,720         --           __
B.  Physical Contingencies                                                                                           390    730    1,120          60           67
Sob total                                                                                                 12,150 17,720   29,810          59       1,757
9. Taxes and Import Duties                                                                                         1,117  2,057    3,174          --          --
Total Investnrnt                                                                                          13,267 19,777   33,044          53       1,757
I/  The existing plant in Lahore would be upgraded and its capacity expanded from the present 25,000 lts/day to 120,000 lts/day for a product mix
comprising pasteurized milk, butter, ghee, cheese, yoghurt and ice-cream.
2/ After year 3, over 50% of trucking for milk collection and delivery would be contracted.



Table 13
PAKISTAN
FUNJAB LIVESTOCKi DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Model: Dairy Plant
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Yield or Number of                                       Y------------------ years ----------------
Units at Full Development   Cost or Pries per Unit                1         2         3         4          5-20
I/
Volume -
2/
Village livestock associations implmented                          350                           _-                      40        70       110        130           --
Average daily milk collection, thousand Its.21             Seasonality 1:2                       --                      25        40        60          80         100
Total raw milk processed, million Its.                     365 days/year                         --                       9.1      14.6      21.9        29.2        36.5
incme
I nco___e -_____---- Rs  Millions ------------------
Pasteurized milk sold (} lt bottles)                       80% (3% butter fat)         Rs       2.-  ilt. at booth    18.2         29.2      35.0      46.7          58.4
Butter sold                                                10 kg/l,000 lt               Re     16.-  /kg at plant         1.5       2.3       3.5       4.6           5.8
Cheese sold 4/                                             15% -10 kg/100 lt            Rs     25.-  /kg at plant        --        --         8.2       11.0         13.7
Ice cream, yoghurt sold (0.2 kg cups)                       5%--  1 kg/lt               Rs      5.-  /kg at plant        --        --         5.5        7.3          9.1
Total sales                                                                                                              19.7      31.5      52.2       69.6         87.0
Operating Cost
Direct Cots          5/                                  (4% butterfat                  Rs      1.30/lt. at VIA          11.8      19.0      28.5       38.0         47.5
Raw mIlk purchases -                                       97. SNP
Direct labor 6!                                          ( skilled   70 persons   RB    600/ month                        0.8       0.8       0.8        0.8          0.8
Fuel, powor                                ~~~~~~~80 kg F.o./1,000 lt    Re      0.6/kg
Fuel, power                                              ( 80 kgWU/1,000  lt           Re       0.3/KWH                   0.7       1.1       1.6       2.1           2.6
Lubricants, water treatment                                       --                   Rs      10/1,000 lt                0.1       0.1       0.2        1.3          0.4
General materials                                                 .-                   Rs      20/1,000 It                0.2       0.3       0.4       0.6           0.7
Bottles aod packaging materials                          ( Bottles: 8% breakage        Rs       1.0/bottle                1.4       2.3       4.8        6.4          8.0
Cups   : 6/It.              Re       0.3/cup
Milk collection expenses                                   Radius: 200 DI              Rs       0.1/It.                   0.9       1.5       2.2        2.9          3.7
Milk retailing expenses 7/                                 Radius:  50 KM               Rs      0.2/lt.                   1.8       3.0       4.4        5.8          7.3
Taxes
sub-total                                                                                                                17.7      28.1      42.9      56.9          71.0
Overhead Casts
Maintenance 8/                                             10 persons                  Rs    600/month                   0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1            0.1
Administration expenses                                    --                           US$  20,000/month                2.4       2.4       2.4        2.4           2.4
Technical, administrative, supervisory personnel 6/  22 persons                        Rs  1,200/month                   0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3            0.3
Manageiseat                                            -    3 persons                   Rs 3,000/month                   0.1       Onl        0.1       0.1           0.1
Sob-total                                                                                                                2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9            2.9
kotal Operating Cost -/                                   175 persons                          --                       20.6      31.0      45.8      59.8           73.9
Not Operating Surplus                                                                                                   (0.9)      0.5       6.4        9.8          13.1
1/  The existing plant would be expanded during yeats 1-2 however, would be processing project milk since year 1.  The volume includes an average
20,000 lts/day currently processed by the plant.
2!  Village livestock associations would be implemented in the district of Sheikhupura from where milk would be transported in cans to chilling centers
and then on to the plant in road tankers.
3/ Includes purchases of milk from non-members.
4/ Cheese would mostly be made fron surplus milk during the flush season.
5/ Butterfat content would drop gradually as milk from grossbreds would become predominant, price represents an average.
6/  Ta avoid layoffs and subsequent rehiring of staff, all personnel required at full development would be kept on the payroll.
7/  Milk would be retailed mostly through grocery stores and existing booths.
8/ Includes maintenance materials.
9/  Working capital year 1: RB  1.7 M assusiug an average turnover of four weeks.



Table 14
!ACISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model:  Dairy Plant
Cash Flow Prolections
(Rs Millions)
---------------------------------------------------   Years --------------------------------------------------------
1     2      3      4     5      6      7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Income
Borrower's equity -/             2.6   4.2  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --                 _    --    _ _            --
Long term loan 27               10.2  16.6
Short term loan 3/              --    --
Total sales 4/                  19.7  31.5  52.2  69.6  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0  87.0
Last year's cash balance        --      0.8   0.4   3.1   3.0   3.9   4.6   1.1   2.0   9.2   6.5   2.7   2.4   4.6   6.9   9.1  12.4   3.8   0.8   2.0
Total Cash Inflow               32.5  53.1  52.6  72.7  90.0  90.9  91.6  88.1  89.0  96.2  93.5  89.7  89.4  91.6  93.9  96.1  99.4  90.8  87.8  89.0
Expenditures
5                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.3
Investments:- Fixed assets  11.1 20.8 -4.4 --  --  10.0 10.0  4.4-                                                                           4.4  9.3 --  --
Working captl.  1.7                                      --                   --           --    --    --                    --    --
Operating Cost                  18.9  31.0  45.8  59.8  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9  73.9
Debt Service:
Long term loan principal-            --    --      4.5   4.9   5.3   5.8   6.3
Long term loan interest    --         0.9   2.3   2.3   1.9   1.5   1.0   0.5
Short term loan principal            --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Short tern loan interest
Income  Tax                                   --      1.1   2.9   3.1   3.4   3.6   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8   3.9   3.8
Dividends distributed            --    --      1.4   2.0   2.5   2.5   2.0   1.8   2.0   2.0   3.0   5.2   7.0   7.0   7.0   6.0   4.0   3.0   8.0   9.0
Total Cash Outflow              31.7  52.7  49.5  69.7  86.1  86.3  90.5     6          9.   89,7  90.8  87.3  84.8  84.7  84.8  83.7  95.6  90.0  85.8  86.7
Cash Balance at Year's End  0.8   0.4   3.1   3.0   3.9   4.6   1.1   2.0   9.2   6.5   2.7   2.4   4.6   6.9   9.1  12.4   3.8   0.8   2.0   2.3
1/  20% of total investment.
2/  80% of total investment, 857% interest, 7 year including 2 years of grace.
3/  1232% of interest.
4/ From Table 13
5/  From Tableit, existing plant facilities, not renovated under the project, would be replaced in years 10-11 at a total
value of about Rs 20 M, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in years
7-12-17, including duties and excluding engineering
6/  50%, after interest charges and Rs  5.4 M depreciation charge including the existing facilities.



Table 15
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Investment Projections
Capacity              Cost per Unit       ----Years----                Foreign Exchange
or Total Units             US $ '000            1      2       Total       %         us$'00
1/'
Total Plan Capacity                                            400 head cattle/l shift
Invstn  IThousands -----
1.  Land and Site preparation                                               1 ha                        3/mr           300      --       300       __
2.  Civil Works                                                                   2                         2
Plant yards                                                           3,000 m                      15/mr          310    140        450        --
Fencing, infrastructure                                                 400 m2                     45/rn2         180      --       180        10
Cattle pens                                                           1,200                       2 60/r2         500    220        720        20
Main slaughtering & processing bldg., loading dock                    1,000 mr2                   250/at        1,750    750    2,500          30 (20%)
Chill-rooms, freezer, incld. railage                                    300 m2                    300/m           630    270        900        30 (201)
By products processing bldg.                                            400 m2                    130/.2          370    150        520       20
Office, lab., amenities, housing                                        400 m2                    150/n2          420    180        600        30 (207,)
Hide shed, garage, store, aux. bldgs.                                 1,000  2                    110/r2          850    250    1,100          20
Effluent treatment (screen, trickling filter, sedimentation) 2/m3/day/head                        500/m3/day   2,000  2.000    4.000           20
Sob-total                                                                                                       7,010  3,960   10,970         23          252
3. Utilities
Water wells, pumps, piping, storage tank, chlorinator             2 x  50 m3/hr                1,400/m3/hr        570    830    1,400          50 (207%)
Power sub-station, transformer, switchgear, controls              2 x 400 KVA                     130/KVA         420    620    1,040         60 (20%)
Package steam generators, fuel tank, water treatment            2 x 3,000 kg/hr               20,000/ton/hr       490    710    1,200         80 (20%)
Refrigerating Equipment and aux.                                  3 x  50 tons                 1,300/ton          780  1,170    1,950         80 (20%)
Service lines                                                           10%                        --             230    330        560       40
Crating, freight, insurance                                             15%                        --               --    920       920       40 (207.)
Installation                                                            15%                        --              --  1.060      1.060       20
Sub-total                                                                                                       2,490  5,640    8,130         57          455
4. Machinery and Equipment
Cattle slaughtering and on-the-rail-dressing                            50 head/hr            10,000/head/hr  2,000  3,000    5,000            80 (20%)
complete incl. viscera conveyor & trolleys
Edible product handling eqpt.(tables, trays, trucks)                    50 head/hr              2,000/head/hr    400    600    1,000           70 (20%)
Boning and meat packaging equipment                                     10 head/hr             3,000/head/hr    120    180          300       70 (20%)
Edible by-product processing equipment                                  50 head/hr              2,000/head/hr    400    600    1,000           80 (20%)
Inedible by-product rendering equipment                                 50 head/hr             6,000/head/hr  1,200  1,800    3,000           90 (20%)
Office, lab., workshop, laundry equipment, spares, tools, misc.  --                          100,000              400    600    1,000         80 (20%)
Crating, freight, insurance                                             15%                        __              --  1,700    1,700         70 (20%)
Installation                                                            20%                        --               --  2,600    2,600         40
Slb-total                                                                                                       4,520 11,080   15,600         74        1,139
5. Transportation Equipment -
Cattle trucks                                                     2 x 12 head/ea              20,000/ea.            --    400       400(20%) 90 (50b)
Meat delivery vans                                                4 x  2 tons/ea.             20,000/ea.            --    800       800(20%) 90 (50%)
Pick up trucks                                                          2                      7,000/ea.          140      --       140(201) 90 (507)
Sub-total                                                                                                         140  1,200    1,340         90          121
6. Engineering and Overhead 3'
Organizational expenses                                                 2%                         --              700      --      700        --
Consultant (specs, bids, supervision)                                   5%                         --             870    880    1,750          80
Contractors (design, implementation)                                    8%                         __           1,400  1.400    2.800          80
Sub-total                                                                                                       2,970  2,280    5,250         69          362
7.  Technical and Management Services                                ( 1 meat plant mgr.           60,000/yr x 3 yrs 590  1,190)   3,270           80         262
1 operations mgr.          50,000/yr x 3 yrs  --  1,490)26
Total Investment w/s Contingencies                                                                           17,720 26,840    44,560        58       2,591
8.  Working Capital                                                     2 weeks turnover                                       510        510      --          --
9.  Physical Contingencies                                                                                             710  1,095       1,805      55          99
Sub total                                                                                                   18,430 28,445    46,875        57       2,690
l0.  Ta_tes and Import Duties                                                                                         2,889  3,731       6,620      -e
Total Costs                                                                                                 21,319 32,176   53,495         50       2,690
1/  One plant would be financed, it would slaughter,, for a fee, also the butcher volme for the city of Lahore, where it would be located.
2/ Butchers would bring their cattle and withdraw the carcass meat in their own vans.
3/ Excluding iteo 5.



Table 16
PAKISTAN
PITNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Assumptions for Computing Sales Revenues
1/                                                     2/
Slauthering in Existing Abbattoirs -          --------------- Slaughtering in New Plant ------------------------
-------- Butcher Volume -------  --------- Butcher Volume ------------  -------- PLB's Volume -----------
Wholesale    Total                    Wholesale        Total                   Wholesale       Total
I  t  e  m  s                 Yield/Head  Price/Unit  Revenue   Yield/Head  Price/Unit  Revenue/Read  Yield/Head Price/Unit Revenue/Head
Average live weight 3/                   270 kg          --          --         270   kg                                  270   kg
Dressed weight yield 4/                   48 %                                   49   %                                    49   %
kg            RB         Rs           kg           Rs             Rs             kg           RsK          Rs
Filet                                  5   2.0          6.30/kg     12.6          2.0        6.30/kg         12.6           2.0         6.30/kg      12.6
Special cuts (round, steaks)(w/bone)               }                                                                       30.0 68.- /kg    300.0
Curry beef (wlbone)                      1126.8         5.40/kg   689.0         129.5        5.40/kg       703.6}          99.5         5.40/kg    537-3
Minced meatJl
Kidneys                                     0.8                                   0.8                 J                     0.8         5.40/kg       4.3
Total Dressed Weight                   129.6                                 132.3                                      132.3
Tripe                                     dnit          2/unit       2.0          5.5        3.- /kg         16.5           5.5         3.- /kg      16.5
Liver                                                                             3.3        5.40/kg         17.8           3.3         5.40/kg      17.8
Heart                                                                             0.7        3.- /kg          2.1           0.7         3.- /kg       2.1
Tongue                                                                            1.8        5.40/kg          9.7            1.8        5.40/kg       9.7
Cheek and head meat                       unit         40/unit      40.0          2.0        5.40/kg         10.8           2.0         5.40/kg      10.8
Brains                                                                            0.5        5.- /kg          2.5           0.5         5.- /kg       2.5
Skulls and jaws                                                                   5.0          --             --            5.0           --          --
Legs                                                                              5.0          --             --            5.0           --          --
Hooves and horns                                                                  3.0          --             --            3.0           --          --
Gut (casings)                           lunit       Given as part payment   1 set           20.0/set        40.0/set    1 set         40.0/set       40.0
Lungs, trimmings, etc.                             I to slaugh erer               2.5          -_             --            2.5           __          --
Edible fat                                -_             __           __         10.0        5.40/kg         54.0          10.0        54.0/kg       54.0
Inedible tallow                           --             --           --          8.0        4.50/kg         36.0           8.0        36.0/kg       36.0
Blood                                      5            5.0/head    5.0          13.0         --              --           13.0           --          --
Blood meal                                --             --           --          2.5        3.50/kg          8.8           2.5         8.8/kg        8.8
Bone and meat meal                        --             --           --          8.0        0.90/kg          7.2           8.0         7.2/kg        7.2
Hoof and horn meal                         --            --            --         2.0        3.- /kg          6.0            2.0        6.0/kg        6.0
Hide                                       16          90/unit      90.0         15.0      140/unit         140.0           15.0      140/unit      140.0
Total Revenue per Head                  --             --        838.6        --             --        1,067.6           --         --          1,205.6
838.6                                   838.6
Incremental Revenue/Head                                                                                 229.0                                    367.0
Meat and Variety Meats:                                                                                                 146.1
1/  One largeabattoir slaughtering about 250-300 head/day and two small, killing 20-30 head/day each.
2/  The new plant would have a nominal capacity of 400 head/day: 350 head/day for the butcher volume and 50 head/day for the LDDB volume.
3/ Corresponds to a composite slaughter of culled bullocks, cows, female buffalos and male buffalo calves.
4/  Yields would increase at least 1% by elimination of present air drying of carcasses.
5/ PLB's volume would include sale of wrapped frozeri special cuts that could be sold at higher prices through grocery stores.



Table 17
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Yield or Number of                                   ---------- Years ------------
1/                                             Units at Full Development  Cost or Price per Unit   1-2            3        4       5-20
Volume -
Total slaughtering butcher's account  )                                                          ~~                 50,000  47,500   47,500
Total slaughtering LDDB's account                     250 days/year                                                 10,000  12,500   12,500
------ Rs  Millions ---------
Income
Butchers fees                                3/             --                      PRp      5/head             --        0.3      0.2       0.2
Sale of byproducts from butcher's volume -                                          PRp   229/head                       11.3    10.8       10.8
Sale of meat and byproducts from LDDB's volume /(Meats: 146.1 kg/head               PRp 1,205.6/head            --       11.9    14.9       14.9
(Frozeni in poly bags                                     --       2.       259        5.
Operating Cost
Direct Cost
Livestock purchases (LDDB's account)                  Avg. 270 kg/head              PRp      2.50/kg            --        6.8      8.4       8.4
condemnations 1%
Direct labor                                         (skilled   90 persons          FRp   600  /month                     1.0      1.0       1.0
(unskilled 90 persons          PRp   350  /month
Fuel, power                                          (30 KWH 1 head                 PRp      0.3/KWH                      1.0      1.1       1.1
(15 kg P.0./head               PRp      0.6/kg
Lubricants, water treatment                                 --                      10% of energy bill          --        0.1      0.1       0.1
General materials, salt                               2 kg salt/hide                PRp      1.3/kg             --        0.2      0.2       0.2
Packaging materials                                   1 poly bag/0.25 kg            PRp      5  /100 bags       --        0.3      0.4       0.4
Freight livestock                                     radius: 300 km                PRp    50  /head            --        0.5      0.5       0.5
Marketing expenses                                    radius:  50 km                PRp   200  /ton             --        0.3      0.4       0.4
Taxes                                                (Access tax into city          PRp      2.20/head          __        0.0      0.0       0.0
(Slaughtering fee             PRp      0.75/head          _        1           *      1
Sub-total                                                                                                       --       10.2    12.1       12.1
overhead Cost
Maintenance 4/                                        20 persons                    PRp   600  /month           --          0.2      0.2       0.2
Administration expenses                                                             US$12,000  /month           --           1.4      1.4       1.4
Technical, administrative, supervisory personnel 25 persons                         PRp 1,200  /month           --          0.4      0.4       0.4
Management                                             4 persons                    PRp 3,000  /month           --          0.1      0.1       0.1
Sub-total                                                                                                       --          2.1      2.1       2.1
Total Operating Cost                                  229 persons                            --                 --       12.3    14.2       14.2
Net Operating Surplus                                                                                                    11.2    11.7       11.7
1/  The plant would be built in years 1-2 and commence operations in year 3.  It would slaughter buffalos and cattle for the private
meat trade in Lahore (butcher's account) and for LDDB's account, LDDB's meat would be sold mostly in Lahore.
2/  Slaughtering in the new plant would not represent an additional cost to butchers, their current costs would be paid as a fee/head.
3/  From Table 16. 
4/  Including maintenance materials.



Table 18
PAKISTAN
PUIJAB LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model: Slaughtering Plant
Cash Flow Projections
(Rs Millions)
-------------------------------  Years  --______--_________________________-__
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Income
Borrower's equity-             3.8   6.5  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --         _    --
Long term loan_2              15.2  26.3
Short term loan 31             0.1   1.4
Total sales 4/                --    --    23.5  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9
Last year's cash balance      --      0.1   0.1   3.6   4.7   5.1   5.3   3.0   2.8   2.4   1.8   1.5   4.0   8.8  13.6  18.4  23.2  11.7   2.5   2.3
Total Cash Inflow             19.1  34.3  23.6  29.5  30.6  31.0  31.2  28.9  28.7  28.3  27.7  27.4  29.9  34.7  39.5  44.3  49.1  37.6  28.4  28.2
Expenditures
5/                                                                                                                        2.3
Investments:Fixed assets t     19.0  32.3  --         _     2.3 -2.3 -14.0  14.0  --    --
Working capital'--       0.5  --        --                              --  --    --    --    --
Operating Costs               --    --    11.8  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2  14.2
Debt Service:
Long term loan principal           --    --     3.9   4.2   4.6   5.0   5.4   5.8   6.3   6.3  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    -           --
Long term loan interest    --       1.3   3.5   3.5   3.2   2.8   2.4   2.0   1.6   1.1   0.5
Short term loan principal  --      0.1   1.4  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    --
Short term  loan interest   --      0.0   0.2  --    --    --    --    --    --    --    __
71
Income Tax -                  --   -_       2.1   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.8   3.0   3.2   3.4   3.7   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9
Dividends Distributed         --    --      1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   8.0   8.0
Total Cash Outflow            19.0  34.2  20.0  24.8  25.5  25.7  28.2  26.1  26.3  26.5  26.2  23.4  21.1  21.1  21.1  21.1  37.4  35.1  26.1  26.1
Cash Balance at Year's End  0.1   0.1   3.6   4.7   5.1   5.3   3.0   2.8   2.4   1.8   1.5   4.0   8.8  13.6  18.4  23.2  11.7   2.5   2.3   2.1
1/  20% of total investment.
2/  80% of total investment, 8W% interest, 10 years including 2 years of grace.
3! 124 of interest.
4/ From Table 17.
5/ From Table 15, project machinery and equipment would be replaced in years 17-18 and transportation equipment in
years 7-12-17 including duties and excluding engineering.
6/ Equivalent to two weeks' turnover.
7/ 50%, after interest charges and Rs 3.BM depreciation charge.



PA.S TANl
FUNJ1B LIUfSICIK PROJECT
Consolidated Goverrment Cash Ilow
R(fl.iona)
Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Y!r k        Y-r 5        Year 6       Year 7       Yr 8         Year 9       Year 10        Tear 11        Year 12
Government Inflow
Ixport taxes and levies                   5         13.5          4.6          2.2
Sales tax from
LAhore slaugbterlowae                                        2.1          2.2          2.4          2.6          2.8          3.0          3.2           3.4            3.7           3.9
Iahore mlk plant                                                          1.1          2.9          3.1          3.4          3.6          3.8           3.8            3.8           3.8
Total Inflow                         5         13.5          6.7          7.S          5. J         6.1          6.2          6.6          1.0           7.2            7.S           7.7
aovgerint Outflow
Grant to l4inistry of Livestock.     5         15           15           10
Grant to Uiversiy                  3          7            4            3
Grant to Sarvey Pakistan             0.5        0.5
3'uty to Pl                         1          1
Loan to VI"a                         0.3        0.4          0.5          o.6
Iirmriental operating costa
NIrlstry of Livestock                                                               3.5          3.5           3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5            3.5            3.5
Total Outflow                        9.8       23.9         19.5         13.6          3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5           3.5            3.5           3.5
Balame                              (4.8)     (10.4)       (12.8)        (6.1)         1.8          2.6          2.7          3.1          3.5           3.7            3.7           3.7
Cuauative                           (4.8)     (15.2)       (28.0)       (34.1)       (32.2)       (29.7)       (27.0)       (23.9)       (20.4)        (16.7)         (13.0)         (9-3)



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Cash Flow and Economic Rate of Return
Rs(millions)
Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year    Year
1      2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9      10     11-15
Department Livestock
Investment                   5      15     15      10
Incremental Operations                                   3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Livestock Training
Investment                   3       7      4       3
PLB
Investment                  13      30     50      40
Incremental Operations       6      10     19      23     30      30     30      30     30      30     30
Survey of Pakistan
Investment                 0.5    0.5
Cost Stream                  27.5   62.5      88      86   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5   33.5
Benefit Stream i                 0    9.7   23.2   38.6   57.9   86.9  115.8  145.0  164.0  183.4  193.0
A.   Internal Rate of Return (Economic)               =          29.5
B.   If costs increase by 10% ROR (E)                 =          26.5
C.   If costs increase by 20% ROR (E)                 =          23.8
D.   If Benefits Decrease by 10% ROR (E)              =          26.2
E.   If Benefits Decrease by 20% ROR (E)              =          22.6
F.   If Benefits delayed by one year ROR (E)          =          22.2
-/From Table 9.






CHART 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Chief Minister          I
I                                             Department of Livestock Development
ProjectCoordirating CmmitteeDepanment of finance
Project Coordinating Committee                  _            Department of Planning and Development
-University of Lyalipur
Punjab Livestock Board
Participating Banks
Animal Husbandry Commissioner (GOP)
Survey
PLB                         Department                                                      Agricultural                          of
_  of Livestock          .                                  University of Lyallpur                 Pakistan
FMD Vaccine                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lend
J    Project Training     .      FMD Vaccine    l                                         _   Faculty of Animal                       Use
Center                        Laborstory                                                     Husbandry                        Mapping
VLA                  _      Al Service                                              L    Short Course and
Extension Dept.
Mifk Corporationo Livestock Relearch 
Milk Corporation   t,     center         I
Abattoir Facility         L      Livestock        l
l           l         l     ~~~~~~~Extension l
PLEi Farm$ 
World Bank-16012






PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
WNpg-tiat   _ .Cicdil             CrIedtYeI               -                            Y-al 2                           Y-T 3                           Yea- 4
PLB
1 APQo tin tnewumsttagmn d,,octo, PL9
2 Aptp     mlln ness alidito, PLB
3 Reorgon,sat,onnt s,,ce,,scon
ard -c-cernr,g s--co, PLd
4 E-tabah,-e,n of PLB tr--ifl
5  Ptpsts..o- of courss and
tea-ifng ttaft
VLA's
6. Selspt-o- of VLA  mple-n,nhc-on_
I  1raoin-g of VLA  spe-rhea  cams 
8 Pctaul,c,ment of VLA's
9 S.Ieccioc a-d --uood-nto f
-t--nson -aff
MILK PLANT
10 Tran-ln, of L.h-f Pia,0t to PLE_
11 Mlik Iclictron from VLA'_
12 Ap,o--tmct, of des-gncoosoltaot
and plant1manag
13 Te-de,ng of eqn, p-itreq,>,ements
14 StI.ctursl change. of milk plant
15 P-omis-cn s,d ,nctcllo,eot of
pr oGtssmig e 40 '0 0 0
16 Ago-m-nt olocst,ooof m-1k
0001, og centers
17. Pctabl,stmeor 0,14 vquupmcot of_                                                                                                                                                              _
0001109 ceotr
MEAT PLANT
18 Reo-gan--atioo of Sihala sisoghte- plant
19 Rectuitmeot of consoltanfe no dcs,gn
cla-ghtel"ruse
20 Ptepararioo of spci-fca,ooa dndtenda- s
to, -V oworksand equipment
21 Construction a-d e          foipmentof
slsughtethoote
22 Oecru-me-t 2f uoneosanrs fot
nosnogcmcnt
PLB FARMS
23 Pt.panst,o.  of naoagement plant fo.
PLB f-ems
24 ELoal-ation of coeciffie elipme-It needs_
25 Poo-o-nmcr,t of eruitmenn
FMD
26 Appointmento tfconsultaris for FMD lab
27 D-cigo ot FMD ab_
28 Constro-tion and  eq Dipment ot FMD lb_.
29 Stalf ts ooq
30. Vaccine Prodactiori
31 Implementation of field tisl on_
eonomic mpact f FMD
Al
32. Rec--rnent Al -o-sulnsntt
33 Es-blshmn-t of bulk Iretog
fscilitiesat Al cent-d and
_taff t-aiing
34 Est-bl,shmech-at tfmco d-srricurioc
RESEARCHi
35 R-c-u-tment ften,or . sea.,ch Office,
36. Design of -csoarut prngram
37 De_elntpmet of phlys-lat facilts at _
Bahad-rngar Isoettock fa-ti
EIJUCAT5ON
3B Recr-o-t ten  -f m   -nslrat  Io reuIeoo
39. Staff training f0ll-hips
40. Itmplme--atot- recited prngram
LAND USE MAPPING
41 Po_ha-e of i-man2Y
42 Cnmpote, p-o-oningE
43. Gtound tauthing
44 Computer prin--ut
00eVd tark-f6tdN






CHART 3
PROFILE OF MONTHLY LABOR, BULLOCK POWER AND WATER REQUIREMENTS
PER ACRE FOR A TYPICAL CROPPING PATTERN IN SHEKHUPURA DISTRICT
Labor Input/Ac.                                  Draft Annual I nput/Ac.                                    Water InputIAc.
Man-days/Ac.                                           Bullock Pair Days/Ac.                                      Ac./Ins.
7                   7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
6                   6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ 
2.0~~~~~/ 7
5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~//7/
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f/7,7
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/77/
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~/77~
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/77/
//e~// /7
ell ~    ~     /   7  /   7
/7 7/7 1/ 77/ 77~~~e
JoriFabMarAprMayjunJulAugSep  ct  ov  ec  an  eb  larAprmayJun  ut  ug  ep  ct  ov ec  an  e  Mr Ap ma/ju7/u7Au/ Se  Oc7/ o  D/
7/ /// /    w/ /7an71677






Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
VLA by-Laws Highlights
Objectives
1.        To increase milk, meat and agricultural output through improzed
husbandry, the provision of improved extension and primary services and
the more efficient use of production inputs.
Membership
2.        Only livestock owners residing and in good standing in the area,
and owning at least one cow or buffalo; not engaged in milk collection or
sale except under VLA auspices; owning at least one share in the Association
(Rs 10 par value). Services available to non-members only on terms as spe-
cified by majority vote of membership; no bonuses to non-members; limited
liability of Association.
Meeting
3.        Supreme authority vested in general meeting of members which reviews
management performance; provides policy guidelines; approves or rejects bud-
gets and new programs; elects management committee; one member one vote;
majority rule.
Management
4.        Membership meeting to elect management committee of VLA members of
seven to nine members; fixed terms of office; chairman elected annually by
the committee; committee employs staff and supervise operations; allocates
bonuses and works to ensure VLA profitability. Registrar of companies may
appoint administrator when mismanagement is evident.
Funds
5.        Share subscrLptions, donations, loans, deposits; share transac-
tions at par value only (Rs 10); no members' share to exceed 1/10 of paid
up capital; and loan and deposit liabilities not to exceed five times net
worth.
Payments to Members
6.        Daily milk payments unless otherwise specified by majority vote of
membership, subject to fourteen day maximum payment period.



Appendix 1
Page 2
Credit
7.        No loans or advances in cash or kind, excepting trade credit ex-
tended to the Punjab Livestock Board; no undertakings of any kind with res-
pect to a member's or any other party's debts without two-thirds approval
of the management clmmnittee.
Allocation of Earnings
8.        25% of net profit allocated to Reserve Fund (80% or more of this
twenty five invested in Milk Plant Shares for at least first 10 years) 2%
to Village Education Fund; maximum dividend 9% of share capital. Balance
distributed as follows: 65% bonus to members based on patronage, 10% to the
cattle development fund, 10% to community development fund, 10% to village
information fund and 5% bonus to staff.
By-law Changes
9.        Subject to approval by a two-thirds majority of general meeting,
at least 50% of members and approval of the Registrar of Companies.



Appendix 2
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Milk Corporation By-Laws Highlights-
1.        Objectives:  Promote village level dairy development through improved
animal husbandry, supported by an integrated package of services for affiliated
VLA's and their members; and provide reliable milk marketing channels.
2.        Membership:  VLA's in good standing and Government, subscribing to
at least one share; limited liability; non-Government member's holding may not
exceed one-fifth of total paid-up share capital.
3.        Membership Meetings:  Each shareholder entitled one delgate; one
member one vote; majority rule; supreme authority vested in membership meet
ings reviews operations, plans, budgets, expenses, audits, loans, management
performance and all corporation activities; corporation directors selected
to assure representation of farmers and interested agencies.
4.        Management:  Ultimate authority vested in membership meeting, as
delegated to a 11 member board of directors. Directors appoint and fix re-
muneration of General Manager and divisional managers. General Manager re-
sponsible to Board for all operations as Chief Executive Officer. Directors
have one vote each, majority rule.
5.        Funding:  Share capital subscriptions, deposits, loans, grants, do-
nations, subsisidies; share transactions at per value only (Rs 100); loan and
deposit liabilities not to exceed ten times the net worth 2/ of the Corpora-
tion.
6.        Distribution of Earnings:  25% of net profit allocated to reserve
fund; 2% contribution to the Cooperative Education fund; maximum dividend 9%
of paid-up share capital; and maximum 80% of the balance as bonuses to mem-
bers and staff, credits to funds and other reserves as approved by member-
ship changes in distribution of earnings subject to approval of Registrar of
Companies.
7.        By-Law Changes:  Approval of two-thirds vote of general meeting;
with approval of Registrar of Companies.
1/   Subject to the requirements of the Companies Act.
2/   Paid-up share capital plus reserves, less accumulated losses.



Appendix 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Composition and Training of VLA Implementation Team
Team Composition
1.   Team Leader
Job Description
Overall responsibility for promotion of the VLA concept
amongst farmers; the formation and registration of Vil-
lage Livestock Associations; assistance in VLA staff
selection and training; advising VLA management councils
on operational procedures and financial management;
organizing the Al, animal health, milk marketing and
input supply services and; liaison with Ministry of
Agriculture and its extension staff as well as with
other development agencies.
Qualifications and Experience
Degree in agriculture science with emphasis on animal
production training, and post graduate experience in
rural extension/social work, marketing and simple ac-
counting. Good personality and speaker, with compre-
hensive knowledge of village livestock, agricultural
and social problems.
2.   Veterinary Officer
Job Description
Assisting Team leader in selecting suitable villages
for VLA membership, organizational assistance in form-
ing VLA's and planning and supervizing preventative
medicine and AI campaigning for each VLA.
Qualifications
Degree in Veterinary Science and field experience in
animal health coverage. Good background in small
farm agriculture and capability of deputizing for
team leader.



Appendix 3
Page 2
3.   Farm Management Specialist
Job Description
To develop and promote integrated farm management
plans for typical farmers in participating villages,
determine input requirements, marketing and storage
needs and pay specific attention to the integration
of livestock and agriculture. He would liase close-
ly with the agricultural advisory services and their
field programs and be the key fodder development
adviser to VLA extension staff.
Qualifications
Degree in agricultural science and post graduate ex-
perience in the theory and practice of small farm
management and in fodder production on smallholdings.
A good understanding of the competition and comple-
mentarity among crop, fodder and livestock produc-
tion is essential.
4.   Dairy Technologist
Job Description
Supervising the formation of milk routes and VLA milk
collection, grading, testing, payment, cooling and
transport of milk to the Dairy Plant.
Qualifications
Degree in Dairy Technology, post graduate experience
in dairy plant management, experience in and under-
standing of village social organization.
5.   Artificial Insemination Officer
Job Description
Supplying Al services to VLA farmers, technical assis-
tance to VLA staff responsible for inseminations, super-
vising semen distribution and record keeping on repro-
ductive situation.
Qualifications
Veterinary graduate with post graduate experience in
all facets of AI and reproductive physiology.



Appendix 3
Page 3
6.   Administration Officer
Job Description
To prepare guidelines for the financial and organiza-
tional management of VLA's, assist in their implemen-
tation and provide for supervision. In particular
assist in organizing the communication link between
VLA's and develop simple accounting and financial
control procedures.
Qualifications
Sound training and practical experience in controlling
accounts of small commerical enterprises plus a practical
working knowledge of small farm agriculture.
7.   Technical Assistants - 10 posts
Job Description
To act as the initial resident staff of VLA's while per-
manent staff selected by each VLA are being trained. To
initiate VLA management, record keeping, procurement and
financial procedures, and to be able to take over as
village extention officers once a group of 8 to 10 VLAs
formed and functioning.
Qualifications
Diploma of Agriculture or Veterinary Medicine or better,
or a B. Commerce, with experience in small company and/or
cooperative organization, book keeping and supply pro-
curement. Strong background in village agriculture
and ability to live and work with village farmers.
Training Program for VLA Implementation Teams
Objectives
8.        To equip selected interdisciplinary teams of about 16 individuals
with the theoretical and practical knowledge required to select, organize and
supervize successful VLA's.
Structure
9.        The training program will consist of 6 weeks of class room sessions
and discussion in the first phase, 2 weeks of field training in the second
phase, and 2 weeks of on the job training and case studies in the third phase.



Appendix 3
Page 4
gram Content
10. (i) Cooperative and Small Company Legislation.
(a) Principles of company and cooperative law.
(b) History of farm cooperatives in Pakistan.
(c) Bylaws of the Mlilk PLant and the VLA.
(ii) Organization of VLA's and their affiliation to the Milk Plant.
(a) Discussion and outline of similar models elsewhere.
(b) Procedure and importance of village survey.
(c) Key factors in organizing a successful VLA.
(d) Planning and milk route.
(e) Registration procedure.
(iii) Management of VLA's.
(a) Key elements in financial viability.
(b) The critical role of milk supplies.
(c) Equality and influence on the management committee.
(d) Supervising the VLA.
(iv) Quality Control of Milk.
(a) Composition testing equipment and testing methods.
(b) Key role of cleanliness and cooling in milk collection.
(c) Factors affecting fat and SNF values and the adequate
pricing of milk.
(v) Marketing.
(a) Agricultural and livestock procurement systems in use.
(b) Technical and credit inputs for meat, milk and crops
and their source.



Appendix 3
Page 5
(vi) Farm Management
(a)  The interdependence of crop and livestock production.
(b)  The critical role of draft power and its optimum use.
(c)  Common diseases of livestock and their prevention.
(d)  Critical crop planting dates and crop husbandry
procedures.
(e)  Basic elements of animal nutrition
(f)  Water use and irrigatLon efficiency.
(g)  Planning a demonstration farm and the optimal farming
pattern.
(vii) Accounts and Auditing
(a) Preparation of a cash book, ledger, trial balance,
profit and loss accounts and balance sheet.
(b) The auditing process.
(c)  The weak points of thle system.
(viii)  Group Discussion (following field work).
Case studies of:
(a)  Organizing of VLA.
(b)  Transport of milk from producer to VLA to Plant.
(c)  Spoilage of milk.
(d)  A Successful VLA extension program.
(e)  Appraisal oF peierfrmance oal a VLA.
II.       Scope of Program
In this first project The VLA program will consist of about four
implementation teams of 16 members, 1,00! paid staff of the VLA's, 70 exten-
sion staff and about 1,000 VLA committee members.



Appendix 3
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Summary of Project Training Requirements for PLB Centre
Course                    Duration                 FPresuency                   Trainee Numbers             Qualificarion       Course Emphasis
I. in-s tocok
VLA Imnlemrntation        10 weeks Der team        Two  courses in year         4 teams eech of 15          Technical           Principals of establishment
Trans (includes           at icaugoratio- of    one and two                                                 qua1ifi stiom,    and operation of VLA's
initial e-tensio-         team                                                                              field reperiece, (Appe-dim 1)
staff).                                                                                                     personal quality;
Selected by Adver-
VLA lm-levrotatio-                                                                                          tisement and Tribunal
Team Refresher
Course                    One week                  Twine Der year              3 teams each of 18          Same as abmue       Case study reviews
Dairy on] meat            adhoc                     Twice per year              All senior plant            Technical           Processing,problems and
processing                                                                      staff                       qualification       plant management
Overseas                  2-3 months                adhoc                       12 key PLB and              Job                 Specific selected type
fellowships                                                                     Ministry Staff              performance
vLA's             VLA Staff                  8 weeks at                4 courses per year          2 scaff from                Grade 8 or          Milk testing
appointment                                          each VLA maximum            better village    Record keeping
30 trainees per             youths selected   Protective medicine
course                      by VLA              Cattle insemination
VLA Staff                 One week once             4 courses/year              Same as above               Same as above       Case study reviews
Refresher Course          a year
VLA Management            4 days once               4 c-urnies/year             2 to 3 members              Committee           VLA bylaws
Committee                 a year                                                from each VLA per           members             Review of problems and
year                                            cane studies
30 trainees per                                 Annual plan of work
course
Extension         Village Extension          One day per               24 times/year                32 VEW Staff               Technical           Crossbreeding
Workers                   fartnight                                              one day per week           experience,         Fodder production
selected by         Draft cattle productiuity
Tribunal            Farm management issues
Clean milk pr-ductios
Animal nutrition
Crop husbandry
Route Extension           10 weeks                  To supplement VLA implementation teams as required, extension training as for
Workers                                             implementation teams
Accomodation               Approximately 2000 man weeks per year
Requirement              or 50 students per week



Appendix 4
Page I
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Key Personnel and Consultants
A. Secretary of Livestock Coordination Committee
Background
1.        GOPa proposes to establish a Project Coordination Committee under
the authority of the Chief Minister to assume overall control and direction
of the proposed livestock project. The functions of this committee would be:
(a) to ensure adherence to accepted technical, financial and
economic standards for the activities to be financed under
the project;
(b) to assist project agencies in carrying out ICB procurement pro-
cedures;
(c) to review and record disbursement applications to IDA on be-
half of participating project agencies.
(d) to identify and resolve problems hindering project implemen-
tation;
(e) to monitor and evaluate project performance;
(f) to prepare a follow-up project.
To carry out these functions the Policy Committee would have a small
Secretariat.
Responsibilities
2.        In the context of the foregoing, the Committee Secretary will be
responsible for the staff work required in collecting and assembling such
information as is required with respect to the Committee deliberations and
actions on each of items l(a) through (f).
Qualifications
3.        The Secretary of the Committee would have a good graduate degree in
agriculture or agricultural economics. He would have experience in project
management, in simple accountancy and in livestock development planning. He
should be capable of inspiring confidence and trust and have a good understand-
ing of the Government administrative system.



Appendix 4
Page 2
B.  FMD Vaccine Production
4.        The specific objectives of the consultants are to assist the
Go-ernment of Punjab in:
(a) training staff to operate all aspects of a FID vaccine
production unit involving: (i) the cultivation of BHK
cells in both suspension and monolayer, (ii) the typing
and subtying of local RID virus, (iii) potency testing
of FMD vaccine;
(b)  designing a FMD production unit of 3 M monovalent doses per
annum, suited to local requirements and facilities at
the VRI Lahore and capable of expansion to 20 M doses per
annum;
(c)  supervising construction and the initial operations of the
production unit; and
(d) planning adequate field trials to assess the impact that
adequate FM1D vacc[nation produces on both incremental
agricultural output (through improved productivity of
draft cattle) and on livestock production per se.
5.       The essential features of the consultancy include:
(a) a review by the consultants of existing FMD production virus
typing and potency testing facilities, staff capability and
the adequacy of the new FMD vaccine building;
(b) a design study for the expanded production unit, coupled
with a suitably phased staff training plan that the con-
sultants would implement;
(c) assisting Government to prepare bid documents for purchase
under ICB of the equipment required;
(d)  the provision of staff to assist in assembling the new
production facilities and in initiating their successful
operation; and
(e)  assisting Government to plan to extend field use of the
vaccine produced and to assess the benefits arising fr4fn
adequate FMD vaccination in different classes of livestock.



Appendix 4
Page 3
6.        Proposals for this assistance would be invited from selected
consultants who would be asked to provide the following information:
(a) a brief description of the firm and an outline of recent
experience on projects of a similar nature;
(b) any comments or suggestions of the consultants on the
terms of reference, and a description of the manner in
which the consultants would plan to execute the work;
(c) the composition and the curriculum vitae of the team of
technical personnel, the training facilities which the
consultants would provide and the tasks which would be
assigned to each team member; and
(d) estimates of the total effort required for the consulting
and training services, supported by bar-chart diagrams
showing the man months for each expert and each trainee
trained abroad.
7.        Duration
2 man-years.
C. Animal Production Education Consultant
Background
8.        Training in animal husbandry at the undergraduate level in Pakistan
was started in the autumn of 1974. Earlier the only university training in
this discipline consisted of a limited number of lectures within the degree of
veterinary medicine. The present intake to the undergraduate animal husbandry
,:ourse is 50 students/year. The course extends over 6 years with the first
two years common to all agricultural and veterinary disciplines.
9.        The Agricultural University of Lyallpur has previously received
World Bank Group support for construction of buildings and provision of
equipment. It is basically well equipped and well staffed, hut the Depart-
ment of Animal Husbandry, being a new faculty, has not benefitted directly
from previous Bank Group support. The Department is under staffed, and inad-
equately equipped to undertake training specific to the livestock conditions
of the Punjab. Most of the text books in use refer to conditions in the
USA and staff have a strong orientation to USA type research and training.
10.       The interrelations between the livestock and the cropping sectors
are largely unexplored in faculty teaching and the interchange of ideas
between staff and the farming community needs strengthening.  This problem
of academic isolation is in no small degree due to lack of transport.



Appendix 4
Page 4
11.       For a comprehensive review of the animal husbandry training program
and preparation of detailed proposals for its reorganization, GOP would en-
gage the services of consultant.
Responsibilities
12.       The consultant would:
(a) review the objectives, length, context and balance of existing
and proposed livestock training courses;
(b) review the type and number of graduates and diplomats required
by Pakistan each year;.
(c) prepare proposals for changes in the training curricula and
training methods, and identify training material and physical
structures required.
13.       The consultant will work in close cooperation with the University,
and with the Department of Livestock Development and the Punjab Livestock
Board, the two major employers of animal husbandry graduates.
Qualifications
14.       The consultant would be an experienced teacher in livestock pro-
duction with at least 10 years post graduate experience, including expo-
sure to faculty organization in countries with agricultural conditions
similar to those of Pakistan. Perfect command of English would be a
prerequisite, knowledge of Urdu would be an advantage.
Duration
15.       The assignment would be for a period of two months.  Within three
months after taking up his post the consultant is expected to complete a
final comprehensive draft of his recommendations for discussion with Gov-
ernment.
D. Team Leader Livestock Research
Background
16.       GOPa proposes to strengthen its current livestock and fodder pro-
duction investigations, particularly in relation to small farm systems of
livestock and crop management that interact to the benefit of both crop and
livestock productivity. The key areas which are to be given priority in the
expanded research service include:



Appendix 4
Page 5
(a) the establishment and management of improved fodder crops
and legumes;
(b) the integration of livestock and fodder production into
smallholder cropping systems;
(c) stocking rate and livestock management trials on irrigated
crop farms for draft, beef and dairy cattle;
(d) supplementary feeding trials, particularly with urea, phos-
phorus and protein, for all classes of bovines;
(e) native breed and crossbreeding performance comparisons -
particularly with draft and dairy cattle.
17.       Under the project, research facilities at the central Livestock Re-
search Station at Bhahadurnagar are to be improved. This farm would provide
the baslc land and livestock facilities for the expanded research program.
Responsibilities
18.       Under the overall direction of the Project Policy Committee and the
Director of the Department of Livestock and Dairy Development of the Ministry
of Livestock, the team leader would be responsible for initiating and super-
vising all technical aspects of the livestock and fodder research program
during the two years of his tenure. Including, but not limiting the generality
thereof, he would have the following minimum specific duties, responsibilities,
and powers, which he might delegate in whole a part to assigned technical
staff:
(a) advising on major policy decisons with respect to
programs and the appointment staff;
(b) prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the research
staff and training then in all aspects of livestock research
planning and implementation;
(c) provide guidance to the Ministry on farm buildings, feeding
arrangements, milking practices, hygienic milk production,
the importation of livestock and semen, pasture and water
point establishment and management, response to fertilizers
and mineral supplements, calf rearing and the integration
of specific technical practices into overall farm manage-
ment plans;
(d) assessing production costs of alternative livestock pro-
duction practices and of formulating farm management
programs which maximize uitiization of farm resources
as well as farm profits.



Appendix 4
Page 6
Oualifications
19.       The successful applicant would have a good post-graduate degree
in a scientific discipline related to animnal production and at least five
years post graduate research experience in applied aspects of animal and
pastur; production. He would preferably have experience in troptcal pas-
ture establishment and background training in hioinetrics and economics,
with some experience of research problems in the countries of Asia.
Duration
20.       Approximately 2 man years.
E. Milk Plant Consulting Firm
Background
21.       The Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Developiaeat Boaru1 (PLB)
requires the services of a consulting firm for the expansion and improvement
of the Lahore Milk Plant. The Plant, established with the assistance of UNICEF
in 1967, has a capacity of 25,000 1/shift. Capacity expansion would be to
120,000 1I/per day with a product mix including pasteurized milk, butter, ice
cream, yoghurt and cheese. Raw milk would be collected through a system of
collection centers, largely but not exclusively, in the Shekhiipura District
of Punjab; sales of milk and milk products would be primarily on the Lahore
market.
Responsibilties
22.       Services required would involve the execution of complete design
and engineering studies, and thne preparation of specifications and tender
documents, both of which would be subject to Bank approval. Civil works
would be allocated on the basis of local competitive 11idding. A separate
equipment contract would be negotiated on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding following Bank guidelines.
23.       The engineering speciftcattons would allow flexibility for specialized
milk plant construction contractors to include in their tendler', dnstgns and
solutions proven effective in previous contracts in developing countries.
typically the specifications would include:
(a) power, steam, water and sewage treatment requirements;
(b) suggested plant layout;
(c) product mix;
(d) milk processing equipment;



Appendix 4
Page 7
(e) sanitary standards to be met;
(f) iaside finish of floors, walls and ceilings;
(g) ventilation, drainage, lighting and connections;
(h) pro-for,na contract and other terms of agreement; and
(i) preparation of two final sets of documents, one for the
civil works to be carried out, the other for the provi-
sion and installation of equipment and utilities on a
turn-key basis.
24.       The two sets of documents would be submitted to PLB and thie Bank
for approval prior to invitation to tender,  The coesultarits or firm of
consultants preparing the documents would be barred from tendering.
25.       The consultants vjild further assist PLB in the analysis of bids
received arid provide legal and technical advice on contractual arran1elents.
26.       Finally the consultants would assist in the supervision of plant
construction to assure the contractor's fulfillment of specifications, wit-
nessing start-up and trial runs.
Duration
27.       The total time required for this service is estimated at 24 months,
it  could not, however, be necessary for the consultants t() be La situ through-
out the 18 month construction period.
F. Milk Plant Manager
Background
28.       The Punjab Livestock Development 3oard (?LB) intends to expand,
renovate and operate a milk pla;ito La hAllore, the second largest city of
Pakistan, population around 2.2 M.  The existing milk plant in Lahore was
established in 1967 with the assistance of UNICEF. Its present capacity
is 25,000 L/shift, with an actual throughp.t of 10,000 1/day. half of this
based on recombined skim rrilk 2o)wder and butter oil imported under a WFP
scheme.
29.       The milk plant is to provide a central processing facill-ty For
milk to be produced in the Shekhupura district of I1he Province of Punjab,
as well as milk from other parts of the provtrice.  The plant would be es-
tablished as a subsidiary coitapany of PLB with the long term aim of trans-
ferring arp to 75% .,f *quity to producer-supplies organized in Village Live-
stock Associations (VLA's).  Milk will be collected by the VLX's once or



Appendix 4
Page 8
twice daily and shipped in 40 1 cans to the Lahore plant.  To avoid quality
deterioration the plant will establish six milk collection and cooling cen-
ters in the district. Transport of milk would initially be undertaken by
plant-owned trucks, with the anticipated expansion of supplies, hired trans-
port will increasingly be used. The market for milk and milk products from
the plant will be primarily, but not exclusively, Lahore city. DLstribu--
tion would be through milk retailers and plant-owned distribution booths.
30.       The plant will be designed, built and equipped following interna-
tional standards. The plant will be equipped for production of pasteurized
milk, butter, ice cream, yoghurt and cheese, the latter to absorb seasonal
milk surpluses. It would be designed by experienced, international consult-
ants; renovation and building expansion would be executed with a separate
turnkey contract for equipment and installation.
31.       To assist in the initial start up of the milk plant and in the
overall organization of milk and milk products marketing, the PLB is looking
for a suitably qualified Plant Manager.
Responsibilities of Plant Mlanager
32.       Under the overall direction of the Director, Punjab Livestock Board,
the Plant Manager would be responsible for the entire organization of milk
collection, processing and marketing. This would include the organization
and supervision of milk collection along clearly defined collection routes.
Supervision of the six milk collection and cooling centers, operation of the
milk plant and marketing of milk and milk products. In particular the plant
manager would also have to suggest to PLB appropriate plans for raw milk ut-
ilization, reflecting seasonal supplies and the possible continuation of WFP
skim milk powder and butter oil shipments. The manager would be responsible
for introducing and maintaining an effective cost accounting system.
33.       The milk plant, under the guidance of PLB, would have major res3pon-
sibility for assisting VLA's in primary milk collection, milk testing and
storage. The manager would, therefore be responsible for the supervision of
a small team of VLA advisors. He would also cooperate with PLB in supplying,
VLA's with necessary basic inputs such as semen for AI, cattle feed, seeds etc
using milk collection vehicles.  The plant manager will train a local counter-
part to take over responsLhilities for plant management within 20 months of
the start of his assignment.
34.       Qualifications.  University graduate in Dairy Science, Business Ad-
ministration, Production Management, Chemical or Industrial engineering, or
equivalent training, supervisory or managerial capacity. lie should be well
acquainted withi raw milk procurement, planning of product mix, milk marketing
and related operations. He should also have experience in handling and train-
Lng personnel and be familiar with costing procedures. Prior experience in
a developing country and ability to speak Urdu would be advantageous.



Appendix 4
Page 9
35.       Duration
Contract would be for 2 years~
G. Slaughterhouse Consulting Firm
Background
36.       The Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Baord1 (?'LB) re-
quires the services of a consulting firu for the design and construction of
a new 400 head/day large animal slaughterhouse to be established in Lahore.
The plant wnald provide slaughter facilities for the existing, private 5uIt-
cher trade as well as slaughter and process carcasses for the account of
PLB.
Responsibilities
37.       Services required would involve the executioti of comiplete design aaI
enigineering studies and preparation of specifications anI tel dar locrienits,
1oth oL these would be subject to Bank approval.  Plant construi(tLimn would be
given out for international competition bidding following Bank rules on the
basis of two separate tenders.
(i) Civil works for the slaughterhouse including access roads,
outbuildings, cattle yards; and
(ii) equipment and utilities on a turn-key basis.
38.       The engineering specifications would allow flexibility for specia1-
ized slaughterhouse contractors to include in their tenders designs and solu-
tions, proven effective in previous contracts in developing countries. Typ-
ically the specifications would include:
(a) site choice and preparation;
(b)  power, steam, water and sewage treatment req':icements;
(c)  cattle pens and holding facilities;
(d)  suggested plant layout;
(e)  slaughtering equipment;
(f!  'ydroduct utilization facilities;
(g)  sanitary standards to be nuet;



Appendix 4
Page 10
(h) civil construction size and type of buildings, including
freezirig all chlilling rooms;
(i)  inside finish of floors, walls and cell bilJS;
*j) ventilation, drainage, lighting and connectliolls;
(k)  pro-forma contract and other terms of agreement;
(1) preparation of two final sets of documents, one for
the civil works to be carried out, the other for the
provision and installation of equipment and utili-
ties on a turn-key basis.
39.       The two sets of documents would be submitted to PLB and the Bank
for approval prior to invitation to tender.  The consultants or firlm of
consultants preparing the documents would be barred from teaderin0g.
40.       The consultants would further assist PLB in the analysis of bids
received and provide legal and technical advice on contractuiral arrangements.
41.       Finally the consultants would assist in the supervision of plant
construction to assure the contractors' fulfillment of specifications, -wit-
nessing start-up and trial rans.
Duration
42.       The total time required for this service is estimated at- 30 inotitls, it
would not, however, be necessary for consultants to be in situ throughout the
24 month construction period.
H. Slaughterhouse Plant Manager
Background
43.       The Punjab Livestock DevelopaeTi 'loard (PLB) intends to establish
and operate a new slaughterhouse in Lahore, tlhe second largest city of
Pakistan, population around 2.2Ut. Present slaughter facilities in Lahore
are not fit to be rerovatel to accommodate nolerar line slaughtering.
44.       The new slaughterhouse is to pro-vide Eacilities for the slaughter
of buffaloes and cattle, with a later possible eKpiasion to handle small
animals. Slaughter, following '4usliq rites, would be carried out by private
slaughter teams working on account of individual retail butchers -Wh, mitrcli,se
slaughter animals and receive carcass and major ofFals for later sale. In
addition, the slaughterhouse would operate for PLB's own meat marketing; this
meat would be sold frozen and prepacked as cuts and as minced beef rhJoirgh



Appendix 4
Page 11
contract retail outlets. The capacity of the plant would be 400 head/day in
a single eight hour shift. This would suffice to handle present local meat
ciemand of butchers, including an allowance of 30% for peak requirements, plus
around 50 head/day for PLB.
L5.       The slaughterhouse would be designed, built and equipped following
international standards, and must provide for possible-fteat exports.  The
plant would be equipped for by-product utilization. It would be designed by
experienced, international consultants and constructed under a civil works
contract for the building and a turn-key contract for equipment and instal-
lation.
t6.       To assist in the initial start up of the slaughterhouse and in the
cverall organization of livestock and meat marketing, the PLB is looking for
a suitably qualified Plant 'Manager, and for an Operations Manager.
Responsibilities of Plant Manager
47.       Under the overall direction of the Director, Punjab Livestock Board,
the Plant Manager would be responsible for the entire meat operation.  This
would include the slaughtering for the butcher's account and processing of
the corresponding by-products, as well as the entire chain of the PLB meat op-
eration: cattle procurement, processing and marketing of its meat and by-pro-
ducts.  He would be responsible for maintaining an effective cost-accounting
system and an agile livestock buying and marketing organization. He should
train a local counterpart to take over responsibility for plant management
wiithin 20 months of the start of his assignment.
48.       Qualifications
University graduate in Business Administration, Production Manage-
mient, Chemical or Industrial Engineering or equivalent training with at least
10 years experience in meat packing plant operations, mostly in supervisory
or managerial capacity. He should be well aquainted with raw milk procurement,
planning of product mix, milk marketing and related operations, and by-pro-
cucts processing. He should also have experience in handling and training
personnel and be familiar with production planning and meat and livestock
costing procedures. He should be versed in meat marketing techniques and
international sanitary requirments affecting meat plants and meat trade.
IPrior experience in a developing country and ability to speak Urdu would be
advantageous.
L9.       Duration
Contract would be for 2 years.



Appendix 4
Page 12
I. Slaughterhouse Operations Manager
50.       Responsibilties
The operations manager would report to the plant manager and be re-
sponsible for thg,full range of slaughterhouse operations excluding procure-
ment of livestock and marketing of meats. His duties would include coordina-
tion with butchers, livestock handling, slaughtering and related operations,
variety meats and by-products processing, loading dock operations and plant
engineering. He would be responsible for processing the butcher and PLB vol-
ume, at budgeted costs at normal yields and maintaining good product quality
and operating practices within sanitary requirements. He should train a local
counterpart to take over the responsibility within 30 months of the start of
his assignment.
51.       Qualifications:  University graduate in Production Engineering or
Food Technology or equivalent training with at least 10 years experience in
meat packing plant operations mostly in supervisory or managerial capacity.
He should be well aquainted with livestock handling, slaughtering and related
operations, refrigeration and its application to meat, byproducts rendering
and hide handling. He should be well versed in meat plant processing yields
and quality control techniques. He should also have experience in handling
and training personnel and be familiar with production planning techniques,
plant maintenance, housekeeping and safety. He should be versecl in meat in-
spection techniques and international sanitary standards. Prior experience
in a developing country and ability to speak Urdu would be advantageous.
52.       Duration
Contract would be for 2 years.



ADpendix5
rage I 
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
OUTLINE OF QUARTERLY PROGRESS REPORT
I. GENERAL
1.01      This outline is a guide and check list for progress reports on the
Livestock Development Project; it provides essential headings, of information
required and proforma tables. Progress reports should not necessarily be
restricted to the items listed. All major problems encountered during project
execution, and the actual or proposed solutions, should also be mentioned.
1.02      Progress reports are to be submitted every quarter, together with
an annual summary at the end of the year. Reports should reach Washington
within 60 days for the close of the reporting period. The annual report
should be accompanied by:
1.   Copies of Budgets and Financial Estimates.
2.   Copies of Audited Project Accounts for Unions
and the Corporation.
3.   Copies of Annual Progress Reports of research
work and Project Studies prepared by the consultants.
1.03      Reports should be addressed to:
Division Chief, General Agriculture Division
Projects Department, South Asia Region
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
II. BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
Project Description and Objectives
2.01      The project is to establish and operate 500 VLAs, strengthen
research, extension, vaccine production facilities, improve annual produc-
tion training, expand milk processing to 100,000 1/day, construct a 400
head/day export quality slaughterhouse, improve some 10,000 acres of PLB
farms and provide land use maps of about 5 million acres in Central Punjab.



Appendix 5
Page 2
tisic Project Data
2.02      Date of Loan Agreement         ------------
Date of Loan Effectiveness
Closing Date          _          _--------
Total Project Cost at Appraisal                       million
Project Funds Expended to end of Quarter
Amount of Bank Loan US$                               million
Amount of Bank Loan Claimed to end of Quarter
Disbursement Claim as % of Bank Loan ____----_-
Exchange Rate at Appraisal US% 1= Rs 9.9
Current Exchange Rate        ----------
Summary of Progress
2.03      Briefly summarize the progress -made ducring the quarter in respect
to each project component.
2.04      Highlight the major problems encountered in project imaplementation,
together with the action proposed to overcome these problems. Action taken
since last Bank supervision should be noted, new developments commented on, and
the outlook and forecast for the next quarter presented.
III. PROJECT PROGRESS
3.01      VLA Formation:  Tabulate (Table 1) the number of VLAs formed in
the quarter with the basic data on the land, population and livestock
resources in each VLA, the initial VLA membership and the initial milk
deliveries of the VLA.
3.02      Support Services:  Tabulat'o (Table 2) the research, extension
vaccine production and A.I. programmes being undertaken under the project
indicating the components of each, budget figures, and achLe'erit ,1alary.
3.03      L.ivestock Training.  Tabulate (Table 3) details of the quarterly
expenditure under the three head ngs of consultants services, fellowships
and equipnielt p,ircliases.  Comment -n carr7icila changes, training objectives
and quality of the teaching provided.
3.04      Milk & Meat Processing:  Summarize in a network analysis (Tables 4
and 5) the status of design studies, bidding and proci1relear-, cri3trtltLoli
of civil works, equipment installation, plant start-up, tnd -ot'ili al;Ct
tlroagliput,> St.lf employment figures, purchase price of raw matter.,l.-  il
sale price of main products.
3.05      PLB Farms:  Tabulate (Table 6) the improvements proposed for each
PL3 farm, the timetable for implementation and progress achieved. Summarize
initial projected, and achievel cro) yields.  Comment on VLA formation on
PLB farms.



Appendix 5
Page 3
3.06      Land Use Maps:  Summarize progress in finalizing and implementing
the contract with Survey of Pakistan.
IV. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
4.01      For each component and the Project as a whole, discuss the problems
encountered in implementing project activities, using as base data the report
forms of Route Extension Workers and the VLA spearhead teams. Summarize the
financial situation of PLB (Table 7) for the quarter and include information on
equity stucture, loans outstanding, reserves, profit (loss) and grants received.
Project Coordinating Committee
4.02      Indicate composition of committee and its staff, summarize the
decisions and actions of the committee and append to the quarterly report
the minutes if all committee meetings (Table 8).
Project Expenditures & Disbursements
4.03      Detail project expenditure under each project component and under
each credit category, and note the main reasons for any significant differ-
ences between actual expenditures and those listed in the credit documenta-
tion (Table 9).
Marketing
4.04      Briefly describe market trends and prices for milk, meat, cattle
feed, green fodder, and major agricultural crops. Comment on availability
of dairy animals and draft animals and livestock prices.
Farm Management
4.05      Outline any important trends that are occurring in farm management
policies and practices as a result of market trends, technological change and
improvement in water availability. Discuss any apparent impact of the project
on farm and village income and on the manner this incremental income is being
spent.
Credit
4.06      Assess demand for credit within the VLAs, the overall loans made
to VLAs by the banking system and the recovery performacne on these loans.
Other Matters
4.07



Appendix 5
Page 4
V. ACTIONS TAKEN AND NEEDED
Action Taken
5.01      Discuss the usefullness and impact of specific measures taken to
resolve problems recognized in the previous report.
Action Proposed
5.02      Comment on planned activity to expand project action and on any
decisions which are required to overcome problems in achieving the objectives
of the project.



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 1     -       VLA Formation
In Area Covered       Total Area of Farms
VLA Name and Number                       by VLA          of Initial VLA Members
a/ Area Cultivated
b/ Average Crop Yields
Wheat
Rice
Maize
Cotton
c/ No. of Families
in VLA area
d/ No. of Cattle Cows
in VLA area
e/ No. of Buffalo Cows
in VLA area
f/ Milk Produced and
Milk Sold/day
g/ No. of Bullock Pairs
in VLA area
h/ Land Cultivated/
No. of Bullock Pairs
i/ Cattle and Buffalo less
than 3 yrs. old sold
per year
j/ Average weight of i/animals
sold:
(1) Cattle
(2) Buffalo



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 2     -       Support Services
RESEARCH
Area under Research Direction
Total Cattle and Buffalo in Research Programs
Number of Professional Research Staff
Total Staff on Research Budget
Research Budget for Quarter
Names of Major Research Projects
Achievements Summary
EXTENSION
Number of VLA's under Extension
Number of REW's Employed
Number of E.O.'s Employed
Equipment Purchased (Main Items and Cost)
Extension Budget for Quartrer
Main Topics of Extension and
Main Problems Encountered
Achievement Summary
FMD VACCINE PRODUCTION
Budget Allocation for Quarter
Funds Spent
FMD Doses Produced
Equipment Purchased
Consultant Expenditures



Table 2 - continued
FMD VACCINE PRODUCTION (continued)
Training Expenditures
Main Problems Encountered
Achievement Summary
Al Program
Al doses used by Project
Dairy Bulls
Draft Bulls
Buffalo
Al Doses Produced in Total
Percentage in Frozen Ampoules and
Average Cost/Dose
Percentage as Fresh Semen and
Average Cost/Dose
Percentage as Bulk Frozen and
Average Cost/Dose
Budget for Quarter
Consultant Expenditure
Training Expenditure
Main Problems Encountered
Achievement Summary



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 3     -       Livestock Training
Consultant Services
Name of Consultant             Period of Service              Expenditure
Fellowships
Name of Fellow                 Period of Service              Expenditure
Equipment Purchase
Item             Order Date               Delivery Date              Cost
Achievement Summary (including comments on curriculum, training objectives
and quality of teaching)



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 4     -       Milk Plant
Network Analysis
Indicate by reference to a network chart progress in the construction and
equipping of the new plant.
Budget Allocation for Quarter
Revenue for Quarter
Capital Expenditure for Quarter
Recurrent Expenditure for Quarter
Staff on Payroll
Consultant Expenditure
Equipment Expenditure
Average Purchase Price of Milk, and Quantity Purchased.
Average Sale Price of Milk, and Quantity Purchased.



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 5     -       Meat Plant
Network Analysis
Indicate by reference to a network chart progress in the construction and
equipping of the new plant.
Budget Allocation for Quarter
Revenue for Quarter
Capital Expenditure for Quarter
Recurrent Expenditure for Quarter
Staff on Payroll
Consultant Expenditure
Equipment Expenditure
Average Purchase Price of Aged Animals
Average Purchase Price of Quality Animals
Average Sale Price of Carcass Meat with Bone -
Ordinary Cuts              % of Sales
Quality Cuts               % of Sales



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 6     -       PLB Forms
Farm Name, Land Area, Number of Tenants
Summary of Development Plan
Proposed Investment Expenditures under Project listed by
Main Category and Actual Expenditure for Quarter listed
by Main Category
Capital Budget Allocation for Quarter
Expenditure for Quarter
Average Yield of Main Crops
Total Farm Income for Quarter
Total Farm Expenses for Quarter
Main Problems Encountered
Achievement Summary



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 7     -   Land Use Mapping
Summarize
Contacts with Survey of Pakistan
Land are to be mapped (Cited Reference and Image Reference)
Season of Imagery
Topo Sheets made Available
Images Ordered
Computer Processing
Ground Truthing
Computer Reprocessing
Overlay of cultural Features
Printing of Maps
Budget Allocation for Quarter
Actual Expenditure for Quarter
Main Problems encountered
Achievement Summary



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 8     -       PLB Financial Summary
Managing Director
Directors
Secretary
Bankers
Auditors
Statement of Chairman
Profit or Loss Account           Balance Sheet as at end
for Quarter                        of Quarter
Notes on Accounts, including a Summary of Source of Funds, application of
funds and movement in net liquid assets.



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 9     -       Project Coordinating Committee
Composition of Committee
Name          Position on Committee             Position Elsewhere
Achievement Summary
Number of Committee Meetings



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 10    -       Summary of Project Expenditures
Project Category    Bank Funds at   Total Funds    Total Funds    % of Total
Appraisal       Spent on          Spent        Claimed
Quarter                     From the Bank
l(a)
l(b)
1(c)
l(d)



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 11    -       Market Summary
Average Price at           Price Trend
Farm Gate for            (up - down -
Quarter                Constant)
Milk (3% Fat)
Quality Meat
Average Meat
Cattle Feed (60 TDN/Ton)
Green Fodder
Wheat
Paddy
Maize
Seed Cotton
Milking Cows
Milking Buffalo
Draft Bullocks/pair
Tractor hire
(Ploughing/ac.)
Market Comment, Farm Management Trends and Credit Situation



LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quarterly Progress Report
Table 12    -       Overall Summary
Specific Achievements of Quarter - Summarize by project components
Key Problems Outstanding - Summarize by project components
Action Proposed - Summarize by project components
The overall assessment of the Project



__________'____________________________                                                                                                                                IBRO  12201R1
~~~~~~~~ \                  T H R N N                        j D A ND W   6   HN(0>   -         - I D    XA '
I~~~~~~~~ /N '?Xt4   t!e                                                                            r-><v 
_4'. , ~ ~ -.~~ -4                            U                      'j Irh Ej  /   L                    D        o-
'S  1 RUHANUT pg                                                                  ASH~~~~AKI-FA
IN  -.      -~~~~~~~  -   n'-UNAB-ROVNC
NODAl                                                                                                                M            LAND ,     AN,DCANAU  Z6CM               N
.j =UND -=                                                                                                                         1-      T -
-,                                         5ZAZ DUNN SHUN        70 740                                                                  -T-- 77
UZZ0~~~~AAU.NS~~~0&~~~  ~ 4)  (~~~<                  -     V           <'~-0.ITE






Annex 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Annexes Prepared by Appraisal Mission
Table of Contents
1.   THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR AND THE AGRICULTURAL SETTING
-    a review of the livestock situation in Pakistan
2.   OPTIMAL OUTPUT OF AN IRRIGATED FARM IN THE PUNJAB
-    a linear programming analysis of the optimal use
of small farm resources for crop and livestock
production
3.   BEEF EXPORTS AND THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET
-    a critical review of the potential of beef exports
from Pakistan
4.   BEEF PRODUCTION AND FATTENING
-    the technical and financial case for increasing beef
production
5.   MEAT PROCESSING AND MARKETING
-    an outline of the present market operations of the
meat market and a description of the new abattoir
facility proposed under the project
6.   FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
-    the case for producing FID vaccine
7.   VILLAGE LIVESTOCK ASSOCIATIONS
-    the functions, organization, services and by-laws of
the VLA's



Annex 1
Page 2
8.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE VLA's
-    a discussion of the training needs of staff for
organizing, operating and servicing the VLA's
and of the specific training proposal
9.   AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
-    an outline of the organization and operation of the
VLA extension program
10. MILK PROCESSING AND MARKETING
-    an outline of the present operations of the milk market
and a description of the expanded milk processing facility
proposed under the project
11. UNIVERSITY TRAINING AND RESEARCH IN LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
-    an outline of the present situation and the nature
of the improvements needed
12. WASTELAND DEVELOPMENT
-    a note on the use of Diplachne fusca to improve
Saline land
13. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN PAKISTAN
-    a brief review of current Bank lending to agriculture
14.  A STLPIARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE lJNDER  HFiE PROJECT



Annex 2
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK PROJECT
OTHER WORKING PAPERS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Draft Report
"Pakistan Punjab Beef and Mfilk Development Project"
prepared for the Government of Pakistan by Punjab
Livestock Dairy and Poultry Development Board assisted
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperation Program - 3 volumes
B.   Draft Report of the Pakistan Livestock Sector Survey
(in 4 volumes) by FAO/IBRD World Bank Cooperation
Program



