CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1366 T-PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Punjab Livestock Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
and
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK, DAIRY
AND POULTRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated February 18, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
THE PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, aacting by its Governor, (hereinafter called
Punjab) and the PUNJAB LIVESTOCK, DAIRY AND POULTRY DEVELOPMENT
BOARD established by the Punjab Act No. III of 1974 (hereinafter
referred to as PLB).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Bank
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab and PLB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and Punjab, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to Punjab on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Punjab and PLB, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTI'LE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, linless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿0)                                  -3
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Prolect
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab shall carry out Part E of the Proj-
ect, and shal1 cause its Department of Livestock Development to
implement Parts B and C thereof, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial , agri -
cultural and livestock practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) PLT3 shall carry out Part A of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, fin-ncial., agricultural and livestock practices , and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist PLB in carrying out
Parts A.2, A.3 and A.h of the Project, Punjab shall relend to PLU
the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Categories (1) (b), (2)
(b), (2) (c) and (2) (d) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and
that part of Category (4) thereof allocated for consultants to be
employed by PIB, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
in+o between Punjab and PLB, under terms and conditions mutually
satisfactory to the Bank and Punjab.


﻿-'4 -                                 0
(b) In order to assist PLB in carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project, Punjab shall (i) make the proceeds of the Loan allocated
under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement available to PLB as a budgetary allocation; (ii) second
to PLB such extension staff from its Department of Livestock
Development as shall be appropriate for that purpose; and (iii)
provide the incremental budget required for PLB to undertake its
functions under the Project.
(c) In order to assist its Department of Livestock Develop-
ment in implementing Parts B and C of the Project, Punjab shall
make the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Categories (1) (c)
(1) (d), (2) (e) and (2) (f) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement,
available to its Department of Livestock Development as a budgetary
allocation.
(d) In order to assist the Soil Survey of Pakistan in imple-
menting Part D of the Project, Punjab shall make the proceeds of
the Loan allocated under Category (3) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, available to the Soil Survey of Pakistan.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist Punjab in carrying out
Parts B and C of the Project, Punjab shall employ, not later than
six months after the date of this Agreement, consultants as de-
scribed in Parts A.3, A.h, A.5 and A.6 of Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be mutually satisfactory to the Bank and Punjab.


﻿-5-
(b) In order to assist PLB in carrying out Part A of the
Project, PLB shall employ, not later than six months after the
date of this Agreement, consultants as described in Parts A.1
and A.2 of Schedule 2 to.this Agreement, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be mu-
tually satisfactory to the Bank and Punjab.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab and PLB undertake to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
them against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by Punjab and PLB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Punjab shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to them to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) Punjab and PLB shall furnish to the Bank
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) Punjab and PLB: (I.) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financr-d out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to them, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records ard documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made
available to them and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.07. (a) Punjab and PLB shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of their obligations under this Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Pun,ab and PLB shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with. the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Punjab and PLB of their obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Punjab shall establish and maintain a Project
Coordinating Committee with powers, functions and staffing accep-
table to the Bank, responsible for the coordination among the
agencies in charge of the implementation, monitoring and follow-up
of the Project, and is to include representatives of such agencies.


﻿* --
Section 2.09. Punjab and PLB shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to establish and maintain VLAs and the Milk
Corporation under statutes and regulations mutually satisfactory
to the Bank and Punjab.
Section 2.10. (a) Punjab and PLB shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Punjab shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to transfer land and other facilities required for Part B.3 of
the Project to its Department of Livestock Development.
Section 2.11. Punjab shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to terminate the operations of the Lahore municipal cattle
and buffalo slaughterhouses not later than three months after the
date on which the abattoir and meat-processing plant under Part A.3
is completed, or such other date as the Bank and Punjab shall
mutually agree.
Section 2.12. Punjab shall cause its Department of Livestock
Development, within six months after the consultant referred to
in Part A.5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been appointed,
to prepare a five-year program in livestock research acceptable
to the Bank and Punjab.


﻿Section 2.13. PLB shall, within twelve months of the date of
this Agreement, furnish to the Bank a specific program for the
provision of extension services to the VLAs.
Section 2.14. (a) Punjab shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Punjab shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assign-
ing or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(b) PLB shall duly perform all its obligations under the
subsidiary loan agreement referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PLB shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, assigning or waiving such subsidiary loan agreement or
any provision thereof.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PLB
Section 3.01. PUB shall: (i) at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position and carry on its operation all in
accordance with sound business, financial, agricultural and live-
stock practices and under the supervision of experienced and com-
petent management assisted by experienced and competent staff in
adequate number; and (ii) take all 9teps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franobises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of their business or
in th- carrying out of the Project.
S ction 3.02. PLB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the  ank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PLB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained anpropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PLB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furrish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such fiscal year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PLB and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) PLB shall offer to sell its shares of the
Milk Corporation, at par value, to the VLAs, not later than July 1,
1982.
(b) Such offers shall be made each year thereafter until the
VLAs own at least 50% of the shares of the Milk Corporation.


﻿0                           -11 -
Section 4.04. Punjab shall ensure that funds, required for the
effective operation of the VLAs, Milk Corporation and the abattoir
and meat-processing plant referred to in Part A.3 of the Project,
shall be made available. For that purpose Punjab shall make avail-
able:
(a) to each VLA funds to cover their training costs on a
grant basis;
(b) to each VLA, the Milk Corporation and the abattoir and
meat-processing plant referred to in Part A.3 of the Project, funds
for their start-up costs on a loan basis; and
(c) adequate equity capital and local loan funds to estab-
lish the Milk Corporation and aforesaid abattoir and meat-processing
plant.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, Punjab and PLB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of t,e following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Uhis
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Punjab and PLB of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the Drovisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
susnension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VT
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be Piven or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Rank:
Tnternational hank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wul)
For Punjab:
Secretary to the Government of
Punjab Livestock, Fisheries
and Dairy Development Department
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
LIVESEC
Lahore


﻿- 14 -
For PLB:
Managing Director
Punjab Livestock, Dairy and Poultry
Development Board
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
PROTEINS
Lahore
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Punjab or PLB may be taken or executed by
the Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Livestock, Fisheries and
Dairy Development Department, or the Managing Director of the Punjab
Livestock, Dairy and Poultry Development Board, respectively, or
such other person or persons as they shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. Punjab and PLB shall furnish to the Bank suf-
ficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on their behalf take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by Punjab and PLB pursuant to any of the provi-
sions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Manfred G. Blobel
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
PUNJAB LIVESTOCK, DAIRY AND
POULTRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
By Is! A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Biddina
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts fo- tho pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter calle-1 the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Civil works, other than for the abattoir and meat-processing
plant under Part A.3 of the Projert and those to be cqrried out
under force account as specified in accordance with the provisions
of (b) hereunder, shall be carried out in accordance with the Bor-
rower's competitive bidding procedures, following domestic advertis-
ing, acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Civil works under Parts A.1 (b), A.2, A.h, B and C of
the Project may be carried out by force account.
2.   Equipment and materials with unit prices not exceeding the
equivalent of $10,000 each and equipment and materials grouped in
contracts not exceeding the eoivalent of $50,000 each, shall be
purchased in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures, provided that the aggregate expenditure -Por items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.


﻿S                           -17 -
C.   Evaluation and Com-narison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domes tic Manufact urers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except thnse to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to Punjab of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of Punjab and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods


﻿- 18 -                                    0
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for


﻿-19 -
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Punjab shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and t'e snecifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Punjab shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Parts A.1
and A. 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as


﻿-20-
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Punjab and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Punjab shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Punjab and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants' Services and Overseas Fellowships
A.   Consultants' Services
1.   About 7 man-years of consultants' services for the
design and management of the abattoir and meat-processing
plant under Part A.3 of the Project, to be employed by PLB.
2.   About 5 man-years of consultants' services for the
desk - and management of the milk plant under Part A.4 of the
Project, to be employed by PLB for the Milk Corporation.
3.   About 2 man-years of consultants' services for the
production of foot-and-mouth disease vaccine under Part B.1
of the Project, to be employed by Punjab.
4.   About 0.5 man-years of consultants' services for the
use of bulk frozen semen under Part B.2 of the Project, to be
employed by Punjab.
5.   About 2 man-years of consultants' services for the
programming of research in livestock production under Part
B.3 of the Project, to be employed by Punjab.
6.   About 3 man-years of consultants' services for live-
stock education under Part C of the Project, to be employed
by Punjab.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Overseas Fellowships
1.   About 6 man-years of overseas fellowships for Part A.3
of the Project.
2.   About 2 man-years of overseas fellowshins for Part B.1
of the Project.
3.   About 0.5 man-years of overseas fellowships for Part
B.2 of the Project.
4.   About 0.5 man-years of overseas fr -Lowships for Part
B.3 of the Project.
5.   About 15 man-years of overseas fellowships for Part C
of the Project.


