RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                    Report No.  P-652
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TAIWAN POWER COMPANY
CHINA
November 13, 1968



REPORT AND RECOI@flENDATIION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TIE TArIw.iA POWER COITPANY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a p'oposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $50 million to the
Taiwan Power Company.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of the Republic of China and the Taiwan Power
Company (Taipower) have asked the Bank for a loan of $50 million to
finance the foreign exchange costs of the Tachien hydro-electric scheme
on the upper reaches of the Tachia River in Central Taiwian and asso-
ciated transmission facilities. The Borrower would be Taipower, a
stock corporation, owned almost wholly by the National and Provincial
Governments, under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
3.        Negotiations were conducted in Wlashington between August 26
and September 6. Representing the Government of the Republic of China
was Minister Martin Wong of the Embassy; representing the Taiwan Power
Company were Mr. L.K. Chen, President; Mr. David Chu, Vice President;
and Mr. Stephen Chen, Director, Accounting Department.
4.        The Bank has made seven loans to the Republic of China and
the proposed loan would bring the total to $147.8 million, net of can-
cellations. IDA has made four development credits totalling $13.1
million, net of cancellations. The following is a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA credits made in the Republic of China as of
October 31, 1968:



Amount net of cancellations
Loan or                                                      (US$ million)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower         Purpose        Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
6       1961     China     Harbor dredging                 2.2
7       1961     China     Ground water                   2.0
9       1961     China     'Jater supply                  4.0
17       1961     China     China Development
Corporation                  4.9
356       1963     China     Deep-sea fishing        7.6
397       1964     CDC       Industrial Development
Corporation         15.0                 1.2
409       1965     China     Railways              17.8                 1.6
498       1967     China     Deep-sea fishing       7.9                 7.9
506       1967     DGT       Communications         17.0               17.0
508       1967     CDC       Industrial Development
Corporation         15.0               13.2
524       1968     China     Railways               17.5               17.5
Total net of cancellations                       97.8    13.1
of which has been repaid to the
Bank and others                                2.5
Total now outstanding                            95.3
Amount sold                  7.6
of which has been repaid   1.1          6.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   38,3    13.1
Total undisbursed                                58.4     0         58.4
5.        The construction of all the projects financed by IDA has been
satisfactorily completed. Disbursements of Bank loans are progressing
according to schedule.
6.        An appraisal mission for a third railway project is planned
for late November and a proposed loan is expected to be presented to
the Executive Directors later this fiscal year.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                 Taiwan Power Company.
Guarantor:                Republic of China.
Amount:                   Ths equivalent in various currencies
of $50 million.



-3 -
Purpose:                 To finance the foreign exchange costs
of the Tachien hydro-electric devel-
opment and associated transmission
facilities.
Amortization:            In twenty-five years including a
six year grace period, through 19
semi-annual installments beginning
October 15, 1974 and ending
October 15, 1993.
Interest Rate:           6½ percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Taiwan Power Company, Appraisal of the
Tachien Hydro-Electric Developmnent - China" (No. TO-677a) on the proposed
project is attached.
9.        The rapid growth of the economy of Taiwan is based largely on
industrial development, financed by private domestic savings and foreign
funds. These sources are expected to sustain the pace of industrial
growth in the future. In these circumstances the Bank's strategy is to
support the growth of the economy in two ways: by financing industrial
projects through loans to the China Development Corporation and by pro-
viding funds for improving power and transportation and other infra-
structure facilities such as education. Investment in these sectors
has been la,ging and unless it is increased it could seriously retard
the growth of industry and, therefore, of the economy. The proposed
loan is a significant element in this strategy.
10.       The high proportion of total electricity supply utilized
by commerce and industry, combined with the rapid expansion of industrial
production at 14 percent per annum, have brought about a continually
increasing demand for electricity, which is expected to continue. A con-
servative estimate of the growth of peak demand and energy sales is about
10L2 percent per annum during the next five years and about 9 percent during
the following five years.
11.       The Borrower, the Taiwan Power Company, will invest US$95 million
per annum over the next eight years to increase its capacity to supply
electric power. The proposed project is an essential part of this program
and, including benefits accruing to downstream plants, will allow Taipower
to produce an additional 600 MW of dependable peaking capacity which is
likely to be wholly utilized by the end of the 1970's.



12.       The Tachien dam will be located on the 124 km-long Tachia
River, about 87 km from its mouth. The project proposed for Bank
financing would cost $89.2 million and would include a dam and reser-
voir in the Tachien Gorge; an underground power house with three 78
MW hydraulic turbine generator units; an outdoor switching station;
tranmission facilities; and assistance of consultants. All items
to be financed by the proposed Bank loan, except consultant services,
would be subject to international competitive bidding. The project is
expected to be completed by April 1974.
13.       The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would cover the
foreign exchange cost of the project. A comparison between the benefits
attributable to the project and the investment to be made in it indicates
that the rate of return would be about 1l-12 percent, where output is
valued at prevailing tariffs. Any savings in the cost of carrying out
the project could be used, with the approval of the Bank, to finance
additional generating units in existing downstream plants which are
part of the Tachia River development scheme, thus making full use of
the storage capacity of the Tachien reservoir.
14.       Taipower's financial situation has been substantially sound,
but characterized by inadequate self-financing, a consequence of res-
trictive rate of return regulations.  Taipower has agreed to seek tariff
adjustments which would gradually raise the rate of return from about 8
percent in 1967 to 10 percent by 1971, to be maintained thereafter as a
minimum. The Government has in turn agreed that, as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan, the present restrict ions on Taipower's
earnings will be modified so as to permit the attainment of these objectives.
It is expected that the company will be able to get NT$1.4 billion from the
Bank of Taiwan and NT$2 billion from the Government, on reasonable terms, to
meet its local currency requirements.
15.       Taipower is qualified to carry out this project and to operate
the new facilities effectively. It provides the only public electric
supply in Taiwan and operates throughout the island. Almost all members
of the top management are career employees and are competent and experienced
in their respective fields. Suitable consulting engineering arrangements
exist to ensure that the necessary specialized skills will be available in
connection with the major construction programs.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Taiwan Power
Company, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Republic
of China and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



17.       The loan documents follow the general pattern of other agree-
ments used for power projects. In addition, provisicns are made in the
draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements to require the Borrower, and in the
case of the Guarantor to cause the Bank of Communications, not to effect
the lien given by the Borrower to the Bank of Communications under the
CIECD loan agreements.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       An economic report, "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of the Republic of China" (AS-142a), dated September 11, 1968, in two
volumes, was circulated to the Executive Directors on September 17, 1968.
The economy of China has continued to grow vigorously; in 1967 GNP in real
terms increased by 8.9 percent. This, combined with a further decline in
the population growth rate, led to an increase of GNP per capita by 6.3
percent to $265. The prospects for further rapid growth are favorable.
However, the growth process itself has created some imbalances in the
economy. Manufacturing industry has ran ahead of investment in infra-
structure, and its future growth is threatened by shortages in power,
transport and other public utilities. The Chinese Government is fully
aware of these problems, and the development strategy during the Fifth
Four-Year Plan (1969-72) is devoted to correcting this imbalance. The
Government recognizes that the large infrastructural investments will
require a substantial increase of public savings, which have been low
and have increased only slowly in recent years. The Government is pre-
paring a tax reform and improving collection methods to increase tax
revenues.
19.       Merchandise exports rose by 16 percent in 1967 and 20 percent
during the first eight months of 1968. Gross official foreign exchange
reserves amounted to US$428 million at the end of August 1968 and were
equivalent to almost eight months' imports. Annual debt service in
1967 amounted to 5.6 percent of exports of goods and services. It is
estimated that the further capital inflow required and the relatively
less favorable terms on which it can be obtained will raise debt service
to 10 percent or more by the mid-1970's. Given the past record of progress
and the favorable prospects for the future, the Republic of China is credit-
worthy for the proposed Bank loan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMEIT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMEDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Taiwan Power Company in an amount
equivalent to U.S. $50,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Republic
of China.



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Taiwan Power Company
to be guaranteed by the Republic of China, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifty million United States
dollars (U.S. $50,000,000), to mature on and prior to October
15, 1993, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half
percent (6½< percent) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Tachien Power Project) between the Bank and the
Taiwan Power Company, and the form of Guarantee Agreement
(Tachien Power Project) between the Republic of China and
the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by S.R. Cope
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
November 13, 1968



