Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4417-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AmOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70.0 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
May 14, 1987
This documnt bas a restricted dIstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1986                March 1987
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       u JD .350                   JD .340
JD 1.00       * US$2.86                   US$2.94
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDl - US$2.85
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN AND JORDAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATPS - Aqaba Thermal Power Station
GWh   - Gigawatt Hour (1000 MWh)
HTPS - Hussein Thermal Power Station
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
IDECO - Irbid District Electricity Company
IAEA - International Atomic Energy Agency
JEA   - Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO - Jordanian Electric Power Company
kWh   - Kilowatt Hour (1000 Watthours)
kV    - Kilovolt (1000 volts)
MEMR  - Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
MVA   - Megavolt Ampere (1000 Kilovolt Ampere)
iw    - Megawatt (1000 Kilowatts)
MWh   - Megawatt Hour (1000 Kilowatt hours)
TPC   - The Aqaba Port Corporation



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:             Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA).
Amount:                  US$70.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government
and onlent on the same terms as the Bank loan to JEA.
The foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks
would be borne by JEA.
Project Description:    The project is part of JEA's high priority 1988-95
investment program for the development of Jordan's
power subsector and includes: (i) the expansion of
the existing sea-water-cooled steam power plant at
Aqaba by the addition of 2x130-MW units initially
firing heavy fuel oil and with the boilers and power
station layout suitable for future coal firing; (ii)
upgrading the substations at Aqaba and Amman-South to
400 kV; and (iii) the consulting services associated
with (i) and (ii). The proposed project would help
meet Jordan's future power demand at least cost to the
economy and would help the Government to potentially
reduce the country's dependence on imported oil by
introducing the possibility of substituting oil with
coal in Jordan's future power generation should coal
prove more economical. It would also help improve the
quality of power supply services and continue
institution-building efforts to further develop JEA as
a technically efficient entity. There are no major
risks associated with the project, as it is an
extension of an existing power station. However, a
delay in the decision to convert the power station to
coal firing, should the switch be economical in the
future, would lead to higher operating costs for JEA.
Adequate provisions have been made to deal with this
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



;-~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 'i :
Local           Foreign            Total
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------(USI  ~Milllons) --------                             -
Estimated Cost*:
Power Station                          31.3             162.8             194.1
Civil works                       (13.4)            (20.1)            (33.5)
Equipment                         (12.5)           (134.5)           (147.0)
Engineering                        (5.4)             (8.2)            (13.6)
Amman-South Substation                  2.1              11.8              13.9
Civil works                        (0.9)             (0.6)             (1.5)
Equipment                          (0.9)            (11.0)            (11.9)
Engineering                        (0.3)             (0.2)             (0.5)
Base Cost                          33.4             174.6             208.0
Physical Contingencies                  2.4              12.3              14.6
Price Contingencies                     2.9              16.9              19.9
Total Project Cost                 38.7             203.8             242.5
Interest during Construction            -                15.3              15.3
Total Financing Required           38.7             219.1             257.8
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank Loan                -                70.0              70.0
Cofinancing
Arab Fund                           -                24.0              24.0
Kuwait Fund                         -                24.0              24.0
OPEC Fund                           -                 5.0               5.0
Islamic Development Bank            -                14.0             14.0
Export, Suppliers' Credits              -                48.5              48.5
JEA's Cash Generation                  38.7              33.6              72.3
Total Financing                    38.7             219.1            257.8
Estimated
Disbursements:                                      Bank FY
1983    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
…-----------------…US$ Million…
Annual                   2.1     9.8    15.4    15.4    12.6    12.4       2.3
Cumulative               2.1    11.9    27.3    42.7    55.3    67.7    70.0
Rate of Return: 19 percent.
Appraisal Report: Number 6496-JO, dated May 12, 1987.
nap: Number IBRD 19882.
* Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which JEA is
exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRiSIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECT'RS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$70.0 million equivalent to help
finance a Seventh Power Project.  The loan would be for 17 years, including
four years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Government
would onlend the proposed Bank loan to the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA)
*       on the same terms as the Bank loan.  JEA would bear the foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risks. Official bilateral and multilateral sources
would provide about $67 million equivalent towards the financing of the
project, and export and suppliers' credits another $48.5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.       A report entitled "Efficiency and Equity of Government Revenues and
Social Expenditures" (No. 5697-JO, dated June 1986) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1986. An economic mission visited the country in
December 1986; its findings have been included in the present text.12'
Country data sheets are attached as Annex l.
Background
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and, until 1982, through the rapid
expansion of domestic production fueled by an exceptionally high investment
rate and rapidly growing export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's
total workforce is employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers'
remittance inflows, Jordan benefitted from large inflows of grant aid from
neighboring countries as well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for
its exports. During the period 1977-82, the yearly inflow of workers'
remittances and grants reached on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's
GDP. The abundant supply of these resources and a favorable entrepreneurial
climate enabled Jordan to maintain both very high consumption and investment
rates.
!/   This section and Annex I of this report are the same as the Part I ard
attachments to the Country Brief, which have been distributed to the
Executive Directors.
2/   References in the text which follows are to the East Bank of Jordan.



-2-
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1977-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad. Hence, government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained within reasonable limits, and borrowing
on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level.
5.       The rapid expansion of the economy also enabled Jordan to achieve
significant progress in improving the social welfare of its people in a
relatively short period of time. Primary schooling is now universal,
enrollment rates at the lower and senior secondary levels increased rapidly,
and the adult literacy rate doubled in the past twenty years to about 70
percent. In addition, most of the population has access to electricity and to
safe water through house connections; and in the next few years, the number of
Jordanians connected to a piped sewerage system is expected to double to reach
over half of the population. On the other hand, although there have been
large-scate investments in housing, about 40 percent of the urban lower income
groups continue to live in overcrowded conditions because of the high cost of
housing. In the last two decades, the Government has made major efforts to
expand health facilities and increase the number and quality of health
personnel, and the health status of Jordanians has improved significantly. As
a result of improvements in health care, mortality has declined rapidly and
life expectancy has risen from 47 years in 1960 to 64 years in 1982.
Nevertheless, critical problems of preventable diseases remain to be addressed
as a matter of high priority. Fertility, on the other hand, remains high; and
the large rate of natural increase means that increasing public resources will
have to be devoted just to maintaining the current access to and standards of
services. This will be particularly difficult at a time when an economic
slowdown has led to budgetary constraints and growing unemployment.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries and a reduction in the inflow of external transfers began to affect
the Jordanian economy and led to a slowdown of domestic economic activity.
Foreign grant aid in 1983-85 was about 40 percent lower than 1980-83, and
workers' remittances stagnated. Estimates based on half-yearly data show that
in 1986, grants have fallen further but remittances have held up to the 1985
level. In the meanwhile, prices of Jordan's major primary commodity exports
such as phosphate fell sharply; and demand for export of manufacturers in the
neighboring Arab markets collapsed, thereby sharply reducing export earnings.
The Government responded to these developments by adopting severe
expenditure-reducing policies. Public expenditures were cut back, tax efforts
were increased, and the money supply was restricted. While these measures
have averted severe balance of payments or public finance problems, they have
nevertheless led to an economic recession. The overall economic growth has
slowed down to only 3 percent since 1983 compared to over 10 percent p.a.



-3-
during 1977-82 and Imports bave fallen by 4 percent p.a. The most spectacular
decline, however, has been in total investment, which has fallen by 5 percent
p.a. over 1983-85 compared to a growth of 12 percent p.a. over 1977-82.
7.       The emergence of balance of payments difficulties preceded the
current economic recession. Over 1980-83, real imports rose by 10 percent
p.a., real export growth slowed down to 5 percent p.a., and oil prices rose
sharply. As a result, the current account went from a surplus of 11.3 percent
of GDP in 1980 to a deficit of 10 percent of GDP in 1983. Since then,
expenditure reduction policies followed by Government have cut back imports
and reduced the deficit to about 4.1 percent of GDP by 1985. A further small
reduction is expected in 1986. The measures taken for reducing the deficit,
however, coincided with a 40 percent fall in grant aid and a stagnation in
workers' remittances that occurred as a result of the weakening of oil prices,
thus forcing Jordan to increase its reliance on commercial borrowing and draw
down its reserves. Debt service obligations, therefore, increased from less
than 5 percent of exports of goods and services in 1980 to about 13.5 percent
by 1985. Reserves are currently three months oE imports. While Jordan's
indebtedness clearly remains within manageable limits, it has nevertheless
been achieved by a sharp reduction in imports, which has contributed to the
economic recession.
8.       Concerned with falling external grant aid (a large share of which has
traditionally financed budget deficits), budgetary policy during 1983-85 was
aimed at controlling the overall budget deficit through a combination of
increased tax efforts and expenditure control. Excise tax rates on a number
of commodities were increased frequently, pushing up the tax revenue from 17
percent of GDP during 1980-83 to 18 percent of GDP during 1983-85. The growth
in current expenditure was he'd ' only 6 percent p.a. during 1983-85 compared
to 15 percent p.a. during 196.     by freezing public sector wages.  The most
significant budgetary measure was, however, a cutback on the capital
expenditure, the brunt of which was borne by projects in agriculture,
especially in the rainfed areas, by the Maqarin Dam, and by projects in the
social sectors. As a result of these measures, budgetary capital expenditure
fell by about 2.1 percent p.a. during 1983-86 compared to a growth of 7
percent p.a. during 1980-83.
9.       While the taxfexpenditure measures combined to hold the overall
budgetary deficit to around 8.4 percent of GDP, the sharp fall in foreign
grants resulted in an increase in the residual financing requirements. These
were mainly met by increased foreign borrowing, while domestic financing was
restricted to only 1.6 percent of CDP on average. This policy, together with
a decline in international inflation contributed to a continuous reduction in
the domestic inflation rate from a high of almost 8 percent p.a. in 1980-83 to
about 3 percent in 1985 and even lower in 1986.
The Five Year Plan (1986-90)
10.      The 1986-90 Five Year Plan aims at addressing the two sets of
challenges facing the Government as a result of a continued weakness in the
oil markets and the resulting unfavorable outlook in the neighboring
countries. The first is an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange. The
continuation of present trends in grants and workers' remittances together



-4-
with Jordan's heavy reliance on imports will increase the external borrowing
requirements during the Plan and could place an increasingly heavy debt burden
on the economy beyond 1990. The second is the prospect of a rapidly
increasing labor force in the face of a declining rate in employment
creation. There already is - and it is safe to predict that there will
continue to be - a substantial weakening of the domestic and regional demand
for Jordanian labor. The Jordanian labor force, however, will inevitably
continue to expand, as a result of high population growth together with a
spectacular increase in the enrollment in the formal education system and the
potential for a higher participation rate. Substantial unemployment could,
therefore, result by the end of the Plan period unless special efforts are
made to productively deploy Jordan's most precious resource - its trained,
experienced, and industrious workers. In sum, the changing economic
environment would seem to compel Jordan to pursue a strategy of constrained
use of capital and enhanced use of labor in manufacturing, agriculture, and
services.
11.      The 1986-90 Plan indeed contains the key elements of just such a new
strategy for growth and employment in the presence of a growing shortage of
foreign exchange. While Jordan plans to continue to expand its agriculture
and natural resource-based industry, the most profitable opportunities in
these sectors have largely been exploited under past Plans. The centerpiece
of the new strategy embodied in the Plan is, therefore, the development of
labor intensive, small and medium scale industry oriented towards exports.
Other elements of the strategy include the development of Jordan as a regional
center of banking and finance, promotion of tourism and the continued efforts
for the strengthening of Jordan's role as a supplier of skilled manpower to
the region.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.      Over the next decade, Jordan is likely to face a considerably harsher
external environment compared to the late 1970s and early 1980s. Our
projections assume that the overall investment will decrease from 32 percent
of GNP in 1985 to 26 percent by 1990. In line with the Government's policies
embodied in the 1986-90 Plan, the bulk of this decrease will be a result of a
cutback in public investment while the share of private investment in the
total investment is expected to increase. It is thus critical for the
Government to put in place the financial and other incentives needed for the
promotion of industrial growth, technical services, exports and efficient
import substitution.  This, together with a continued restraint in the public
investment program, would make CDP growth in the 4-5 percent range feasible
and would allow a modest increase in the per capita income of a rapidly
growing population.
13.      On this basis, Jordan's external situation during the 1986-90 Plan
period would remain healthy. Exports of goods and non-factor services should
increase by about 6 percent p.a. in real terms over 1986-90. While this is
low compared to growth rates of over 10 percent p.a. achieved before 1982, it
is a substantial acceleration compared to only 1.0 percent p.a. achieved in
1983-85, reflecting the promotional measures planned or already taken by the
Government to develop Jordan's manufacturing exports. Imports are expected to
increase less rapidly than exports because of the expected sizable reduction



-5-
in the level of investments, and the sustained efforts to improve the
efficiency of resource use. As a result, the trade deficit is expected to
decline from about 44 percent of GDP in 1985 to about 25 percent in 1990.
External AssisLance
14.      Workers' remittances and foreign grants will probably continue to
stagnate. They will, however, be sufficient to reduce the current account
deficit to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1990 compared to 6.3 percent in 1985.
The overall gross external financing requirewiients, taking into account the
projected current account deficit and the amortization obligations on existing
and new debt, would amount to $3.6 billion for the 1986-90 Plan period. Gross
disbursements, therefore, should reach about $725 million a year on average,
which are about 35 percent above the average disbursements during 1980-85.
The magnitude of required gross disbursements coupled with scarcer Arab
concessional funds will make it difficult to maintain the high proportion of
concessional borrowing achieved in the past. It is, therefore, likely that
Jordan will have to significantly increase its borrowing on nonconcessional
terms, including borrowing in the financial markets. Even on this basis, the
debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach only 15 percent by 1990 and 20 percent by 1995. Given the
country's record of prudent management and its willingness to implement the
strategy described above (para. 11), Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART 1I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN1'
15.      As of March 31, 1987, Jordan had received a total of 38 Bank loans
and IDA credits totalling $648.8 million (net of cancellations), of which
about $557.8 million are still outstanding. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 55-65 percent of appraisal estimates, and
this disbursement percentage has generally been higher than the average for
the EMENA Region. IFC has made loans and equity in Jordan with total
commitments of $94.8 million.
16.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, to reduce its
dependence on external grants, and to spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank Group's strategy has been tailored to support
those objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and develop a new strategy for
employment and growth that goes beyond the previous objectives, which have
been largely achieved of utilizing the country's major natural resources, in
order to promote the development of labor-intensive small and medium scale
manufacturing and services based on skills such as consulting, maintenance and
contracting; (b) to alleviate infrastructure constraints in the productive
sectors; (c) to develop the human resources to sustain the new strategy; and
(d) to encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services
1/   This section is substantially the same as Part II of the Country Brief,
which has been distributed to the Executive Directors.



-6-
among region. and income groups, while increasing the cost effectiveness of
these services with an emphasis, as appropriate, on basic needs.
17.      Within this broad framework, Bank lending has focussed on water
supply and sewerage, power and energy development, education and urban and
municipal development. The Bank has also lent for industry, transportation,
and recently became involved in the health sector with a loan for a Primary
Health Care Project. These projects were designed with an emphasis on
institution building to assist the agencies involved to develop their
capabilities to plan, prepare, and implement projects on their own. Future
lending would include projects for education and manpower development,
transportation, water supply and sewerage, urban development, health,
telecommunicatirns, power generation, industry and mining. IFC has provided
loans and equicy contributions for a major fertilizer project and for projects
in the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted the capital
market and leasing ventures.
18.      The Bank's economic work program aims to develop the well-established
policy dialogue with the Government in the following priority areas: (1)
policy reforms needed to stimulate the growth of labor intensive
export-oriented small and medium scale industries, (ii) policy reforms needed
to encourage the exports of services, (iii) updating of the country economic
situation focussed on labor markets, resource mobilization and borrowing
strategies. These subjects are crucial in view of the substantially tighter
balance of payments and rising unemployment expected for the rest of the
decade. Moreover, the Bank has helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, urban and education/training sectors. The Bank's
economic and sector work will continue to focus on strengthening the
macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program.
19.      At the end of 1985, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 9.0 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5.2 percent. In 1987, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and disbursed and in debt service are expected to be about 11.5 and 8.8
percent, respectively.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
A. ENERGY SECTOR
20.      Resource Base and Government Strategy.  With the exception of solar
and wind energy, Jordan's known energy resources are limited and consist of
oil shale deposits, some tar sands, a small hydropower potential, and a few
low temperature geothermal sources. To date, no commercially exploitable
coal, lignite, uranium or oil and gas reserves are known to exist. Recent oil
discoveries in the Hamza field indicate potential production levels of 700
barrels per day compared to Jordan's requirement of crude oil of about 60,000
barrels per day. Oil shale and solar energy are unlikely to contribute
significantly to the future supply of commercial energy, given present
technologies and current and projected energy prices. There is also
uncertainty about the extent and viability of geothermal resources, as well as
the full development of the remaining hydropower potential, which is hampered
by issues of riparian rights. Thus, Jordan is entirely dependent on imported



-7-
fuel oil for its commercial energy needs. Currently, the Government is
undertaking a program to rationalize petroleum exploration with the
participation of international oil companies. Unless a commercial discovery
of oil or gas is made, however, the prospects of domestic energy resources
making a significant contribution to meetinig the country's commorcial energy
needs appear bleak in the foreseeable future. Increasing economic constraints
facing the country underscore the importance of government efforts, through
conservation and other meanst, to reduce oil imports.
21.      The Bank's Energy Sector Study (No. 4012-JO) carried out a detailed
review of the sector and recoimnended a comprehenslve action plan, which
focussed on the development of domestic energy resources and improved energy
conservation, pricing and planning and strengthening the sector's
institutional framework. Based on discussions of this action plan, the
Government has developed an energy policy which focusses on: (a) efficient use
of energy through demanid management, energy conservation and pricing measures;
(b) development of economic and diversified energy supplies; (c) adoption of
pricing policies that ensure economic efficiency and financial viability of
energy sector entities; and (d) improved sector management through: (i)
streamlining responsibility for overall energy policy formulation; and (ii)
strengthening technical capabilities for energy planning consistent with macro
objectives of the economy. Good progress is being made in implementing this
strategy, as discussed below.
22.      Energy Consumption.  Gross energy consumption grew at an annual
average rate of about 14.6 percent between 1975 and 1983; although between
1983 and 1985 the rate of growth declined to 4.4 percent per annum, due mainly
to the slowdown of the economy. Energy intensity, energy consumption per unit
of GDP, also declined to 1.5 in 1985 compared to 2.3 in 1975, reflecting the
slowdown in the economy as well as effective demand management and
conservation measures. The Government's program of energy conservation
includes energy audits, which have been completed in key industries and the
transport sector, financed in part under the Energy Development Project (Loan
2371-JO). Funds have been provided in the new Five Year Plan for the
implementation of the audits' recommendations. The Government has also set up
an advisory unit within the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) to
provide technical advice on building and home insulation and heating and
cooling. Based on the expected continued slower growth in the economy and the
Government's conservation efforts, gross energy consumption is forecast to
grow at an annual average rate of about 3 percent to 1995 and energy intensity
is projected to decline to 1.1.
23.      Petroleum Product Pricing.  The prices of petroleum products are set
by the Government and revised periodically, and it has been the Government's
policy to end petroleum product subsidies by 1989. Since 1979 the Government
has been phasing out subsidies that had been used after 1973 to buffer the
economy from the adverse impact of higher energy prices. Currently, largely
because of the fall in the price of oil, prices of all petroleum products are
above their economic costs, and the petroleum subsector is a net contributor
to the government budget. The Government has confirmed its policy of
maintaining these prices at their economic levels; given the uncertainties
surrounding the international oil prices, it has been agreed that the
Government and the Bank would periodically exchange views with regard to the



-8-
Governm,uit'a policies on the pricing of petroleum products and on its plan.
for the overall davolopmant of the energy sector.
24.     IIntitutional Framework.  In the past, the sector wns plagued with
problems of inadequato coordination and plaining due to the large number of
public and privato institutions.  In late 1984, tho Government created MXMR
with responsibility for formulating policies on pricing and development of the
energy mector.  Since MEMR is still in Its formative stages, there is a need
to *trengthen its capabitties.  A program of training and recruitment is
under way, which emphasizes planning and pricing. The European Economic
Community, the Internatiunal Atomic Energy Agency (lARA). U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Baink are providing assistance.
B. POWER SUBSECTOR
25.      Subsector Organization.  S- eral entities are involved in the
development and the operation of Jordan's power subsector: (i) MEMR is
responsible for the development, coordination and pricing policy formulation
for the subsector and for regulating the operation of the private enterprises
in the power subsector; (ii) the Jordan Eltictricity Authority (JEA), a
financially and administratively autonomous government-owned utility created
in 1967, is responsible for the formulation of plans for the overall
devel 'nment of the power subsector, the construction and operation of
generation and transmission facilities for virtually all publicly supplied
electricity, bulk sales to large industries and the distribution companies,
and for the distribution of electricity in the areas under its jurisdiction.
JEA is also responsible for the formulation of the national rural
electrification program in consultation with the Ministry of Planning and
MEMR; (iii) the Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO), a private company
owned by investors, JEA and the municipalities, distributes electricity in the
city of Amman and its environs (about 70 percent of total electricity sold at
the medium-and low-voltage levels in 1985); and (iv) the Irbid District
Electricity Company (IDEC0), which is a semi-private company owned by JEA, the
municipalities of the rrbid and Mafraq governorates, and by private
investors. IDECO's service area encompasses the governorates of Irbid and
Mafraq, except the Jordan Valley area which is entrusted to JEA, and its sales
in 1985 amounted to about 15 percent of total electricity sold at the medium-
and low-voltage levels.
26.      The labor force employed in the electric power subsector has grown
from about 3,500 employees in 1980 to about 4,200 in 1984, and labor
productivity from 250 MWh sold per employee in 1980 to about 560 MWh in 1985,
which is a relatively high productivity rate compared to other countries in
the region. Overall, the three power entities are well managed and
appropriately staffed and organized. A diagnostic study included under the
Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO) would outline measures to further improve
operations and maintenance for the three entities.
27.      The Beneficiary.  JEA has a board of eight directors appointed by the
Government, with the Minister of MEMR as the Chairman of the Board. JEA is
well organized and properly managed and has already proven its competence in
carrying out its responsibilities. Its present organization structure is
based on the recommendations of management consultants appointed under



-9-
Credit 386-JO. JEA has a total staff of 1580, of which 130 are graduate
engineers and 920 are other technical staff. JEA has a satisfactory program
to train its staff in technical, financial and administrative services. The
training is being done overseas or locally at JEA's Training Center.
Recognizing the need for a more comprehensive training facility for the power
subsector, which would cover all the required service9, JEA is currently
initiating, with the assistance of tne Japanese Government, the construction
of a training center for the sector, which would enhance training of new
recruits and provide improvement and upgrading courses for the existing staff
in the three power entities.
28.      General Characteristics of the Electric Power System.  Jordan's power
subsector has grown very rapidly. Total installed generating capacity in the
country increased froMi about 30 MW in 1970 to about 952 MW presently, and the
distribution system hAs expanded in unison with the growth in generating and
transmission capacities. By the end of 1986, JEA's installed generating
capacity was 862 MW, of which 72 percent was oil-fired steam units at the
Hussein Thermal Power Station (HTPS) and Aqaba Thermal Power Station (ATPS),
21 percent was gas turbine plants firing heavy fuel nil and the remaining 7
percent consisted of diesel generator plants. In addition, IDECO has an
installed capacity of 6 MW, and industries own a total of about 84 MW of
installed capacity in steam and diesel units, which are connected to the
public supply system. The transmission networks consist of 1640 circuit-km
and substation capacity totalling 1370 MVA. Distribution networks consist of
3480 km, witl substation capacity of 1850 MVA.
29.      Power System Losses.  Total power system losses are presently
estimated at about 14 percent. Losses in the distribution system are about 10
,-ercent, which are somewhat higher than the economically achievable level of
about 8 percent. Consequently, as part of its general power system efficiency
.mprovecment program, the Government has initiated, under the on-going Energy
'levelopinent Project, a Load Research and Management Study, with the assistance
,of cobcuitAnts, which would (i) identify the sources and nature of
distribution systFim losses and provide recommendations and an action plan to
reduce them, (ii) provide information on consumer characteristics for tariff
design, and (iii) propose recommendations on load management.  This study is
now in the process of being finalized.  It was agreed that the Government
would develop avnd submit to che Bank by June 30, 1988 an action plan based on
the study's findings and thereafter implement the study's recommendations to
reduce power system losses over the next five years.
*        30.      Electricity Consumption.  Electricity consumption has grown at an
average rate of about 23 percent per year between 1975 and 1985 to about 1,770
GWh, or 709 kWh per capita, which is slightly higher than the average for
similar middle income countries.  The growth rate declined to about 19 percent
between 1980 and 1985, compared with 26 percent per annum between 1975 and
-1980, due to the slowdowrn of the economy.  It is forecast to gr3w at an annual
aver.age rate of about 8 percent between 1986 and 1990 and at about 6 percent
during 1991-95.  Access to public electricity supply is now about 87 percent
of.ttbetotal population; and rural electrification has expanded rapidly, with
access'to public electricity supply increasing from about 25 percent of rural
population in 1975 to about 85 percent at present.  In the next five years
access should reach about 100 percent of the urban and about 90 percent of the
rural-pbpulation.
..  ,  . .,, \ .I'
;:  :\Q       . i



-10-
31.      Electricity Pricing.  The average electricity prices to most
consumers are close to parity with the economic cost of supply, based on
Jordan's current average price for crude oil of $18 per barrel. The tariff
structure consists of peak demand and time-of-day energy rates for bulk supply
to the distribution companies and large industries and for medium scale
industries, increasing block rates for domestic consumers and public
buildings, a flat energy rate for commercial consumers, a declining block rate
for small industrial consumers, and a fixed charge per month for domestic and
small industrial consumers. For industrial consumers, there is also a penalty
for poor power factor. In late 1984, electricity tariffs were changed by the
introduction of uniform tariff structures for the various consumer categories
throughout the country and differential adjustments in electricity rates,
which led to an average increase of about 8 percent in the average revenue per
kilowatt-hour sold to final consumers. In June 1986, the Government reduced
electricity tariffs to certain consumer categories, in parallel with its
decision to pass on to consumers some of the benefits of declining oil prices
and to reduce the price of fuel oil to JEA. These adjustments led to an
average reduction of about 13 percent in the average revenue per kilowatt-hour
sold to final consumers, although the overall average retail price after the
recent increase in oil prices is still close to parity with the economic cost
of supply as discussed above. The Government has confirmed that it is its
policy to authorize the power utilities to take timely actions to adjust their
tariffs to reflect the fuel prices charged to them. Due to the present
unstable fuel prices and their effects on the power utilities' finances, it
has been agreed that the Government and the Bank would periodically exchange
views regarding th Government's policy on electricity pricing.
32.      The tariff structure could be strengthened to provide greater
incentives for industrial consumers and water pumping and heating operations
to shift part of their electricity demand to off-peak periods. Furthermore,
it is difficult to justify pricing electricity to industrial consumers below
economic cost. An energy pricing study is being undertaken by the Government,
with financing from USAID, which will review the economic cost of supply and
design tariffs for the various consumer categories, taking into consideration
economic efficiency in consumption, financial viability of the power entities
and the Government's social objectives. Terms of reference for the study were
finalized with Bank assistance. Under the Sixth Power Project (2710-JO), it
was agreed that the Government and the Bank would exchange views on the
results of the study, expected to be completed by December 31, 1987, and on
the steps to be taken to implement its recommendations.
33.      Experience with Past Lending.  The proposed loan would be the eighth
Bank Group lending operation in the energy sector. The first two, Credit
386-JO (1973) for $10 million and Credit 570-JO (1975) for $5 million, with
cofinancing from the Kuwait and Arab Funds, were designed to support
government efforts to expand the development of Jordan's power generation
capacity by financing three steam power units and a gas turbine at the HTPS,
the reconditioning of the Marka diesel power station, and a study to plan the
development of transmission and distribution grids in the southern region.
The steam units and diesel station are operating satisfactorily.   Loan
1688-JO (1979) of $15 million financed the development of the national
transmission network and the extension of public supply of electricity to 33
villages in the areas served by JEA. The combined Project Completion Report



-ll-
(PCR) for the two credits (June 1982) and the PCR for Loan 1688-JO note that
the projects fully accomplished, and in some respects exceeded, their
objectives. Loan 1986-Jo (1981) of $25 million covered parts of the
development programs of JEA and JEPCO for the period 1981-1984. The project
has been satisfactorily completed, and a PCR is being prepared. Loan 2162-JO
(1982) for $35 million, with cofinancing from a number of bilateral and
multilateral institutions, assisted JEA in covering the foreign exchange cost
of a new thermal power station at Aqaba consisting of 2x130-MW units with a
total cost of about $250 million. The project was completed with only minor
delays, and the two units were commissioned in May and July 1986.
34.      The Energy Development Project (Loan 2371-JO (1984) of US$30 million)
with cofinancing from USAID and EEC was designed to support the Government's
implementation of the action plan for the sector. It covered the foreign
exchange cost of parts of the development programs of JEPCO's and IDECO's
power distribution system, as well as assistance to the Government in
petroleum exploration, energy conservation and planning, with the objective of
improving Jordan's overall energy efficiency. After a delay in meeting the
effectiveness conditions, implementation of the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily. Finally, the Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO) is assisting
the three entities to expand their rural and urban distribution networks and
providing consultant services to furth.tr institution-building objectives in
the subsector.
35.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Bank Group operations in the power
subsector have been designed to support the derelopment of a rapidly expanding
and modern power system. The major objectives of these operations are the
institutional development of the power entities, introduction ol a pricing
policy that would ensure their financial viability and economic efficiency in
electrical consumption and the progressive interconnection of the power system
to provide reliable and economic power supply. IDA/Bank lending has also been
an important catalyst to attract other external financing for the energy
sector. Finally, the Bank's sector work has been instrumental in helping the
Government develop a comprehensive strategy for the energy sector, including
the power subsector. While, as discussed above, significant progress has been
made in all these areas, more remains to be done in generating and
distributing electricity to keep up with forecasted demand. During a period
in which growth of electricity demand is expected to be less robust than in
the past, it becomes more important than ever to focus on those aspects which
increase efficiency in the subsector. Thus, through our lending operations,
our objectives in the subsector are to assist the power utilities to increase
their financial autonomy and operating efficiency (through introducing new
tecnnologies for the distribution network and reducing power losses); and to
improve power system planning and coordination of demand forecasting,
investment planning, accounting, reporting and management information
systems. The proposed project would enable the Bank to continue its efforts
towards achieving the above objectives, while building on the achievements
under the previous loans and the Energy Sector Study.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.      The proposed project was identified in May 1985 and appraised in July
1986. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 29 to May 5,



-12-
1987. The Jordanian delegation was headed by Dr. Ziad Fariz, Secretary
General of the Ministry of Planning. A Staff Appraisal report entitled
"Jordan Seventh Power Project" (No.6496-JO), dated May 12, 1987, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and project are given in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
A map showing the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
37.      Jordan is virtually totally dependent on imports for meeting its
needs for primary energy. The main objectives of the proposed project are:
Mi) to meet Jordan's future power demand at least cost to the economy, and
(ii) to potentially reduce the country's dependence on imported oil by
introducing the possibility of substituting oil with coal in Jordan's future
power generation program should coal prove more economical. The project would
also help improve the quality of service and continue institution-building
efforts to further develop JEA as a technically efficient entity.
38.      The project, which is part of JEA's high priority 1988-1995
investment program, includes: Ci) the expansion of the existing steam power
plant at Aqaba by the addition of 2x130-MW units initially firing heavy fuel
oil and with the boilers and the power station layout suitable for future coal
firing; (ii) upgrading the substations at Aqaba and Amman-South to 400 kV; and
(iii) consulting services (658 staffmonths) associated with ti) and (ii).
39.      Manpower Development and Training.  In line with its policy to
further develop the technical capability of its staff and in relation to the
project's specific needs, JEA has included in the packages to be procured for
the project a training component, which would ensure that JEA's personnel is
well trained and knowledgeable in the safe and efficient operation and
maintenance of the project facilities. This training component provides for
an estimated 60 staff-years of training and consists of interrelated
activities: (i) formal classroom training; (ii) off-site training at
manufacturers' shops and at a plant operationally similar to the Aqaba Power
Station; and (iii) on the job training.
40.      Least Cost Analysis and Choice of Primary Fuel.  In 1984, with the
assistance of its consulting firm, JEA prepared a comprehensive least-cost
power generation development plan for the period up to the year 2000. The
study examined the prospects for introducing a new type generation plant
(combined-cycle) and for using imported coal in order to diversify the sources
of primary energy supply. The study concluded that the extension of the Aqaba
Thermal Power Station by 2x130-MW dual coal/oil-fired units, to come on stream
in 1991/92 and with coal as the primary fuel, offered the least-c3st means of
meeting future demand on the system. Following the 1986 decline in oil prices
and using a more realistic load growth, JEA undertook an extensive sensitivity
analysis which continued to demunstrate the economic viability of the proposed
project.
41.      To further review its decision on the basis of actual capital cost,
JEA required prospective bidders for the construction of the power station to
submit a base tender for 2x130-MW dual-fired units with coal being the primary
fuel (option 1) as well as an alternative option with heavy fuel oil being the



-13-
initial fuel with provision for ready conversion to coal in the future (option
2). This second option would include all necessary coal-firing design
parameters, particularly for the boilers, but coal handling, storage and
additional firing equipment and construction of a jetty required to import
coal for the projact (para. 48) would be procured in the future. On the basis
of the bids received and at 1987 fuel prices assumed to remain constant in
real terms, JEA has reevaluated the least-cost solution. JEA's analysis
concluded that option 2 (oil) would be the least-cost option if present fuel
prices do not increase in real terms and has therefore decided at this time to
proceed with this option. A detailed Bank review of JEA's analysis showed
that there is no significant difference between the two options assuming fuel
prices remain constant in real terms. However, in the event that fuel prices
increase in line with the Bank's latest projections, option 1 (coal) would be
the least-cost solution by a considerable margin compared to option 2. While
acknowledging that the coal option may be cheaper in the future, the
Government does not wish to commit itself at this time to the significant
additional investment in dual firing. Furthermore, given (i) the uncertainty
of future fuel prices; (ii) the fact that provision has been made for easy
conversion to future coal firing should that become more economic; (iii) the
Government's agreement to continue with designs and engineering for the jetty;
and (iv) the fact that the difference between the two options is marginal at
present fuel prices, the Government's decision to proceed with oil as the
initial fuel is reasonable. Moreover, JEA has agreed to exchange views with
the Bank with regard to the alternative uses of fuel in order to continue to
ensure the most economic operation of the power station.
42.      Project Cost and Financing Plan.  The total cost of the project,
including physical and price contingencies, but excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at about $242.5 million. The total financing
required, including interest during construction, is $257.8 million, of which
$219.1 million (85 percent) is foreign exchange. Cost estimates do not
include custom duties and taxes from which JEA is exempt. Estimates are based
on estimated January 1987 prices derived from bids received for the project
and being evaluated by JEA. Given the advanced stage of design and the fact
that the project is an extension to an existing power station, total physical
contingencies are estimated at about 10 percent and 7 percent of the base cost
for civil works and equipment/materials, respectively. Price contingencies
have been computed as follows: for international prices, 3 percent for 1987,
1 percent for 1988-1990, and 3.5 percent thereafter; and for local prices, 5
percent for 1987 and thereafter.
43.      The proposed Bank loan of $70.0 million would cover about 34 percent
of the foreign exchange requirements and 29 percent of the total cost of the
project. Cofinancing is expected to be provided by the Kuwait Fund ($24
million equivalent), OPEC Fund ($5 million), Arab Fund ($24 million), Islamic
Development Bank ($14 million) and export and suppliers' credits ($48.5
million). Signing of loan agreements with cofinanciers for about $85 million
to secure the foreign exchange gap (for the boilers and civil works contracts)
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. The balance would be
financed by JEA's internal cash generation. The proposed Bank loan, which
would be made to the Gcvernment at the standard variable interest rate for 17
years, including a four-year grace period, would be onlent to JEA on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan under a subsidiary loan agreement



-14-
satisfactory to the Bank, the execution of which would be a condition of
effectiveness. JEA would bear the foreign exchange and variable interest rate
risks.
44.      Procurement and Disbursements.  Procurement arrangements are
summarized below:
Procurement Method 1/
Project Components                        ICE 2/          Other        Total
-----US$ million-----------
A.  Power Station
- Civil works                             40.4                           40.4
- Equipment (supply and erection)        170.5                          170.5
(68.0)                        (68.0)
- Housing                                                   1.7 3/        1.7
B.  Amman-South Substation
- Civil works                              1.8                            1.8
- Equipment (supply and erection)         14.0                           14.0
C.  Engineering Services                                       14.1          14.1
(2.0)        (2.0)
TOTAL                               226.7            15.8         242.5
(68.0)           (2.0)        (70.0)
1/  Figures in parentheses indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank.
2/  The bidding documents for the packages which are not financed by the Bank
include a requirement for financing offers which will be used in
evaluating the bids.
3/  Direct negotiation with the Jordan Housing Corporation.
The goods and services to be procured have been grouped into nine packages.
The equipment package to be financed by the Bank (the turbine island) is being
procured in accordance with the Bank's ICB procurement guidelines. To
complete the project JEA will procure the remaining major items (civil works,
boiler island, switchyard, Amman-South substation) through its international
competitive bidding procedures. All contracts for works and equipment and
materials to be financed by the Bank would be subject to prior Bank rcview.
Consultants have been selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
45..     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a seven year period as
follows: (i) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of directly imported
equipment, materials, and services for the turbine island; and (ii) 100
percent of the foreign expenditures for the engineering services for the power
station.  The estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and Project Summary
is consistent with the Bank's standard disbursement profile for similar



-15-
projects, which is seven years on average. l/ In order to expedite
disbursements, a Special Account (revolving fund) of $5.0 million, equivalent
to an average of about four months disbursements, would be opened by the
Government and replenished on the basis of standard documentation for eligible
reimbursable expenditures. Statements of expenditures would be used for
disbursements for contracts with values below $200,000 equivalent,
documentation of which would be retained for review by Bank missions. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1994.
46.      In order to assist JEA in crucial preparation activities, retroactive
financing of up to $1.5 million is proposed for costs incurred after June 30,
1986, for consultants, recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Project Implementation
47.      The proposed project would be implemented by JEA assisted by its
consultants. JEA has appointed Chas I. Main (CTM) of the United States as
consultants for project engineering, management and construction coordination
for the power station. Specifically, CTM is assisting JEA in: (i) the
preparation of the specifications and bidding documents for the equipment and
works; (ii) the evaluation of bids; (iii) the finalization of the design
proposed by the selected bidders with the objective of ensuring close
coordination between the different packages; and (iv) the supervision of
equipment manufacturing, erection, testing and commissioning of the power
station. CTM has undertaken similar assignments for the implementation of the
first stage of the power station and has developed a good working relationship
with JEA. As CTM is increasing the part of engineering to be performed
locally, in close collaboration with JEA's staff, this is expected to further
develop JEA's capabilities in engineering thermal power stations. JEA has
also appointed Preece Cardew and Rider (PCR) of the United Kingdom as
consultant to assist in the design of its transmission network to accommodate
the load foreseen in the early 1990's. JEA's interconnected system has been
planned and designed on the basis of studies carried out by JEA's staff
assisted by PCR, which have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
PCR would also assist JEA's Transmission Department in: (i) designing the
400 kV Amman South substation; (ii) preparing the bidding documents;
(iii) evaluating bids; and (iv) supervising the construction of the substation
and its commissioning.
48.      As stated in para. 41 above, the project will initially fire heavy
fuel oil and provisions have been made to ensure a successful conversion to
coal. Should the switch to coal be decided, a jetty would be required in
Aqaba for importing coal. This jetty is expected to be a multipurpose jetty,
built under the auspices of the Aqaba Port Corporation 1TPC). To assist TPC
in the design and engineering of the jetty, consultancy services will be
required and are expected to be financed by Canadian International Development
1/ According to the agreed load forecast and to enable JEA to meet the
electricity demand more efficiently, the project would be needed early
1992. Past experience with JEA would indicate that if JEA maintains the
same degree of diligence, the project could be completed by early 1992 in
five years at a saving of $6.5 million.



-16-
Agency (CIDA). Draft terms of reference for such services have been provided
by the Bank to the Government, TPC and JEA. To ensure timely execution of the
jetty in relation to the future conversion of the power station to coal
firing, the Government has agreed to ensure that technical designs and
engineering for the jetty are prepared and submitted to the Bank by December
31, 1988.
49.      The proposed project is in an advanced stage of preparation.
Consultants have prepared the basic design and bidding documents. Bidding
documents for the boiler, turbine and switchyard islands, and civil works were
released in October-December 1986, and all related bids were received and
opened on March 31, 1987. JEA is currently evaluating the bids with the
assistance of CTM. Major contracts, in particular for the boilers,
turbo-generators and the civil works are expected to be awarded by October
1987. Project completion is expected June 1993.
50.      Environmental Impact.  The site for Stage II of the Aqaba Thermal
Power Station is adjacent to the first stage and is located on a sloping
alluvial plain, about 12 miles south cf the city of Aqaba and about half a
mile inland and east of the shoreline of the Gulf of Aqaba. The site is
almost totally devoid of vegetation. As was the case for the first stage, the
impact of pollutants from the power station on the environment has been
carefully examined by JEA's consultants using the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency's air quality and emission limitation standards; and the
project has been designed with these in mind. In order to reduce the ground
level concentrations of potentially harmful constituents, the design of the
power plant would particularly provide for one common chimney 175 meters high
connected to the two boilers. In the event of future conversion to coal
firing, the design of the project would be completed by the installation of
electrostatic precipitators, which would remove about 99 percent of the
entrained fly ash particles; in addition, dust from handling and storage of
coal would be controlled and kept at an acceptable level by dust control
equipment on the coal unloading and conveyance systems. Peak ground level
concentrations of atmospheric pollutants were determined, along with the
contribution of Stage I of the power station. Calculated ground level
concentrations of nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and sulfur dioxide are
well below acceptable levels. The effect of thermal impact on the coral reef
in the Gulf of Aqaba has also been thoroughly investigated by the consultants,
and the temperature rise will be reduced by natural dilution after discharge
to sufficiently limit the temperature at the edge of the plume to 29gC, which
is allowable for the protection of the marine life and cor8l reef in the
Gulf. In view of the above, the power station is not expected to cause any
significant environmental problems. In addition to what has been already
undertaken during the first stage of the power station, further personnel
training and pollution monitoring stations would be provided to observe and
analyze all key pollutants. It has been agreed that JEA would maintain
pollutant levels below internationally acceptable levels and take corrective
actions if necessary.
Financial Performance of JEA
51.      JEA's past financial performance has been generally satisfactory,
although the economic slow-down and the corresponding decline in electricity



-17-
sales as well as the energy conservation program are reflected in reduced
revenues. JEA's self-financing level, which was 42 percent in 1983 (including
a fuel subsidy which JEA had been receiving from the Government) declined to
29 percent in 1984 (without the fuel subsidy which was removed in 1984), 20
percent in 1985, and 23 per cent in 1986, compared with levels covenanted
under existing Bank Loan Agreements of 25 percent for 1983, 35 percent for
1984 and 1985, and 25 percent for 1986. This timeframe includes the major
construction program for the Aqaba I power plant. Under the circumstances of
the lumpy investment program and relatively high inflation during the period,
JEA's financial performance has been satisfactory. Despite the economic
slowdown and resulting decline in the growth of sales (estimated at about 7
percent annually during 1986-1995), JEA's financial position through 1995 is
expected to be satisfactory, provided JEA continues its program to maximize
efficiency and control wages, salaries and administrative expenses. These
projections assume tariff increases of about 10% in 1990 to cover projecte'
fuel price increases. Customer contributions include Government contributions
of JD 9 million as compensation to JEA for the capital costs of the highway
lighting program, services for future water pumping installations and service
to Government owned industries. Furthermore, JEA would meet all of its annual
operating expenses and debt service and provide a self-financing level of 35
percent of its large long-term investment program, which includes the
completion of the Aqaba I and II projects. JEA's debt/equity ratio, which was
61/39 as of December 31, 1986, is expected to average 55/45 during 1987-95 and
improve to 47/53 by 1995. JEA's liquidity, as reflected by the current ratio,
would be at acceptable levels for all years. JEA's debt service coverage is
expected to average about 1.3 during 1986-1994. In order to keep a careful
review of SEA's long-term debt, JEA has agreed to obtain the Bank's prior
approval for any new long-term borrowings in any one year over the equivalent
of $1.0 million unless the net revenue for each year during the term of the
debt (before depreciation and interest) is at least equal to 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirement for such years on all its debts.
52.      Revenue Covenant.  JEA maintains stringent controls on expenditures;
and, with improvements in efficiency expected from JEA's ongoing
rehabilitation programs, JEA's power losses should be reduced in future
years. As under the Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO),.it has been agreed to
set self-financing levels of 25 percent for fiscal year 1987, 30 percent for
fiscal year 1988 and 35 percent for fiscal years 1989 and thereafter. These
levels of internal cash generation would be adequate to cover the local
components of JEA's investments after meeting operating expenses and debt
service, and JEA's financial position would remain sound.
53.      Due to the financially sensitive effects of fuel prices, exchange
rates, operating expenses and costs involved in construction, the financial
projections should be kept under annual review. Thus it was also agreed that
the Government and JEA should review, at least three months before the end of
each fiscal year, the adequacy of revenues to produce, on the basis of a
forecast satisfactory to the Bank, the agreed self-financing level for the
following year; and on the basis of the above review, take the measures
required to achieve the agreed self-financing levels.



-18-
Reporting, Accounting, Billing and Audit
54.      JEA maintains its accuunts under a uniform system of accounts,
similar to the accounts used by U.S. electric utilities. JEA has computerized
the accounts, and its management is provided with timely monthly financial
reports. A committee of representatives from JEA, JEPCO and IDECO meets
periodically and reviews the accounting measures required to standardize the
utility accounting systems used by each of the electric utilities in Jordan.
Consultants have been appointed by JEA to implement certain accounting
procedures beginning in September 1986 that would enable JEA and JEPCO and
IDECO to standardize accounts as of January 1, 1988. In April 1986 it was
discovered that a meter registering JEA's sales to JEPCO had been billed in
error since October 1984. JEA had underbilled JEPCO by JD 1.6 million.
Consequently, due to the error JEA's accounts receivable as of December 31,
1985 amounted to 95 days billings, although without this error, JEA's accounts
receivable would have been equivalent to 45 days' billings, which is within
acceptable levels. JEA and JEPCO have agreed on measures of repayment over
the next three years to settle this large underpayment. The Government and
JEA have agreed to take all necessary actions to ensure that JEA's accounts
receivable do not exceed 45 days billings.
55.      Existing auditing arrangements are generally satisfactory.  JEA has
appointed independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank. Audit reports have
generally been submitted as agreed within five months of the end of the year.
JEA has agreed to continue the existing auditing arrangements, with the
addition of satisfactory arrangements to audit the Special Account and
statements of expenditures. Finally, the comprehensive set of key performance
indicators, agreed under previous loans, has been satisfactory for purposes of
monitoring the technical and financial performance of JEA and would be
continued for the proposed project.
Project Benefits and Risks
56.      At this important stage of its economic development, Jordan must meet
the power demand of its burgeoning industrial sector, as well as the domestic
demand associated with improving standards of living. The project is the
priority investment in JEA's development program to meet Jordan's growing
demand for electricity. The rate of return calculated on the required power
investment program for the incremental demand met by the project yielded 19
percent, compared with an opportunity cost of capital of 9 percent. The rate
of return reflects the fact that present tariffs are close to parity with the
economic cost of supply and also that the proposed project is an extension of
an existing power station; therefore, the capital cost does not include
certain srmk costs related to facilities built during the first stage of the
power station including the 400-kV transmission line to Amman.  Sensitivity
analyses were carried out by increasing the capital cost of the project by 10
percent and 25 percent and by reducing the sales of electricity by 10 percent
and 25 percent. Under the worst scenarios (increasing capital cost by 25
percent and reducing sales by 25 percent), the rates of return were still 13
percent and 11 percent, respectively.
57.      No special project risks are expected, since the project is an
extension of an existing thermal power station and a 132-kV substation and the



-19-
sub-soil investigations at the site indicate similar conditions should be
encountered. However, a possible delay could be experienced in the decision
to convert the power station to coal firing which would lead to higher
operating costs for JEA. The Project Agreement provides for periodic joint
reviews with the Bank with regard to fuel prices in order to continue to
ensure the most economic operation of the power station, and the necessary
designs for the jetty, which would be required to unload coal, are underway in
order to ensure that it will be ready when required.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 14, 1987
Washington D.C.



-20-
JARM  - IGmC   WICATWW                                                 ANNEX  I
Pa~gel of 3
HMM-IOU Fapk In    ftUsaiI      2 .6
lO   Per Capita 9W  in UP.t   160
A. Shares. Cf ross Domstic Product                         B. Grouti Rate. (IEper mnnue)
(from amigrnt prce data)                                  (from cocnstant pric, data)
1965  1973  130  1934  ISlip    1966.       ~~~~~~~~1965-73  1073-S0  1iwo-IA  l91p    1306.
Gross Domestic Product a.p.           ..   100      10.      I0.    1000        100.                        12.1      6.2       S. 1      3.7
Net Indireat ?eam.~                ..     115       .      233       1.1       6. 
Agriculunr                        ..       .1       7.1      6.A       ,       72.                        2.5      5.6     22.0        5.0
ISdu.t.y                          .      1.0    36.6    25.7        24.2    24.3                  ..     17.9      4.9    -1.0        3.9
Cog uhLch HnwRafaaurtna)          .       7.9    12.9    11.2       10.5    10.6                  ..     16.'      L.a    -1.3        6.9
Santo..                 ..    ~~~~~~~~~~60.5    55.1    54.0  54.7    54.6             ..     10.3      6h.1      3.2       3.1
PAmmures Bala.nce                          -18.5   -50.0   -49.5   -163.6   -25-.4                   .
Exports of QIPS                    ..    24.0    47.7    49.0    69.1         51.6                ..     24.5      2.3       7.0'     -9.6
Sports of ClU                     .      62.5    97.7    09.6       92.9    77.0                 ..      21.9      4.3      0.6      -6.4
Total Expeudlture.                   .    13B3.    150.0   149.5    143.6   225.4                    ..     14.3      6.3      0.5        2. '.
Total CcnsuuptLmu                       120.5   109.0   113.9   112.9    95.5                     ..     12.6      9.0      1.0       2.0
Private Coausptlon             ..      33,9     hi.    319.6     87.2    70.5                  ..     13.6      9.7      2.3       2.5
General Govanwi:                      36.6    24,8    25.3    25.7    25.0                     ..      9.7      6.2      0.0       0.0
Groam Domestic Invasumut           ..    23.0    41.1    32.6    30.7    29.9                     ..     24.2    -0.3    -LS3        -1.0
FLxed Iwestment                .      21.6    60.4    32.6       30.7    29.9                 ..      22.5    -0.2    -1.3        -1.0
Changea In Raock               ..     -3.7      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0                 .
Cream Owusatic Savtng                 ..    20.5    49.0   -16.9   -12.9         6.5                 .        ..     11.2   -63.5    -88.0
not Factor ncm..                          3.0    -0.3    -3.0    -5.5    -6.6                     .
MNo Currant Trusfers               .     36.3    62.1    47.4       42.9    3.5.3                 .        ..     -2.7'    -.        1.
Gross National, Savinga                      Mg8.    52.3    25.5      24.5    33.2                  ..     17.9    -8.7      23.7      -9.6
In millions of Jordanian DLnars   1965      1373    1960    1964       ImBp    298k0
(at cwAntant 130O price.)          ----     ----      ----    ----                --
Grcs. Domestic Product            ..      476      9B4    1237      1275     1323                 -.     12.3      0.2      3.1       3.7
Capaity to Import                 ..      105      170      584      620      575                 .      21.3      3.3      6.3      18.2
!eaumuof Tr.Wde justment          ..                 0       5e       58       64                 ..       .        .        .0      1.5
Gros. Domestic Inmam..                    471      WA      1293     1333      1387                ..     12.5      7.3      3.0      16.0
CromsmRtional?Product             ..       90      976    1157      1290     1303.                       11.6      3.3      8.7       1.0
Gras. NAtLonal Inconme.                   485      976     2245     1369     1367                 .      11.8      6.4      8.3      13.3
--96 -                    0)--------------…(90------Inflation lRat.  C1 p.m.)…------
C. Fries Ildioes,                  1980     1962    1983    1964       IlSSS    1966.          1965-73  197340  1980-84       1955p    1986.
Conmaur Prices (IFS 64)           100.0   119.3   125.2   130.1   134.0   132.7                     ..      12.3      6.6      3.0      -1.0
Wholesale Pricing (3FS 63)        100.0   112.5   117.2   119.0    120.98   120.2                   ..         .      4.3      1.5      -0.3
Iqutteit GDP Deflator             100.0    116.6   117.5   120.5   124.0   122.8                    ..      10.9      4.1      2.9      -1.0
Zaplicit Expen%ditures Deflator    100.0   2116.9   115.5   2118.0    120.7   106.7                 ..      9.9       3.5      1.3    -11.6
D. Dther Indic-ators                     1965-73           1973-BD           19BO-85p          -----------------------
-    ------       -------                 --------                             ----…-         Notes:-
GrowthRates (Ctp.a.)-
Population                                3.0               2.3               3.7
Labor Foras (East Bank only)              4.0               5.2               5.4
Groins NatLonal. Income p.c.               ..9.2                              2.6
Private Conmmiption p.c.                   ..11.0                             6.1
izyorc Elasticity:
Imports (G0S) I GOP (up)                   2. .9                              0.0
Hlarginal Savings Rates-
Cc.. uNtattm2 Saving                       ..               5.4             -73.7
Crams Domeatic SavUig                      ..1.1                            -24.7
I=  (porind averages):                       8.9               3.4               9.1
Share Of Total                     1965     1973    1980      1985p
Labor Force in:                     --      --       --
Agriculture                     36.3    21.1    10.2    14.1
Industry               ~26.5    21.5    25.6    26.7
SunLess                         37.2    52.4    04.2    39.2
Total                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                               - …------ ---------------



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
JO6N -  ONWOMC I10tCATU
:*Lui lnden (1WO a lOO1)                      Val%e at Current Prices Imillions US$)'
E. Merchandise lbporus               PSO    1292      193       194 1U    IMp    1 n"      190       162      1983     1914       I9Sp    1936
_.._........___...... _...................     .. ....                 .....    .. .__.__.    . -.  -.... .....  ...... _....  w._ ..  .. _ ... ..
Vhowphates                         300.0   1S3.5    138.4    179.3   192.9   207.0   153.3    162.4   142.2    131.2    167.9    196.0
Food 1/                            10010    151.2    125.6    140.5   139.7    165.6    1005    128.0    111.8   122.8    116.0    145.9
ChOml,eif     21                   100.0    1".2    106.4    433.6    390.8    324.1    30.7    61.6   101.4    176.1   129.4    104.4
Cawioty 4
Manufatured Oetds 31               IOD.0    94.6      30.9    128.0   103.5    59.2    165.7    23 .6    342.0    275.2    292.4          213.2
0tLhr Deporne
Total MerhandIse Import. 1         100.0   123.2    116.3    174.2    160.9    148.3    402.9    526.6   4*1.0    6?7./   668.6           396.0
P. Nerndie imports
...... ...... h___.... _._.....__.__.__..
owd                                100.0    127.3   123.4    120.5   109.3        91.2    377.6   503.3   412.1    419.5    167.5    299.9
PUL and Other twray                ,OO.0   L53.4    150.2    141.4   127.3    198.6   409.7    63.3   571.4    1541    491.3              341.0
Othr 1sprtg                                                                              1614.0  2061.2  2035.4   1335.3   1849.1   1759.2
Other Ccnstusr oods             100.0   121.1    146.4    146.6   137.1    120.1    427.7   542.1    $72.9    173.2    110.6    86.1
Other InrendLate Goods          100.0   114.1    182.3    192.2   139.1    164.9    358.7    423.2    606.9    633.2    636.1          620.2
Capital Goods                   100.0   123.3    111.4      31.5    05,4       561.3   5277   1110.9   355.6    621 4    663.1    553.9
Total Nerchendi.. ZIorts CII    10O.D   129.0    136.4    126.0   121.1    115.3  2401.6  3242.9  5039.6   2739.3  2729.1   2400.1
C. Terms of Trade (1960 w 100)      1980     1962     1963      1986    2WSp    1986........................
C---------------                    ---      ---      --- (10    D) 19D 16  91  9t 95  10        ------------------------
Notes a
Merch. Empots Price lndex          100.0   125.4    114.6    124.3   132.1    117.6
Murch. Imo    Price Inde           100.0    123.7   11340    116.7   124.0   102.2              11 Includia bevraaee, tobacco  nd edlble
Merchandl Taver  of Trade         100.0   101.4    101.4    105.1    106.6   115.1             oils.
21 Lncludlnas potash.
US$ miLions (sit aurrust prices) a                     31 al1 usports eacept food. $hosphetes and
___________________  ____--        _.__-  _      .-- -      potash.
3.  asno. of Pamsnte                1930     1962     163      194       19B5p    1986
Imports of  oeds and IIS            1576     1896     1758     1936      1979     134D         4A Difference betwen MS fgures and Central
Merchndise (PMB)                  373      751       a0      757       790      657          Bank fgumes.
Pon-Factor Serwlces              1001     1145     1173     1181     1189      1163
Ipoerts of Coods wv! MS            3226      4291     3915     3817     3731      3329
MechadsLe (PM)                   2359     329      3036     2784     2724      2201
Non-Factor Bervices               a28     1052      879     1073     1007      1128
tssourc  34..                      -1650   -2395    -2157    -1919    -1752    -1489
Net Vector Inrun                     -27       24      -44     -191     -223      -302
(lnterest per IJS)                58       62       200       09      153      195
Net Current Tranfers                2052     2035     1812     1039     1722      1604
(uorkwrs romittances)               715      976       999     1113      921     1095
O&rret MAcout Delance                174    -336      -389     -271     -254      -187
Lenr-Tern Capltal Inflow             131      444      651      243      353       262
Dlrect Invstnt                     27       91       24       75       14       63
OfflcLa1 Cpi,tel.rnts               0        0        0        0        0         0
Net LT LAns (DRS dta)            228       347      437      333      119       304
Other LT JnfElos (Not) 41       -124         6      -10     -165      220      -123
Total Ocher Items (Net)            -146      -285       77    -152        -52     -39B
Net Snrt-term CapItal             -19     -122      -19      -75       -3      -33
Capleil Pla    N.C. .               0        0        0        0        0        0
Errors and Omisslons            -129      -163       96      -77      -49      -363
Chns.. Ia Net Dserves              -357       177    -139       180      -47      323
Net Credit from  F                  5        0       10        7        0        0
Other Reseve ene
Ida -  I tes; ltzese)           -362      177      -149      173      -47      3
As shuns of FmD!
Resource Lalnme                 -49.9   -63.9   -55.1   -49.5   -43.6   -32.6
Interet Npcs                     1.7       1.7      2.5      2.3      3.8      4.3
=-r-ent Aecoumt 11e-nc          11.3        -9     -9.9       -7     -6.3    -4.1
)mmotnm  Itmat
r            IsumAti Resev 11       . ( 'S$)    1143      S3       824       515      423        .
- eserves h.l. G"  (mu. 3US$)    1745        1378     1240      842       770
.-:    Offcil I-Rate CPsIUSS)      0.30      0.35     0.36     0.38     0.39      0.36
Index VAn z. i-u u. IWO    ioo.oo   i1S.96   108.03   210.03 109.51                 ..     --------------------
CDP (alls s Of eust 1OS)            3304     378      391S     3873     4016      4546



- 22 -
ANNESX I
Page 3 o0f 3
JIIWI* -ICO1 u C zi0CasT
............... ........................... *,e  .....................................
tavern af GOP IS)                                     Growith Raise (1 Pam.)
J, lse  (epeotfy level)            1930     196      1962l    1914    lOlp    3916.            1960  * m            1994     1911      198G
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ..........  fw..................................... ........_ ...--....*................ ...............
Carant  2omIr 21 0    27.                             3 U".   21.7     3 17.    2.                30.9                2.2      5.2 7     4.3
GtrUE     Riy tt s                 32.1    22. 5     21.9    22.6    34,1       214               10A                 1.0     11.7      -.A
Caent g  dS.t I1.we               -11.2     4.1      -2 1     -4.6    -6.4    -5.9               -19.3              34.b    46.6    -11.1
Calita    1p                        0.       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0               0.*               0.0      0.0        0.0
CapLtal   aitw.a                   20.1    171        15.1    12.5    14.1    11.6                  .               -6.     12.1    -1.4
Overall Delimit                   -31.0   -21. 7    -1160   -106.   -2112   -17.1                 -4.6             -9D.0   -90. I      99.1
Officiul Capital Orat              21.3    15.1      13.6      7.1    12.3       5.6              -2,2             -48.1     62.7    -1. 7
thterml  arni1ng (at)               6.0      4.2      4.3      7.1    10.2       2.4               1. 7             75.1      5. D    -a.?
Umuatle _u-UeJ Pnaeui4              0.3      0.0      0.3      0.6      1.0    -2.5                  .              32421    22.    -349.6
Damn. a"Dud  Pla.ia                 2.9      6.7      0.3      2.6      1.4    10.5              -29.2             91S 0    -41.3    691.0
lNt Diabursaunta (US) mLLilM)                    Debt OCetetndLng    Debunred (MS nLl)
J. trnal CapLtal r,Dbt ........... ...                                                   ..a... -.b.--.-.-
eD  Debt Bud.. RatLos               1960  166     1913     1934    lUp    In6    1360          1632     193      169&     Imnp    193b
.........................~~ .......                             --       ..                ....     .....     ..
hiblLO & bliely O maneed LT         226      247      437      322      119      u3      1279     1643    2220      2467     2693      296
Offieatl CrItora                 224      236      173       79     1i        311     1004     1697     1624     1630     1640      2071
IltLLatal                      52       49       32       2p9    s5         6       1        259      30       231      299       46
oef Wh& E                   22       11       27       22       54       *5       26       36       62      106      139       224
Sf mkhMA                     9        4        2   - I          -1       -1       le       32       64       63      11I        S
Bilateral                     1U2      239      121       50       67       M ,40           1238    1327      1329     1441      1e60
Prlvate Cditoen                   4        se      264      254       -6               276      346      596       37      U53       397
suppllra                       22       36       25       26        0      '21        7      131       S15     174      2 179     in5
FLMMuLaIHakleta               -21        0      239      229       -6       66      239      215      445      64       674       739
Private USuOuerat L                  ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Total LT                            223      347      437      332      119      383     1279     1343    2250    4267       2691      2966
VW  et Cradit                         0       0         0        0       5M                          0        0        0       63         0
et Short-Tem Capital                -12    -132       -19      -75       -3      -33     610       572      563  O 60         917        Ml*
Total inoLudiug IMP L Net ST        20B      225      41B      256      175     3m0      1759    2415      2313     3347     3573      3652
Da   nd IDA Ratios                 19S0     1662     2362     1981     I8       1966          .................... .. . . ..
... .. _ _ _.__ ...... ... ....  _            _ .....   _._-                                  s--- ..  . --- ...  -iNotes:
Share of Jot1a Lang-Ten. DOD
1. rm  se 2 of Total               2.03    32.2      3.72     4.25    5.91      6.87          11 Ini the Debt ServiLs Ratio.., aportes
2. IDA ae Z of Total                5.9    4.45      3.76     3.34     3.03     2.74          Include all uorkere' rettacee.
3. rDIfAMaa   of Total             7.93     7.47     7.43     7.59    8.36    9.61            21 Far 1966 "eltet. eaporto elude
Sare ef Total LT Debt SeyIeee                                                                wudwra' relttaces.
1. 1D3 as 2 af Total                0.6    2.01      2.76     G.t7     4.39     *92
2. IDA a I of Totl                 0.52     0.57     0.57     D.M      0.22     0.30
S. zelltWa    am I of TSal         1.12    2.57      3.33     3.35    5.19      5.22
DE-to-Kapartas Pat.. 2?
1. Lag-Ten Debtprt               n71.73    33.41   109.22   114.91  Z1.4   150.13
2. DVCW   dtllapoate                  0       e         o        e    3ta         °
3. Sart-Ten Debtlluports          26.94   25.69    23.55    39.76    62.0*.   41.72
4. LT+DU+ST DWIEuports            36.72   109.3  137.77   134.74   168.35  129h.85
DOD-to-GoDP Rwtia
1. Lug-Tem DebtlCDP               36.72   49.16    56.92    64.11    67.06   65.29
2. IF CrdtlCDP                        0        0        0        0    1.57         0
3. Short-TerbebtID                14.53   15.26    14.80   22.17    22.64    19.45
a. L'flDfU   D3D/0C6              53.24    64.42     71.8   66.23    91.46   34.74
Debt SIa 3aflqena 1f
.P 1ubULe a   Omee  LT              5.3     6.1       6.9      7.4    15.5    13.7
2. irtute Nm _-Cnratmd LT            ..       ..
3. Total sec     Dbt  Sawtc         5.       6.1      3.9      7.4    13.5      13.
4.   ampur*aeeat + Sara Owg.
5n. ternet Oly i ST Debt
6. Totel (14DIUST MOt-)



@0''     ~' 'F' C,+.*:'
: * X  / I    .                   ~~~~~~~23
-                                        -23-^ '-                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1987)
--US$ Million--------
Loan or                                                         Amount
Ored4 t(less cancellations)
K ube'~..  Year    Borrower        Purpose             Bank/IDA      Undisbursed
15 credits/4.loens  Jordan
* .       fully disbursed                                      161.2                 -
1893     l980                 Urban Development        20.6                5.0
1986     1981.                Power IV                 25.0                0.9
2068     1982 d/      "       Education IV             25.0                8.3
2162  ,. 1982                 Power V                  35.0                5.9
2213 -,'* 1983                Water Supply and
Sewerage               17.0                4.7
2' 2246   \'1983 dl            Education V               18.8               11.7
Z334     1984                 Urban Transport          30.0               24.3
-2371    1984          "      Energy Devt. I           30.0                 8.1
. 2378   1984 d/              Education VI             40.0                32.2
2425     1984                 Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                5.2
.2463   -.1985         "      Multi-Mode
---,3  1985 -.Transport                              30.0               26.7
* '   1-'2483    1985          "      Greater Amman
Water Supply
-  ...   . -  .'  and Sewerage           30.0                5.2
2531     1985         "       Primary Health Care      13.5               13.0
'2587     1.985               Urban Development II    28.0                 26.7
'-2614    1986                CVDB rI                  15.0                13.7
2633     1986                 Manpower Devt.           10.2                9.5
2694     1986                 Water Supply and
Sewerage               50.0                43.7
2710    1i986                 Power VI                 27.5               27.5
2786 c,' 1987                 Potash II                12.0               12.0
'Total b                                               648.8              284.3
of which has been repaid                              91.0
Total now outstanding                                 557.8
'   Total Undi3bursed                                                        284.3
a/  The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
*         c/. Not yet effective.
d/  Education IV and Education V loans are substantially committed.  Bidding
under Education VI loan is progressing.



.24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1987)
-----US$ Million---
Year           Obligtor          Type of Business        Loan    Eqzuity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.             Ceramic Tiles             1.6       0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. CO.             Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5±'    8.7         88.2k'"
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials        2.5       1.3       3.8
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                             0.7       0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                             0.3       0.3
Total Commitmnents                             83.6kL' 11.2        94.8L
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancel led                                     63.9k'  9.          73.2k'/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   i9.7       1.9       21.6
Total Undisbursed                                 -        -          -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by agency to prepare the         13 months (Kay 1985 to June
project:                                    1986)
(b)   Agencies which prepared the project:        Jordan Electricity Authority
(JEA)
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank:    Kay 1985
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:    June 27, 1986
Ce)   Date of completion of negotiations:         Kay 5, 1987
Cf)   Planned date of effectiveness:              November 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
1. Signing of loan agreements with the cofinanciers for about $85 million to
secure the foreign exchange gap would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan (para. 43).
Other Conditions
1.  The Government and the Bank shall exchange views on the policies of
pricing of petroleum products and electricity and on its plans for the
development of the energy sector (paras. 23 and 31);
2.  The Government shall implement a five-year program to reduce power system
losses (para. 29);
3.  Government and JEA shall take all required measures to enable JEA to
maintain self-financing level of not less than 25 percent for 1987, 30
percent for 1988 and 35 percent in each year thereafter (para. 52);
4.  Government and JEA shall review the adequacy of revenues to produce, on
the basis of a forecast satisfactory to the Bank, the agreed
self-financing levels for the following year and take the measures
required to achieve the agreed level (para. 53);
5.  The Bank and JEA shall exchange views on alternative uses of fuel in the
generation of electricity to ensure the most economic operation of the
power facilities provided under the project (para. 41);
-:    - - ..



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
6.   JEA to stay within agreed debt limitation covenants (para. 51);
7.   JEA would ensure the project facilities are operated in accordance with
sound environmental procedures (para. 50); and
8.   The Government shall prepare and furnish to the Bank the technical
designs and engineering for a multipurpose jetty at Aqaba (para. 48).



:]   . - .s  y  ,w,   , -    #       _             _                          .           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBROtl
000 (                           UAgIA                        SYR I AN 
ARAB
.1                            -.             ~~~~~~REPUBLIC 
i /? A T SEVENTH POWER PROJECT-AQABA It
;'& -9 no Z ~MAIN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
.w .3 K32 ,                                     - u m u
Ir commanision\ U
.iF   \   t   t                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In Opwatlon
fl~~~~ W73u33hicfln Unn
Tdll O   S  @ |~~~~~~~ 230kW Trn.nI,lr UnY
132 kV Tnnbbn Un
66 W T -T   W.  , T   Un.
4  .   / \    Z     Z                               O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    hbIbr w
o    QOir, Town. Vilkg..
0  ,{   I   U     {                    ,                   h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aioa HIgvabs
\ ~ ~~~~~~             ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  JF.-'-  n-7
Second OCks Rood,
t 1 {/       /            -- 
WCdis
MM    OwCOWTunaroes
/   \   sr s             ,;}                      w~/ 
to  M  a        soI                                S . 
'. 0 \A                                                         , /  -   .MaL,  -  .
-  X 4   q   r!  20  u  eo  s  a   w              /               w    _        tv- ,eoo.        -i
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A
-4-::- :S                                                -                          '                         "BLER im, ° - - wn'  I
.. - :- S - ~-... U..... /                    _S-:v' i ^     ,I
5.    k  .  _.,_             /                        _     _                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCOBER 1:98:6 g'    
_ _- - --i *  -7.- ' ,'~ !






