Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8027-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUIJM-i RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 17, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operating Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their officiild duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoriaon.



0I
i
I
I
I
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1989)
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       = Rp 1,770
Rp 1 million - US$565
I                                            FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAKN                   Civil Service Administrative Body
BAKOSURTANAL        - National Coordinating Agency for Survey and Mapping
Bank Negara
Indonesia         -  State Ban': of Indonesia
BAPPEDA             -  Provinciil and Local Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS            - National Development Planning Agency
BATAN               _  National Atomic Energy Agency
BKPM                - Agency for Foreign Investment
BPLK                -  Center for Finance Education and Training
BPPI                -  Industrial Research and Development Agency (Ministry of
Industry)
BPPT                - Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology
BPS                 - Central Bureau of Statistics
BUMNS               -  State Enterprises
DEPAG               - Ministry of Religion
DEPDAGRI            - Ministry of Home Affairs
DEPERDAG            - Ministry of Trade
DEPERIND            - Ministry of Industry
DEPHUT              - Ministry of Forestry
DEPKEH              - Ministry of Justice
DEPKES              - Ministry of Health
DEPLU               - Ministry of Foreign Affairs
DEPPEN              - Ministry of Information
DEPSOS              - Ministry of Social Affairs
DEPTAN              - Ministry of Agriculture
DEPTRANS            - Ministry of Transmigration
DGHE                - Director General Higher Education
DPU                 - Ministry of Public Works
DRN                 - National Council for Research
HRD                 - Human Resource Development
IKIPs               -  Teacher Training Institutes
IUC                 -  Inter University Center
KAJAGUNG            - Attorney General
KLH                 - Ministry of Environment
LAN                 - National Institute of Public Administration
LAPAN               - National Institute of Aeronautics and Space
LIPI                -  Indonesian Institute of Sciences
LPND                - Non-Departmental Government Research Institute
LSM                 - Non-Governmental Organization
i  This document has a etn   distdrbution and may be used by mecipits only in the peforfmace
l ~~~~of their ofAcia duties Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Wodd Ban  uthordzation.



MENPAN              -  Stato Ministry of Utilization of State Apparatus
MENRISTEK           - Ministry of State for Research and Technology
MOEC/DEPDIKBUD      - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF/DEPKEU          - Ministry of Finance
MOMIDEPNAKER        - Ministry of Manpower
NACOT               - National Committee for Overseas Training
NASTOT              - National Steering Team for Overseas Training
OECF                -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OFP                 - Overseas Fellowship Program
OFPIU               - Overseas Fellow-ship Program Implementation Unit
OTO                 - Overseas Training Office
PARPOSTEL           - Ministry of Tourism, Post and Telecommunication
PT PERUM DHANA      - Explosives Industry
PT INKA             - Railway Industry
PT INTI             -  Telecommunications Industry
PT IPTN             - Aircraft and Aerospace Industry
PT PAL              -  Indonesian Shipbuilding Industry
PT PINDAD           - Heavy Engireering Industry
PTS                 - Private Universities
PUSAT LEN LIPI      - National -ngineering Laboratory
PUSPIPTEK           - National Center for Research and Technology
REPELITA            - National Five Year Development Plan
SO                  - Nondegree (Diploma level) Program
Si                  - Undergraduate Degree Program (Bachelor)
S2                  - Masters Degree
S3                  - Doctorate Degree
SDPIS               -  Secretariat to the Ministerial Council on Strategic
Industries
SEKNEG              -  State Secretariat
SME                 -  Small and Medium Enterprises
STAID               -  Science and Technology for Industrial Development
TPA                 - Academic Potential Test
USAID               - United States Agency for International Development



INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCS DEVZLOPMENT PROJECT
Table of CoiAtents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECTSMSUMARY ........................... ........O     iv
I.  BACKGROUND. ISSUES AND STRATEGY .............................       1
Background .............................                            1
The Labor Market for Professional, Technical and
Managerial Stafff.                                              1
Professional Staff Supply.. . ...............                       2
Research and Technologyc h n o l og.. ...  4.   ....        .4
Issues  ...4.........0    ........    s..    ...6
Government Strategy ........... ................... ........        7
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Project .....................       a
II.  THE PROJECT. ....  .     .     ...... .......O                     10
Project Objectives and Content.tn ... . .     ..10
A.  Improved Planning and Management of Human Resource
Development (HiD)         ...................  .........     11
Improved HRD Policymaking, Planning
and Implementation         .      ............. .         11
Improved Overseas Training Policy and Management            12
B. 'Professional and Man'agerial Staff Development .12
Overseas Training Office (OTO) Fellowship Program....       12
Finance Trainingaig... ....    14
C. Science and Technology for Industrial Development
(STAD) ...                                                  15
Improvement in Science and Technology Policy
Analysis and Hanagement   .            .15
Science and Technology Staff Development
and Training  . .16
OECF Support for Professional Human Rescurce Development
and Science and Technology   ... . ...................         17
Fellowship Selection, Placement and -eentry Procedures             18
The Private Sector and Overseas Training .18
Consultant and Specialist Services .18
Project Mlanagement...........                                     19
Status of Project Preparation .......................20
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission which visited
Indonese! in March 1989 comprising G. Hunting (Technical Educator, Mission
Leader), Chira Hongladorai  (Economist, Consultant), Chong Ouk Lee (Science and
Technology Specialist, Consultant) and Caroline Bayulken (Operations
Assistant); and an Appraisal Mission which visited Indonesia JunelJuly 1989
comprising G. Hunting (Mission Leader), 'shong Ouk Lee (Consultant) and A.
D'Souza (Temporary Research Assistant).



- ii -
Page No.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND
ACCOUNTS..... ..... ,.... ..*.** .... .       *...             21
Cost Estimates and F.aancing ...      .......................  .   21
Procurement      ......    *    *.... *.* . ............ ... .. . .   ..  . .   ....  ..  24
T1isbursement ............. . . ...................... ........    24
Accounts and Audit ..........................................      29
NVo BENEFITS AND R        I SRS.........                                29
V.  AGREEMESS REACHED AND REC0        MMENDATIONS .........            30
TABLES IN REPORT
1. Sum_ary of Project Cost by Component
2.  SUmmary of Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
3. Financing Plan
4.  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category
5.  Disbursement Forecasts
ANNXS
1. Employment and Education, 1988/93
2. Civil Service Career Structure and Functional Positions
Table 1. Composition of Civil Service, February 1988
Table 2. Functional Structure for Research Workers
3. The Domestic University System
Table 1. University Enrollment Projections 1988189 - 1993/94
Table 2. Activities of Inter University Centers 1988
4. Overseas Training
Table 1. Fellowships for Overseas Training included in
World Bank Loan Projects, 1976-88
Table 2.    Bilateral Assisted Graduate Level Overseas
Fellowships by Country, 1985-87
S. Organization and Staffing of Research and Technology in Indonesia
Table 1. Staffing of Non-Departmental Research Institutes
Table 2. Staffing of Strategic Industries
Chart 1.  Organization of Science and Technology in Indonesia
Chart 2. Organization of Agency for Evaluation and Application
of Technology (BPPT)



- 1ii -
6. Overseas Training Office
Table 1. Summary of Proposed Research Program 1990-94
Table 2. Indicative Targets for Fellowship Program--Priorities
and Key Ministries and Agencies 1990/91 - 1993/94
7. Finance Training (Ministry of Finance)s Initial Targets
for Fellowship Program 1989/90 - 1993194
8. Science and Technology for Industrial Development (STAID): Outline
Terms of Reference for Systems Development Planning Studies
9.  STAID Fellvwship Program 1990/91 - 1993/94
10.  Summary of Consultant Services 1990191 - 1993/94
11. Project Management
Table 1.  Staffing of OTO:  Present and 1993/94
Table 2.  Staffing for STAID Program Implementation
Table 3.  Status of Preparation
Table 4. Key Indicators for Monitoring of Performance
Chart 1. Human Resource Policy and Planning and
Overseas Training Office (OTO)
Chart 2.  STAID Organization
Chart 3.  Schedule of Implementation
12. Project Costs
Table 1.  Estimated Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
and Component
Table 2. Estimated Project Costs by Year
Table 3. Summary of Unit Costs for Training
Table 4. Estimated Project Costs by Source of Finance and
Management Unit and by Component and Category of
Expenditure
13. Selected Documents in the Project File.
MMt IBRD Map No. 21853



- iv -
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers              Republic of Indonesia
Amounts                US$117.5 million equivalent
Termss                 Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Proiect Descriptions  The objective of the project is to improve human
resource development policy making, planning and imple-
mentation; improve the quality of professional, tech-
nical and managerial staff to ensure improved perform-
ance in policy making and implementation in critical
areas of economic development concerned with growth with
sustainable development, industrialization, increasing
private sector participation and decentralization, and
improve the quality of scientific and technological
research and development, enhance its management and
improve the application of research and technology to
industrial development. The project would supports
(a) improvement of Human Resource Development (HRD)
policymaking, planning and monitoring at central, pro-
vincial and local government levels; (b) strengthening
of the Overseas Training Office; (c) an overseas post-
graduate fellowship program for about 1,100 key staff in
central government agencies, provincial and local
governments, private universities and non-governmental
organization; (d) a program of about 300 fe'llowships for
overseas and domestic postgraduate training in finance
and monetary policy for staff of the Ministry of Finance
and related agencies; (e) strengthening of science &
technology policy analysis and management; and (f) a
program of 370 domestic and 780 overseas fellowships in
science, technology and management for staff of govern-
ment research institutes and strategic industries.
Benefits and Risks:   The main benefits expected from tne project would be
(a) the long-term improvement in policy analysis, formu-
lation and implementation; (b) improved training and
skills of key staff; (c) improved career structures and
utilization of scientists and technologists; and (d) im-
proved systems and procedures for science and technology
policymaking and identification of science and tech-
nology priorities for industrial development.  Another
important benefit would be the integration and improved
coordination of high-level staff development and improv-
ed overseas training. The main risk is the possibility
that expectations and potential of overseas trained



-v -
professional staff might not be matched by employment
opportunities, incentives and rewards in goverrment
service. However, the close relationship between train-
ing and priority institutional needs and the steps taken
to improve career development would lessen this risk.



- vi 
Estimated Co ts:
Local     Forsimn   Total
-~--- 'Us  million) -----
Improved Planning and Management of Human
Resource Development
Improved HRD Policymaking, Planning
and Implementation                      2.4         &.4     6.8
Improved Overseas Training Policy
and Management                         0.9          2.8     3.7
Improved Facilities for the Overseas
Training Office                         3.2         3.4     6.6
Subtotal                            6.5         10.6    17.1
*          Professional and Managerial Staff DeveloPment
!                   OTO Fellowship Program                   10.8         33.4    44.2
Finance Training                          5.7        14.3    20.0
Subtotal                           16.5         47.7    64.2
Science and Technolog- for Indtistrial Develogent
Improvement in S&T Policy Analysis a1d
Management                              4.2        10.7    14.9
S&T Staff Development and Training       18.5        32.5    51.0
Subtotal                           22.7         43.2    65.9
]                  ~~~~~~Base Cost                     45.7       101.3   147.2
Physical Contingencies                   0.8         2.3     3.1
Price Contingencieu                       4.8        13.7    18.5
Total Cost la                      31.- 117.-   168.8
Financing Plan:
Local     PoreiAn  Total
---- (US$ million) --…-
Government of Indonesia                  51.3         -      51.3
IBRD                                      -         117.5   117.5
51.3       117.5   168.8
la Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.2 millica equivalent.



- vii -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank FY      1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995
Annual     3.0       15.0      22.0       25.0      25.0       27.5
Cumulative 3.0       18.0      40.0       65.0      90.0     117.5
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.
Ma: IBRD No. 21853



- 2 -
growth over the 1975/85 period is the relative youth of the civil services in
1988 nearly 60Z of civil servants had less than ten years 'f experience and
about 50S were under 35 years of age. It is these graduates of under 35 who
constitute the pool for advanced education and training (Annex 2, Table 1).
1.4      The majority of civil servants do not have a satisfactory career
structure. Civil servants are graded according to qualification and length of
service on a 17-st p scale. Within the organizational structure, the posts of
management responsibility have echelon designations en a 10-step sca:e. There
is a loose relationship between the echelon level and staff grade rankings,
but only about 72 of eivil servants have echelon posts and this is significant
in terms of compensation and other benefits. Civil service compensation has
three major components: basic salary and alJowance determined by grade; sup-
plementary salary and allowance based on echelon position; and additional
payments such as honoraria and expenses for project work. Supplements and
additional payments can far outweigh the low basic salaries, but only a few
civil servants benefit from them.
1.5      Functional positions and scales are being created to proride career
structures for professional and technical staff, and are already in place for
research workers, university teachers and physicians and nearly 20 other spe-
cialiat groups, but account for only about 61 of civil servants. There are
about 1,800 researchers on the nine-step functional scale which was created in
1983 to provide a professional career ladder with performance-based promotion
assessed at two-yearly lotervals against published criteria. The functional
scale carzies salary Lli--ements and allowances similar to those for the
echelon positions (Annex 2, Table 2).
1.6      Women in the Civil Service.  Of the 3.5 million civil servants in
1988, there were 1.1 million (31X) women. About 9? of the women had post-
secondary educational qualifications, compared with 112 of the men, but in
terms of seniority their position was unfavorable. Of the 200,000 structural
positions, only 112 were occupied by women, and of the 15,000 senior manage-
ment posts, women occupied only 51.
Professional Staff Supply
1.7      Human Resource Development (HRD) Policy and Planning.  HRD policy and
planning responsibilities are shared between a number of bodies. The Office
of the Ministry for Utilization of State Apparatus (MENPAN) is responsible for
organizational and occupational structure of the civil service and, with the
Civil Service Administrative Body (BARN), authorizes posts and appointments.
The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) has overall responsibility
for manpower planning and development policies, and within BAPPENAS there are
lines of responsibility through three deputy chairmen: for the Social Sector
(Education), Manpower and Natural Resources, and Administration (particularly
in respect of administration of overseas training). The Ministry of Education
and Culture (MOEC) is responsible for planning the formal education system;
the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) collects and analyzes labor market information
and is respcnsible for ERD planning for the private sector. WithJn BAPPENAS
an informal working party has acted as a forum for exchange of information
between the agencies concerned with ERD planning.



INDONESTA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
Background
1.1      Introduction.  The quality of Indonesia's professional, technical and
management staff will be a critical factor for the successful implementation
of medium- and long-term development strategies. Successful implementation of
deregulation, decentralization and increased privatization call for important
changes in the role of the civil service and new responsibilities, skills and
attitudes of civil servants. Furthermore, to sustain increases in
manufactured exports, it will be necessary to improve the productivity and
competitiveuess of industry through higher levels of technology, and better-
qualified technical staff and managers.
The Labor Market for Professional, Technical and Managerial Staff
1.2      Projections of occupational demand prepared by BAPPENAS, based on
estimates of sectoral output growth, indicate substantial increased demand for
high- and medium-level skills in the professional, technical and related occu-
pations over the 1988-1993 period (Annex 1). A more important projected
change over the period is the expected improvement in the level of educational
qualification of the labor market, particularly for the professional, techni-
cal and management occupations. The educational level of Indonesia's labor
force is relatively low compared with its competitors in the region. In 1988,
there were estimated to be about 700,000 diploma and degree holders in the
labor force, i.e., 1t 3f the total, compared with 10X graduates in Korea
(1983) and 131 in Taiwan (1986). Over 701 of the diploma and degree holders
were in the civil service in 1988 where they represented 14Z of employment.
The number of persons with postgraduate education and training is not known
but, based on tne supply from the domestic university system and the programs
of training overseas, it is estimated to be only of the order of 15,000.
Although there is no rigid relationship between occupational classification
and formal education, professional, technical and management staff in critical
senior posts normally require postgraduate training and education, and this
cannot be obtained through regular on-the-job experience when the roles and
demands of the jobs are changing.  Formal postgraduate training, particularly
through a combination of study and related industrial or business experience,
is a powerful method of developing professional staff with new attitudes and
approaches.
1.3      The Civil Service Profession.  Growth of the civil service was rapid
over the period 1975-85. In 1988, there were about 3.5 million civil ser-
vants, of whom 1.5 million were teachers. Authorized annual growth was
reduced to about 3? in 1986/87 and for 1989/90 the growth through 'formation'
of new posts is to be only 22. Of the 77,000 new posts nearly 801 are for
teachers, to support the expansion of basic education, asId nurses and
midwives. Many Ministries will have no growth. A consequence of the rapid



1.8      Suppl- from the Domestic University System. The domestic university
system expanded rapidly over the decade from 1975 with enrollments increasing
from 126,000 in 1975 to 1,410,000 in 1986, i.e., an average annual growth of
about 45Z. The private university system, which is regulated and assisted by
the Government, has also grown rapidly and is responsible for about 60Z of
total enrollments. The main thrust of the Government's strategy has shifted
to raising the quality and improving the efficiency of the university system.
Enrollments are expected to incr*Ase only from 1,570,000 in 1988/89 to
2,347,000 by the end of REPELITA V, 1993/94, i.e., about 8S annually,
(Annex 3, Table 1). Enrollments in mathematics, science and engineering were
only 20S of the total in 1975, but increased to about 30S of enrollments in
1988.
1.9      Postgraduate programs started in Indonesia only in 1975 and are cur-
rently offered in seven state universities and three Teachers' Training
Institutes (IKIPs), with a total enrollment of about 3,500 in S2 (Masters
degree) programs and 450 in S3 (Doctoral) programs, and an annual intake of
about 2,000 S2 and 200 S3 candidates. The majority of S2 and S3 candidates
are university teachers on Government sponsorship, whose upgrading is the
Government's top priority in order to raise the quality of univers'ty
teaching. In 1987 only about 20Z of university teachers had post graduate
qualifications. In five leading universities, 16 specialist Inter-University
Centers (IUCs) for postgraduate study and research are being set ur with
assistance of the Second UniversIty Development Project (Loan 2547-IND).
Their work is focused on nondegree courses and research programs for univer-
sity staff (Annex 3, Table 2). Enrollment in postgraduate programs in tech-
nology are low, particularly in the branches of engineering related to the
manufacturing industry. In three leading universities, new enrollments in
1988/89 in S2 and S3 programs in mechanical, electrical and chemical
engineering represented only 4? of those universities' postgraduate enroll-
ments.
1.10     Overseas Training.  Over the past few years, the Government has
developed a strong program of loan and grant-financed overseas training for
its staff, and currently more than 2,500 Indonesians are sent overseas annu-
ally at a cost of about US$85 million. Over the period 1976-88 Bank-assisted
projects have supported about 4,000 overseas fellowships for degree and post-
graduate courses, mainly in the fields of university teaching, science and
technology (research), agriculture and health and including project related
training (Annex 4, Table 1). An average of about 400 fellowships for post-
graduate degree courses are provided annually with bilateral assistance (Annex
4, Table 2). In 1982, the Government set up an Overseas Training Office
(OTO), with USAID and Bank assistance, to advise on national policy on over-
seas training and to administer a general program of overseas training, and
establish effective selection and placement operations and programs of English
language and academic preparation of candidates. A program of fellowships
financed by the Canadian Government also started in 1989 administered by OTO.
Through the OTO about 600 fellows have been placed in courses overseas and 300
have returned after completing training.
1.11     Although the OTO has overall responsibility for advice on policy on
overseas training it shares responsibility for managing overseas training with
a number of strong sector-specific overseas fellowship programs. For example,



-4-
about 1A8fl staff of the nondepartmental government science research
institutes (LPNDs) are being trained overseas in a program which started in
1985 with Bank support (Science and Technology Training Project: Loan No.
2599-MID). Since 1981 the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has provided training for
about 200 staff of the Ministry, the state banks and for staff in finance
positions in other ministries and agencies. The Ministry of Education also
manages a large program of overseas training. which since 1981 has sent about
1,500 staff of the Ministry, the universities and teacher training institutes
overseas on Masters and Ph.D. programs.
1.12     The three fellowship programs to be supported by the proposed
project, i.e., the OTO program, the Science & Technology Overseas Fellowship
Program (OFP) and the MOP Sectoral Training Program, adopt rigorous procedures
for selection of candidates. Candidates undergo competitive attainment and
aptitude examinations, personality tests and interview. Candidates must also
achieve the standard of language proficiency required by the overseas
university system before starting overseas academic training.
1.13     The OFP is notable in placing fellows in 13 countries, with the larg-
est groups in the USA, UK, Germany, Holland and Japan. The OTO and MOF
training has been mainly in the USA, reflecting the source of fellowship
funding, but under the proposed project fellows will be placed in a wide range
of countries. All three programs employ overseas support agencies to assist
with follow-up of placement, monitoring and administration of payments but
each has made good progress in building up an organization and staffing to
manage its fellowship program.
1.14     Considerable attention is also being given to re-entry after return
from training. The re-entry programs include monitoring of the employment and
experience of fellows after return. The OFP arranges a regular program of
seminars for returned fellows and their supervisors, follows up through ques-
tionnaires and shares information through a newsletter.
1.15     Evidence from a aumber of follow-up studies confirms the value of
overseas training. The findings of these studies, which are summarized in
annex 4, show that overseas training contributed significantly to subsequent
careers. The majority of returned fellows also reported positively on the use
of skills acquired overseas. There has been very little "brain-drain' through
overseas training, experience shows more than 972 of fellows return to
Indonesia after craining.
Research and Technology 1/
1.16     The Minister of State for Research and Technology is responsible for
the formulation of government policy on research and on the application of
research and technology to support national development. He also coordinates
the research and technology activities of Government agencies and the opera-
tions of the nondepartmental government research institutes (LPNDs). The
1/ In the context of discussion of economic development in Indonesia, the
term 'research and technology' is used synonymously with 'Science and
Technology' (S&T).



Minister also chairs the National Research Council and the Agency for Assess-
ment and Application of Technology (BPPT) (Annex 5, Chart 1).
1.17     The National Research Council (DRN) advises the Minister of State on
national research policy and monitors the implemeAtation of research programs.
The DRN Las about 60 members, notable for their contribution to research, and
drawn from government departments and research institutes and from univer-
sities. The staff of the Office of the Minister of State for Research and
Technology is small in number a * the Ministry's main operations are carried
out by the six LPNDs: Agency f,_* Assessment and Application of Technology
(BPPT); Central Bureau of Statistics (BPS); Indonesian Institute of Sciences
(LIPI); National Atomic Energy Authority (BATAN); National Coordinating Agency
for Survey and Mapping (BAKOSURTANAL); snd National Institute for Aeronautics
and Space (LAPAN). They have a total of about 21,000 employees, of whom 3,900
are graduates, but only 450 or 2.12 have postgraduate qualifications (Annex 5,
Table 1). BPPT is the key agency for formulating policy on the application of
technology for national development and the coordination of its execution and
evaluation. BPPT's functions include assessment, application and development
of technology in industry; encouragement of cooperation between the government
and private sector; and development of scientific and technical personnel. It
also carries out research and development in its own laboratories (Annex 5,
Chart 2). Currently, BPPT has about 2,300 staff, of whom about 1,100 are
graduates but only 50 have postgraduate qualifications. About 700 BPPT staff
are in training overseas. Of the 2,300 staff, only 245 occupy echelon posts
and about 90 occupy functional positions.
1.18     The National Center for Research and Technology (PUSPIPTEK) at
Serpong (outside Jakarta) has the main concentration of scientific and tech-
nological research in Indonesia and comp-ises a complex of laboratories
operated by BATAN, BPPT and LIPI, together with central and supporting ser-
vices. Adjoining areas have been reserved for advanced education and for a
proposed Science-Based Industrial Park. There are about 3,000 staff working
in PUSPIPTEK.
1.19     The Ministry of Industry's Agency for Industrial Research and
Development (BPPI) is responsible for coordinating the activities of nine
sectoral research institutes, ten regional testing laboratories and five
industrial research and test centers. BPPI also has four centers fors indus-
trial research; industrial engineering; industrial climate development; and
industrial promotion. Each of the other main government departments also has
a research center.
1.20     Research expenditure in the universities is estimated to represent
less than about 52 of total university expenditure, but most of the research
is concentrated in the ten major universities. The univcrities are not yet a
major source of research and technology development for industry.
1.21     As a result of government investment in upstream and high technology
industrial development over the period of the 1970s and early 1980s, the pub-
lic sector enterprises have the main concentration of technological develop-
ment. The following strategic industries are coordinated by the Minister of
State for Research and Technology through a Council on Strategic Industries:
Indonesian Aircraft and Aerospace Industry (PT IPTN); Indonesian Shipbuilding



-6
Industry (PT PAL)t Telecomunication Industry (PT INTI); PT Krakatau Steel;
Railway Industry (PT INtA)s Heavy En neosring Industry (PT PINAD); Explosives
Industry (PT PERUM DRAN); and the Notional Engineering Laboratory (LENLIPI).
These industries have a total employment of about 35,000, :acluding 2,900
university graduates (Annex 5, Table 2). These industries have a strong
comitment to staff training, but they have inadequate finance particularly
for postgraduate level and overseas training.
1.22     The total GOI budget allocated to research and science and technology
over REPELITA V (1989190 to 1993194) is about Rp 2.600 billica (US$1,500 mil-
lion), equivalent to about 0.25? of GNP. About 607 is allocated to the devel-
opment of science and technology and to technological applications in
industry. There is reported to be relatively little private sector research
and technology developmeat, but the Government has stated its intention in
REPELITA V to encourage tdhe increased use and participation of research in the
private sector. and to increase the epin-off to private industry from the
public enterprises.
Issues
1.23     Three issues emrge from the preceding discussions  (a) the need to
strengthen policy and Institutional aspects of human resource development and
science and tecbnology; (b) the relatively low level of qualification of pro-
fessional, technical and management staffs and (c) inadequate supply from
domestic postgraduate training.
1.24     Policy and Institutional Aspects.  Human resource development
planning is fragmented. There is a need to institutionalize and support the
coordinatlon In SAPPENAS of long-term HRD planning and policy formulation,
Including policy on allocation of Investment in different levels of education
and training and system of professional, technical and related manpower
development. Policies also need to be determined for increasing the partici-
pation of the private sector in professional staff development and for
liproving cost sharing and cost recovery for specialist training, particularly
overseas training.
1.25     There is also need to strengthen the coordination of the Government's
investment In science ad technology between the nondepartmental research
institutes, the departmental research centers, including those under the Min-
istry of Industry, and research in the universities. Although the National
Research Council advises the Minister of State on the total program of
research, it lacks resources and teeth. There is also a lack of timely col-
lection and reporting of information on research activities and outputs.
Links between the Government research centers and industry need to be
strengthened; and the means determined to increase the private sector's parti-
cipation in research, to increase application of technology in industry, and
to spin off new private ventures from the public enterprises.
1.26     Quality of Professional, Technical and Management Staff. The civil
service has an unduly large share of staff with post-secondary qualifications
compared vith the share In the private sector and the issue is not one of an
expected shortage of staff in the public sector but rather their lack of
specialist skills and qualifications, and distortions in employment. An



important issue arises from the changing role of Government, including the
need for civil servants to implement policies for deregulation to facilitate
private sector development and stimulate trade and business rather than to
regulate and control, which has been the traditional role of the civil
service. Other key issues are the serious under-representation of women in
management in the public sector, the continuing need for staff to develop and
implement financial policies, and the need to improve significantly the
capability of staff in provincial and local government in order to implement
policies for deconcentration and decentralization. A related issue is the
relatively large use of expatriate consultants, particularly in loan-financed
projects. For example, the commitment to foreign consultant services in World
Bank Projects over the period 1976-80 is estimated to cost about US$80 million
per year.
1.27     The proportion of well-qualified technologists and engineers in the
labor force is low, particularly in view of the Government's policy for the
development of the manufacturing industry, and the quality of staff engaged in
scientific and technical research and development also needs to be improved.
Environmental engineers are also needed to implement Government policies for
improved environmental management.
1.28     The employment and utilization of professional and technical staff in
the public sector needs to be made more efficient.  Career structures need to
be improved for professional staff and the introduction of functional struc-
tures accelerated so that performance-based promotiod can be established, and
salaries and allowances improved and related to performance.
1.29     Domestic Supply of Postgraduate Trained Professional and Technical
Staff. The capacity of the domestic university system to meet the needs of
the labor market in postgraduate education and training is inadequate. Not
only is the system small, but it is focused on the postgraduate training of
university staff, recognized as a necessary priority in order to improve the
quality of university teachers. Additional investment and increased recurrent
expenditure is also required to improve the supply of equipment, materials,
teaching and other support in order to raise the quality of post graduate
courses and research.
Government Strategy
1.30     The Government's strategy for economic development includes the fol-
lowing four themess (a) growth through completing the agenda of structural
reforms, enhancing industrialization and increasing exports of non-oil manu-
factured goods; (b) wider participation in development by the private sector,
provincial and local governments, nongovernment organizations and by women;
(c) targetted programs of poverty reduction; and (d) sustainable development
through protection and management of environmental assets and continuLed atten-
tion to institutional and human resource development. A key factor on
successful implementation of this ambitious program will be improving the
capability of professional, technical and managerial staff.
1.31     To assist the achievement of its policy for full employment and
better distribution and utilization of human resources, the Government intends
to strengthen the labor market and human resource information systems, and
l



improve policymaking, planning and implementation procedures at national,
provincial and local government levels.
1.32     The Government's strategy for professional human resource development
focuses as a first priority on raising the quality of teaching in the state
universities, particularly in science and technology, upgrading university
management and improving efficiency. As an important part of this strategy,
the postgraduate programs are concentrated mainly on university teachers. The
target for REPELITA V is to enroll about 25,000 teachers in Masters (S2) and
PhD (S3) programs over the five-year period, which is almost double the pre-
sent capacity of domestic postgraduate courses. Private universities, which
provide about 60Z -if undergraduate (S1) enrollment, are receiving support from
the Government, pare:icularly by providing training fellowships to raise the
quality of teachers. A key element in Government policy is a recent proposal
to grant autonomy to the state universities. The details are currently being
worked out but the outcomes are expected to include closer links between the
universities and the private sector, leading to the development of specialist
training and research to meet industry's need, for which the cost would be
paid by industry.
1.33     To meet needs for senior professional staff with advanced and
speciaList qualifications, the Government has mounted a large program of over-
seas postgraduate training, particularly for public sector staff and funded by
a wide range of loans and grants, and currently estimated to cost about US$85
million annually (paras. 1.11 to 1.17). The Government intends, through the
development and expansion of the OTO, to establish clear policy guidelines for
overseas study covering selection, predeparture preparation, placement, moni-
torislg and administration of the programs in order to obtain maximum benefit
from the investments. The OTO is expected to play an increasingly important
role in the coordination of overseas training, including taking responsibility
for programs of cross-sectoral training, such as public policy and public
administration. In parallel with raising the qvality of professional and
technical staff, the Government is developing functional career structures
which provide the basis for regular assessment of performance for career pro-
motion, better salaries and increased efficiency.
1.34     Government strategy in the field of science and technology is to
improve planning and management, increase and enhance the quality of research
and development, strengthen links between research and industry, and to
encourage the private sector to increase its participation in research and the
application of technology. The industrial strategy will include the privati-
zation of some public enterprises and the spin-off of new technology-based
industry from the high-tech public enterprises. The Government will also
raise the quality of professional and technical staff in order to strengthen
research and technology capabilities.
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Project
1.35     The Bank's strategy for assistance to professional human resource
development has been to provide strong support for the improvement of quality
in the domestic universities, particularly for science and technology degree
courses, university teacher training, the development of postgraduate work,
and improvement in university management. The first University Development



- 9-
Project, FY81, (Loan 1094-IND) supported overseas training fellowships for
university teachers, together with support for course development and
planning, and the supply of textbooks and materials. The second University
Development Project, FY85, (Loan 2547-IND) financed the development of
specialist postgraduate centers, established Inter-university Centers CIUCs)
at five universities, funded programs of postgraduate study and research by
university reachers at the centers, and provided overseas fellowships for
university staff. The third loan in the series, the Higher Education Develop-
ment Loan, FY88, (Loan 2944-IND), was designed to support a three-year expend-
iture program covering: enhanced operational expenditure on selected engi-
neering degree courses to raise quality and improve efficiency; fellowships
for university teachers for postgraduate training in domestic S2 and S3 pro-
grams, and support for new physical facilities. Over a period of about eight
years, the university system has been strengthened with the result that by now
a large proportion of the upgrading of its teachers can be carried out locally
rather than overseas.
1.36     The Bank has also supported development of the polytechnics system to
establish senior technician training, through two Polytechnic Development
Projects, FY78, and FY83, (Credit 869-IND and Loan 2590-IND). The PPAR report
on the First Polytechnics Credit (Report No. 7847) expressed overall satis-
faction with the polytechnics development in Indonesia.
1.37     The long-term effort to improve the capacity and quality of the dom-
estic universities has been supplemnted by Bank support fox several major
programs of overseas fellowship training: in Science and Technology, FY85,
(Loan 2599-IND); a program of fellowships administered by the OTO within the
Public Works Manpower Development Project, FY83, (Loan 2258-IND); and project-
specific overseas training in several projects, including fellowships for the
Ministry of Finance (para. 1.11).
1.38     The Bank has also supported the Government's approaches to strengthen
the capacity of its ministries to manage their programs of overseas training.
Apart from support to the OTO, fellowship program implementation un--ts have
been supported in BPPT (for the Science and Technology program) and in the
Ministry of Education (for university teacher fellowships and for Ministry and
school staff). The implementation of fellowship programs has been good; there
has been negligible "brain-drain," with almost all fellows returning to
Indonesia. Training has been completed in the planned time periods. Returned
fellows appear to be employed in posts where their skills are used (para. 1.15
and Annex 4).
1.39     The Bank is assisting the Government to improve career development
for civil servants through a number of projects. The recently approved Public
Works Institutional Development and Training Project (Loan 3112-IND) includes
assistance to design and establish functional career structures for engineers
and other professionals in public works and to improve personnel systems for
central, provincial and local government public works staff.
1.40     Justification and Rationale.  One justification for the project is
the critical need for well trained and qualified professional, technical and
management s;aff to implement successfully the Government's strategies for
deregulation, privatization and decentralization. The rationale for Bank



- 10 -
support for this is that the amount and type of postgraduate training required
can most effectively be provided in a timely manner by a large program of
overseas training. By using loan funds the Government can also more
effectively develop coordinated national policy, procedures and capabilities
to manage staff development and overseas training programs; develop cross
sectoral training, and send staff for training in institutions in different
countries in accordance with quality, cost and relevance of training. Support
for postgraduate training overseas, and through domestic programs where pos-
sible, would complement the Bank's ongoing support for development of the
university system. The project would also complement existing Bank support
for Indonesia's adjustment program.
1.41     Another justification is the importance and need for improved coordi-
nation of human resource development generally, including decisions on the
allocation of resources to different forms and levels of education and
training. The rationale for Bank support is that this would complement
ongoing loan support for different subsectors of education.
1.42     The other main justification is the importance of improved coordina-
tion of policy, planning and management of science and technology, and exten-
sion and improvement of quality of research and development and its applica-
tion in industrial development. The rationale for Bank support is the conti-
nuity of support for scientific and technological staff development, and the
ongoing program of support for industrial development. The project would also
provide a foundation for increased application of technology in industry.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Content
2.1      The objectives of the project aret
(a) to improve human resource development policymaking and planning;
(b) to improve the quality of professional, technical and managerial
staff to ensure improved performance in policymaking and implementa-
tion in critical areas of economic development concerned with growth
with sustainable development, industrialization, increasing private
sector participation and decentralization;
(c) to improve the quality of scientific and technological research and
development, enhance its management and improve the application of
research and technology to industrial development.
2.2      The project would comprise the following components:
(a) improved planning and management of human resource development;
(b) professional and managerial staff development; and



- 11 -
(c) science and technology for industrial development.
A.  Improved Planning and Management of Human Resource Development (HRD)
(Estimated cost: US$19.8 million including contingencies)
2.3      The project would assist BAPPENAS to (a) improve HRD policy making,
planning, administration and monitoring at national, provincial and local
government levels, and (b) improve the management of overseas training.
Improved HRD Policymaking, Planning and Implementation
2.4      HRD policymaking and planning in relation to economic development
generally would be improved through:
(a) support for improved HRD policy formulation at national and provin-
cial levels including conduct cf policy-based studies, research, and
design and implementation of improved r ocedures for policy formula-
tion;
(b) development and implementation of improved HRD planning systems,
methods, pricedures and guidelines at national and provincial levels;
(c)  strengthening of administrative systems and _   bilities, particu-
larly at provincial and kabupaten levels, for efficient implementa-
tion of fRD policies;
(d) improvement of systems for monitoring the implementation of HRD poli-
cies and plans at provincial and local levels.
2.5      The program would be managed by the office of the Deputy Chairman for
Manpower and Natural Resources in RAPPENAS. Policy studies and research would
be commissioned by BAPPENAS and carried out by universities and specialists to
cover issues of labor-market behavior, employment, education and training,
technological development, industrialization, income distribution, non-eco-
nomic aspects such as cultural factors influencing employment and cross-coun-
try comparative studies. HRD planning procedures and methods would be
improved with consultant assistance.
2.6     HED policy formulation, planning and monitoring would be improved at
provincial and local government levels bT the development of improved pro-
cedures and  aeir implementation through the training of BAPPEDA staff and the
supply of computer facilities. The staff training programs would be based on
case studies and analytical and planning systems developed in BAPPENAS with
support from consultants and staff of other ministries. The training program
would be arranged in two phases: initially through training of trainers and
subsequently through short courses of training for BAPPEDA staff conducted in
five regional programs, implemented by a network of five domestic universities
coordinated and monitored by BAPPENAS.



- 12 -
2.7      The project would provide 135 staff-months of international and about
400 staff-months of domestic specialist services for assistance with policy
studies and research, and development of planning systesas and training
materials. Contracts would be signed with domestic universities to provide
the training for provincial and local BAPPEDA staff. Terms of reference for
the consultant services were agreed.
Improved Overseas Training Policy and Management
2.8      The Overseas Training Office would be strengthened.  Its resources,
including staff, would be increased and its capability improved to provide
policy advice, to coordinate overseas training and to improve tne efficiency
of training. Technical assistance would be provided to assist in the improve-
ment of training and management systems and in the establishment of informa-
tion and monitoring systems. Computer facilities would be expanded and an
electronic mail system installed. A building presently occupied by the
Ministry of Finance would be provided for the OTO and, under the project, it
would be repaired, renovated, furnished and equipped to provide comprehensive
services and facilities. Some international agencies responsible for overseas
fellowship training programs are expected to rent space in the building.
2.9      The project would also support the continued activities of working
groups on improving re-entry arrangements and increasing participation of
women in overseas training. A progLam of policy-based research and other
studies would also be carried out, commissioned by OTO, at a cost of about
US$l million, on the following aspects of overseas trainings (a) establish-
ment of an overseas training database; (b) analysis of costs and benefits of
overseas training and feasibility of cost sharing; (c) cross-country compari-
son of Government and private sector roles in overseas training; (d) selection
and predeparture preparation methods and procedures; (e) placement procedures;
(f) grading and comparative studies of quality of training in different coun-
tries; and (g) follow-up and evaluation of outcomes of overseas training pro -
grams (Annex 6, Table 1).
2.10     The project would provide 168 staff months of international and 192
staff months of domestic consultant specialist services to assist the institu-
tional development of OTO including financial management and advice on the
research program. Terms of reference for consulting services and research and
other studies and the program of staff training were agreed.
B. Professional and Managerial Staff Development
(Estimated cost:  US$73.0 million, including contingencies)
Overseas Training Office (OTO) Fellowship Program
2.11     The project would support a program of about 1100 fellowships for
overseas postgraduate degree and nondegree staff training, administered by the
OTO, focused on the following development priorities and special concernss
(a) public policy analysis in all fields of development; (b) environmental
conservation and sustainable economic development; and (c) administration and
management of public institutions and selected public and private enterprise
(Annex 6, Table 2).



- 13 -
2.12     Training would meet the institutional and higher-level staff develop-
ment needs of key ministries and agencies, focused on priority sector pro-
grams. For example, in trade, the focus would be on improvement and imple-
mentation of trade deregulation policies and facilitating the increase of non-
oil exports through training in business administration, international eco-
nomics and trade, international and commercial law, public administration and
quality control and standards. In industry, the focus would be on the
development of manufacturing industry through improvement of management,
strategic planning, marketing, and production engineering. Fellowships for
training would be provided for staff of private universities and academies
which have the potential and commitment to achieve good quality and which
agree to provide matching funds for overseas training for their staff. These
training programs would be   .ined and managed in close collaboration with
DGHEs the priorities are engiaeering, science, computing, management and
tourism. A priority in the environmental field is training for mechanical,
chemical and petroleum engineers in industrial processes that minimize,
recycle and recover wastes and thus reduce the amount of pollutants generated,
shifting the current focus away from end-of-pipe technologies, which are
costly to build and operate. Training for nongovernmental organizationG
(LSMs) would be provided mainly through tailor-made nondegree programs and
attachments. For local government, emphasis would be given to the level II
government staff, for whom training would include public administration,
planning, financial management, project management and productivity for local
industries. The training would be planned as a link into the proposed full-
scale Local Goverrment Institutional and Manpower Development Project.
2.13     The fellowship program would be admtnistered in accordance with
existing policy guidelines which were reviewed at appraisal covering such
matters as nomination and selection o.f fellows, predeparture training and
formalities, placement, conditions of 2tudty overseas, financial arrangements,
return and re-entry, and evaluatior. These procedures are satisfactory, but
they would be followed up systematically, including through commissioned
research studies in order to improve the systems and obtain maximum benefit
from the training. The process of nomination would reflect the training pri-
orities of the ministries sponsoring fellows. Selection of fellows would be
based on the existing Academic Potential Test (TPA), supplemented by academic
records and competitive interview. The OTO's three-stage English language
training program would be further developed by in-service training of
teachers, expansLzwa of the number of language centers, experimentation into
different methods of teaching and closer integrations of language, academic
and cross-cultural preparation. Training in French, German and Japanese and
possibly Korean would be introduced, using established local and overseas
agencies, ready for placement in those countries from 1991. In the process of
nomination and selection of fellowship candidates, emphasis would be placed on
increasing the participation of women, to reach a target of 25? of women fel-
lows by the ead of the project period, in order to improve their position in
management in public enterprises. Opportunities for overseas training and the
benefits of training would be specially brought to the attention of eligible
women civil servants. Their supervisors would be etcouraged to nominata th-m
as candidates for selection. Progress in achloving the increased parti-
cipation of women would be monitored and if necessary other inducements would
be introduced, e.g. assisting women with families to return to Indonesia
during their long vacations. OTO would also expand its database and



- 14 -
computerization of information on nondegree training programs, disseminate the
information and improve the systems for selection, placement, control and
monitoring of such training programs.
2.1     EThe initial priorities for training were identified through discus-
sions, seminars and workshops between OTO staff and senior staff of the Min-
istries concerned. In each Ministry a small working group has bcen formed to
plan and coordinate the program. The OTO, with the help of consultant ser-
vices, would continue to assist the Ministries to plan overseas training pro-
grams in accordance with their institutional and staff development needs. In
the environmental field, assistance in identiZication of training needs would
also be provided throigh consultant services under the proposed Environmental
Management Technical Assistance Loan.
2.15     The services of overseas agencies would be used to assist with place-
ment and administration of the fellowship programs. Terms of reference for
these services and procedures for selection and appointment were agreed.
2.16     The OTO would use about 152 staff months of international and 126
staff months of domestic specialist services for coordination of language
training, counselling, testing and selection, identification of training needs
of client Ministries and development of training programs. Terms of reference
for the services were agreed.
Finance Training
2.17     The project would support a program of about 300 fellowships for
postgraduate overseas training, managed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), in
finance and monetary policy and related fields for staff of the MOF, associat-
ed agencies and relevant staff of other ministries including Trade, Industry
and Foreign Affairs.  About 45 fellowships annually would be provided for
postgraduate degree training, focused on young middle level managers in
finance, public and monetary policy, public and business administration,
accounting and economics. About 30 fellowships annually for shorter-duration
nondegree courses would also be provided in these fields as well as in
specialist subjects such as taxation, auditing, asset valuation, customs and
ex^ise procedures and data management. In addition, about 30 staff-years of
domestic training would be provided in related fields (Annex 7).
2.18     The selection, predeparture, placement and monitoring procedures
would be based on the present program which was reviewed and considered to be
satisfactory. nlominations would take into account tne training needs of the
ministries. The selection process would include the academic potential test
(TPA), language testing, records of work performance and interview.
Preparatory language training and academic upgrading courses would be provided
initially at a local institution which provides satisfactory training under
the existing program but within the project period a preparatory program would
be established at the Ministry's Center for Finance Education and Training
(BPLK). The current system of advanced preparation in the country of study
would continue, and, as at present would include language skills, mathematics,
economics, statistics, and computer application. The majority of candidates
would study in English-speaking countries. Placement and monitoring would be
assisted by educational placement agencies in the countries concerned.



- 15 -
Nondegree training would focus on relatively short, tailor-made specialist
courses, particularly for senior staff.  Some fellows would be placed in
business management programs in domestic public and private universities.
Training courses and seminars, including training for the private sector,
would also be developed and run at BPLK, some with foreign teacher participa-
tion.
2.19     The program would be managed by staff assigned to the MOF Overseas
Training P'U within BPLK, with about 48 staff months of international consult-
ant services to assist with planning of training. Terms of reference and
arrangements for employment of consultants and placement services were agreed.
C. Science and Technoloay for Industrial Development (STAID)
(Estimated cost: US$76.0 million including contingencies)
Improvement in Science and Technology Policy Analysis and Management
2.20     S&T Policy Analysis.  The project would support improvement of the
systems, procedures and the analytical base for Science and Technology policy
making, allocation of resources and coordination of research activities
through:
(a)  establishing a Sc.Aence and Technology Policy Formulation Unit in
BPPT, including training of staff. The Unit would carry out, wit..
1asultant assistance, two major studies: one, for which the head of
.ne BPPT Planning Department would be responsible, and which would be
guided by an Assistant Minister of State for Research and Technology,
would be focused on the institutional structure of research, funding
for research and development and the role of government vis-a-vis the
private sector in the conduct of research and its application in
industry; and the other, under the guidance of the Deputy Chairman
for System Analysis of BPPT, focused on identifying the priorities
for 4cience and technology to support industrial development, the
main issues and constraints acting on the existing system, the pre-
paration of action plans and estimation of the resources required;
and
(b) supporting the Secretariat of the National Research Council and the
Miniotry of State for Research and Technology by funding consulting
services for policy studies and related supporting activities.
2.21     Improving the Management of Science and Technology.  The project
would support improvements in the management of science and technology by:
(a) the design and establishment of the following systems2 (i) a Project
Analysis Unit in BPPT, under the guidance of an Assistant Minister of State
for Research and Technology, responsible to the BPPT Deputy for Systems
Analysis, for systematic analysis of project proposals, including economic
feasibility; and (il) improved management systems in BPPT and LIPI (as pilots
for all LPNDs) for efficient personnel planning, staffing, training, career
development, performance evaluation and compensation, including the extensLon
aid development of functional structures for technical and professional staff;
and (iii) a science and technology information system to be developed by BPPT



- 16 -
and LIPI; and (b) studies leading to the preparation of action plans for
implementation by BPPT and LIPI (also as pilots for all LPNDs) of: (i) the
finance, budget and accounting systems, including arrangements to facilitate
revenue earning; and (ii) tne office organization, management and
administrative systems and procedures.
2.22     The above systems development and studies would be managed by a
Projects Management Unit and carried out by the relevant staff of BPPT, LIPI,
and Min. Ristek with assistance of about 535 staff months of international and
513 staff months of domestic consultant services. Terms of reference were
agreed. (Annex 8). The systems development program and studies would be
closely integrated and would be conducted in cooperation with other agencies
including MENPAN, BAKN, BPS, Ministries of Industry and Manpower and DGHE.
Science and Technology Staff Development and Training
2.23     The quality of key scientific, technical and related management staff
of the nondepartmental research institutes (LPNDs) and strategic industries,
and technologists from other departments would be improved through a program
of about 370 domestic and 780 overseas fellowships. The programs would be
mainly postgraduate, for masters and doctors degrees and specialist training
and industrial or research internships in applied science, technology, design
and management. Candidates for fellowships would be nominated by the institu-
tions concerned in accordance with their priority needs for professional and
technical staff required to meet their institutional development. For the two
industries which have units concerned with military equipment, the training
would be provided only for the non-military departmental staff. As far as
possible training would include cooperative academic and industry programs,
joint domestic and foreign programs with links between research institutes,
industry and universities, and corporate management training for senior staff.
The emphasis in training would be on application of science and technology in
industry. Relevant training would be arranged in those international com-
panies investing in technological development in Indonesia.
2.24     The fellowship program was prepared on the basis of analysis of
development plans, staffing and staff training needs of each LPND and strate-
gic industry and recorded in working papers. The institutional development
and staffing plans for the LPNDs and strategic industries were reviewed and
agreed to be satisfactory but would be reviewed and updated annually.
Specialist consultant services would also be provided to assist the
organizations to improve their professional training programs.
2.25     The satisfactory selection and placement procedures developed for the
existing Overseas Fellowship Program (OFP) would be adopted as the basis for
the new program. In order to compensate for deficiencies in undergraduate
study, particularly in science, the predeparture preparation would be
strengthened by a tailor-made program covering experimental methods, mathe-
matics and computing in parallel with language preparation. For those candi-
dates who need further preparation, additional study programs would be
arranged in the overseas country where the main program would take place. For
both the LPNDs and strategic indutstries, the selection criteria would include
the priority of training to meet key Institutional and program objectives in
line with national development priurities. For the strategic industries,



_ 17 -
priority would be given for training directly relevant to planned *spin-off*
of technological development to the private industrial sector and also reflect
the extent of the industry's commitment to staff development through continued
provision of matching funds for training from its own resources. For the
LPNDs, priority would '% given to training related to the development of
research and technolo;, to support industrial development.
2.26     In view of the limited experience and capacity for postgraduate
science and technology training of the domestic universities, the domestic
fellowship programs would be arranged mainly through links between the dow-
estic universities and the LPNDs or overseas institutions, under contracts
which would cover the full costs of tuition, materials and link operations
such as visiting staff and overseas components of training.
2.27     The re-entry program developed for the OFP would be continued and
improved by the re-entry section of the central STAID Fellowship Management
Unit. The placement of returned fellows would be closely monitored to ensure
that their employment is in accordance with institutional development
objectives and that maximum use is made of the skills acquired through
training.
2.28     The STAID Fellowship Management Unit would be supported by about 192
staff months of international consultant services for planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation and financial and contract administration. Services
of overseas agencies would be engaged to assist with placement, monitoring and
financial administration overseas of the fellowship programs. Terms of
reference for these services were agreed.
2.29     Transfer of Technology.  In order to encourage spin-off into the
private sector of some of the activities of the state enterprises and to help
to establish new industry, a pilot project for assisting potential engineering
er.trepreneurs would be established. Young trained staff of the main indus-
tries, particularly PT IPTN, would be given the opportunity of working in
small teams on special assignments related to design or production. They
would work within tight constraints of budget, time, quality and output
requirements, assisted by consultant help and training. If successful, the
participants would be encouraged to set up their own firms, building on the
experience gained during their special assignments. State enterprise could
help, for example, by guarantee of venture capital and undertaking to buy an
agreed proportion of output. Under the project, the scheme would be designed
and tried out with a few groups undertaking special assignments. The pilot
projects would be evaluated at the end of the project period.
OECF Support fur Professional Human Resource Development and Science and
Technology
2.30     The Government of Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF)
is supporting a Science and Technology Manpower Development Project which
started in 1988, and has indicated to the Government its interest in providing
a loan in FY90/91 covering a broad-based program of fellowships for overseas
training through the OTO, the MOF and STAID, following the same objectives and
arrangement as the proposed Bank project. OECF would also consider funding
the planning and further development of the National Center for Research and



- 18 -
Technology, PUSPIPTEK, related educational facilities and the establishment of
a proposed Science-Based Industrial Park adjacent to PUSPIPTEK. The support
could also include buildings and equipment for priority research programs at
PUSPIPTEK. Formal appraisal of the OECF loan is not expected before Fall
1989, but an OECF representative participated in both the preappraisal and
appraisal missions of the present project.
Fellowship Selection, Placement and Re-entry Procedures
2.31     The three organizations, OTO, MOF and BPPT, have well established
fellowship programs and good experience with selection, placement and re-
entry, (paras. 1.10 to 1.15). These procedures would however be reviewed and
outcomes monitored regularly to ensure that the best candidates are selected,
that the specialist training has been chosen in consultation vith the fellows'
supervisors to ensure relevance to the institutional needs of the sponsoring
organizations and that after re-entry the maximum utilization would be made of
the fellows' training. The capacity of the domestic post graduate system is
limited and currently priority is given to the post graduate training of
university staff. However, the fellowship programs have been designed to make
as much use as possible of the domestic university system.
2.32     It was agreed that a report would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31 of each year starting December 31, 1990, on the implementation of
fellowship training, including the training programs; costs of training and
allowances; selection, placement and re-entry procedures: and the allocation
of fellrwships for academic qualifications and domestic and overseas training,
and aft r review the Bank's comments would be taken into account.
The Private Sector and Overseas Training
2.33     The majority of fellowships under the project would be awarded to
staff of government departments, government agencies and public enterprises.
Some staff of private universities and nongovernmental organizations would
also receive overseas training, but the Government is not prepared to use loan
funds on a wide scale to finance overseas training for private sector staff.
In the past in Indonesia, there has been negligible loss of trained staff from
the public to the private sectors. The opportunity for well-qualified civil
servants to engage in secondary employment, possibly in the privatoi sector,
has probably been an important ractor in this. The situation may well change
in the next few ,ears as the private sector's needs for well-qualified staff
expand, and the capacity to offer better salaries and long-term careers could
attract staff from government service. The position will be monitored through
the follow-up of trainees and the re-entry procedures. If this loss of well-
qualified civil servants becomes an issue there are a number of policy options
for the Government to take, including the recovery from the private employer
of all or part of the costs of training of staff who move to the private
sector before completing their periods of bonded service. The Government will
also encourage and assist the private sector to send some of its staff
overseas for training through the services of OTO.



- 19 -
Consultant and Specialiut Services
2.34     Consultant and specialist service3 for support to the project imple-
mentation units and for carrying out of systems developments and studies are
summarized in Annex 10. Consultant services would be kept to a minimum and
would only be used for strictly defined tasks for which the consultants would
assist the assigned Ministry or agency staff and would be responsible to the
functionally responsible member of staff who is assigned as manager for the
work.
Project Management
2.35     The project components would be managed separately by the organiza-
tions which have functional responsibilities in the fields concerned:
BAPPENAS/OTO, MOF and BPPT. A National Committee for Overseas Training
(NACOT) has been established by BAPPENAS incorporating a policy guidance body,
the National Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT) and an
implementation unit, the OTO.21 The NASTOT, chaired by the Director of the
National Institute of Administration (LAN) governs OTO, provides general
strategy a-d policy advice to GOI on overseas training and coordinates the
four project components. The membership of NASTOT includess the Deputy
Chairman for Administration, BAPPENAS; the Deputy Chairman for Manpower and
Natural Resources, BAPPENAS; the Deputy Chairman for Administration, BPPT; the
Head of the Board of Financial Training and Education of MOF; the Director
General of Higher Education, MOEC; the Assistant to the State Minister of
Administrative Reform for Personnel Affairs; the Deputy Chairman for Regional
Affairs, BAPPENAS and the Bureau Chief, Intergovernmental Technical
Cooperation, Cabinet Secretariat. In addition to its responsibilities for
guidance on policy for overseas training the NASTOT will be responsible for
evaluating the results of overseas training and integrating overseas training
programs with plans and policy for human resource development generally.
2.36     Within BAPPENAS the HRD policy and planning activities would be the
responsibility of the Deputy Chairman for Human Resource Development and
Natural Resources. The overseas fellowship training program would be managed
by the Overseas Training Office (OTO), with the same basic structure as at
present but increased staffing. The Deputy for Administration, BAPPENAS, is
concurrently the Director of the OTO and Secretary of NASTOT. The Head of the
Bureau of Administration of OTO is concurrently the Chief of the Bureau for
Administration of Training under the Deputy Chairman for Administration (Annex
11, Chart 1). The staffing of OTO would increase from the present 22 to about
50 (Annex 11, Table 1). OTO is a non-structural entity and the OTO staff are
either BAPPENAS staff assigned to OTO posts or appointed as project staff.
2.37     The Finance and Monetary fellowship training program would be mAnaged
under a Steering Committee including the Head of BPLK, and Secretary Generals
of Ministries of Industry and Trade and Secretary of the Investment
Coordinating Board. A Project Implementation Unit would be established in
BPLK, initially comprising 10 MOF staff, with part-time assistance of staff
assigned by the Ministries which sponsor fellows. Decrees for the
21 Decree No. 076/KET/9/1989 issued by Minister of State for National
Development Planning, September 1, 1989.



-20 -
establishment of the Steering Committee and PIU were agreed and an assurance
given that the Steering Committee and PIU would be established by March 31,
1990, and staff appointed in accordance with the agreed staffing plan, and
that pending the establishment of the Steering Committee and PIU the existing
arrangements under the Committee for Foreign Technical Cooperation and
staffing would be maintained.
2.38     The STAID program would be coordinated by the Implementation Team,
chaired by the Deputy Chairman for Administration of BPPT, supported by three
Steering Committees and a series of units including a Projects Management Unit
and a Fellowships Management Unit.  The membership of the Implementation Team
would represent the Ministry of Research and Technology, National .esearch
Council, the LPNDs and the Ministry Council on Strategic Industries.  The
staffing of the existing PIU would be considerably strengthened (Annex 11,
Table 2 and Chart 2).  The decrees establishing the Implementation Team,
Steering Committees and Management Units were agreed, and assurances given
that the Implementation Team, Projects Management Unit and Fellowship
Management Unit would be established by March 31, 1990, that staff would be
assigned in accordance with agreed plans and that pending their establishment
the existing OFPIU and staffing would be maintained.
Status of Project Preparation
2.39     The status of preparation of the project is summarized in Annex 11,
Table 3. Terms of reference for all technical assistance for systems
development, studies and support together with arrangements for procurement of
consultant services and short list of firms were agreed.
2.40     Policies on fellowship training were agreed, covering selection,
predeparture preparation, placement, monitoring and reporting criteria for
fellowships, allowances, and re-entry. Draft contracts for services for
placement and monitoring, were agreed, together with initial proposals for
selection of agencies to provide the services and short lists. Selection of
the first batch of candidates for training is at a different stage for each
component. For the Ministry of Finance, some candidates are already overseas
in preparatory studies, other candidates have been selected and some have
completed part of the predeparture preparation. The OTO has selected
candidates, some of whom started language and other preparation in July 1989.
Candidates fcr science and technology from the LPNDs and state enterprises
have been selected ready to start predeparture preparation in April 1990.
2.41     Implementation Schedule.  The project would cover the four-year pro-
gram of activities 1990191 to 1993/94. The schedule of implementation of main
activities is shown in Annex 11, Chart 3.
2.42     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Implementation of project activities
would be monitored regularly with reports to the Steering Committee on Over-
seas Training and to the Bank.  Monitoring indicators would cover the imple-
mentation oi training programs; including placement, performance, participa-
tion of women, etc.; and systems development and conduct of studies and
preparation of related action plans. The achievements of longer-term
objectives would also be monitored, however improvements in policies,
performance and productivity of the Ministries would not be apparent until the



- 21 -
end of the project period. It would be necessary therefore to measure
outcomes more narrowly by evaluating, for example, the performance on the job
of returned fellows or the direct benefit from improvement in systems such as
information flow, production of reports, implementation of career systems,
etc. (Annex 11, Table 4).
2.43     A mid-term evaluation of the project would be conducted as a basis
for decision on future investment in professional human resource development
and overseas training. In particular, the evaluation would enable the review
of future financing of overseas training, and a decision to be made on the
award of new overseas fellowships in 1983-84 or use of the balance of funds to
complete the training of fellows already in progress.  It was agreed that
there would be a mid-term review of the imnlementation of the project, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with the
assistance of external consultants.  The report on the findings and
recommendations would be furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1992, and
thereafter taking into account the Bank's comments, if any, the requilred
adjustments would be made in the implementation of the Project to attain the
agreed objectives.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. PROCUREMENT.
DISBURSEMENT AND ACCOUNTS
Cost Estimates and Financing
3.1      The estimated cost of the project is US$168.8 :illion equivalert.
The estimated cost by component is summarized in Table 1 and by category of
expenditure in Table 2. Summaries of cost by component and category of
expenditure and project expenditure by category and year are shown in Annex
12, Tables 1 and 2.
3.2      Base costs are estimated at current prices.  The estimated cost of
the fellowship program is based on detailed analysis of costs by country for
the target distributions of training programs based on the current tuition
charges and other costs and allowances of the OFP and OTO programs. The costs
of successfully completed training under these two programs are similar.
Since the cost of a training program in the USA represents the weighted aver-
age of training in the target countries, the USA average has been taken as the
average unit cost, (Annex 12, Table 3). The costs of technical assistance,
studies and systems development are based on unit costs of similar services
and activities in programs currently being implemented in Indonesia. Equip-
ment costs are based on agreed lists and current catalog prices.
3.3      The estimated foreign exchange cost of US$117.5 million represents
about 702 of total project cost excluding taxes. Physical contingencies of
10X have been allowed for technical assistance, building adaptation and equip-
ment. No physical contingency has been allowed for the fellowship program
since the programs would be adjusted annually in accordance with priorities
within the agreed overall plans and budget. Price contingencies are based on
expected annual price increases of 7.0Z in 1990 and 5.0Z annually thereafter
for domestic expenditure and 7.22 in 1990 and 4.4? annually thereafter for
foreign expenditures.



Table ls SU£KfRY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONRET
Rn billion               USS million            Z
Component                                                   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
A. Improved Plainint and Management of ERD
(a) Improved BRD Policies, Planning & Implesentation           4.2     7.8    12.0      2.4     4.4     6.8        65
(b) Improved Overseas Training Policy & Management             1.6     5.0     6.6      0.9     2.8      3.7       76
(c) Improved facilities for OTO                                5.7     6.0    11.7      3.2     3.4     6.6        52
Subtotal                                                 11.5    18.8    30.3      6.5    10.6    17.1        62
B. Professional and Managerial Staff Development
(a) OTO Fellowship Program                                    19.1    59.1    78.2    10.8    33.4    44.2         76
(b) Finance Training                                          10.1    25.3    35.4      5.7    14.3    20.0        72
Subtotal                                                 29.2    84.4   113.6    16.5    47.7    64.2         74
C. Science & Tech.alony for Industrial Development
(a) Improvement in S&T Policy Analysls & Managemnt             7.4    18.9    26.3      4.2    10.7    14.9        72
(b) S&T Staff Development & Training                          32.7    57.6    90.3    18.5    32.5    51.0         64
Subtotal                                                 40.1    76.4   116.6    22.7    43.2    65.9         68
Base Costs                                               80.8   179.7   260.5    45.7   101.5   147.2         69
Physical Contlngencies                                         1.4     4.1      5.5     0.8     2.3      3.1       74
Price Contingencies                                            8.5    24.2    32.7      4.8    13.7    18.5        74
Total Costs la                                           90.7   208.0   298.7    51.3   117.5   168.8         70
/a  Includes identifiable taxes of about US$2.2 million equivalent.



-23-
Table 2:  SUMIARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURZ
BD billion            USS mllion          I
Category                        Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Foreign
1.  Tralnin.   Proxram
Overseas Fellowshipa            28.5   114.2   142.7   16.1    64.5    80.6      80
Domestic Fellowships             6.5     5.7   .12.2    3.7      3.2     6.9     46
Regular Staff Dev. Programs    17.7      8.6    26.3   10.0      4.9    14.9    S3
Subtotal                     52.7   128.5   181.2   29.8    72.6   102.4      71
2. Consultant Services. System.
Development & Planning Studies
Consultant services              3.2    26.4    29.6    1.8    14.9    16.7      89
Related Support ActivLties       9.9    10.1    20.e    S.6      5.7    11.3     50
Subtotal                     13.1    36.5    49.6    7.4    20.6    28.0      74
3. Civil Works. Furniture. Eaquiment
& Materials
Civil Works and Land             5.3     3.9     9.2    3.0      2.2     5.2     42
Furniture & Office Equipment    0.3      1.2     1.S    0.2      0.7     0.9     78
Computers & Software             0.4     4.3     4.7    0.2      2.4     2.6     92
Subtotal                      6.0     9.4    1S.4    3.4      5.3     8.7     61
4.  Pro1ect Management                 9.0     S.3    14.3   51       3.0     8.1     37
Base Costs                   80.8   179.7   260.5   4S.7   101.5   147.2      69
Physical Contingencies             1.4     4.1     5.5    0.8      2.3     3.1     74
Price Contingencies                8.5    24.2    32.7    4.8    13.7    18.5      74
Total Costs /&               90.7   208.0   298.7   51.3   117.5   168.8      70
la Includes identifiable taxes of about US$2.2 mlllion equivalent.



- 24 -
3.4      The proposed Bank Aoan of US$117.5 million would represent 70? of
total project cost excluding taxes estimated as US$2.2 million. The financing
plan is shown in Table 3.
Procurement
3.5      The breakdowD of project expenditure by procurement category is shown
in Table 4.
3.6      The procurement arrangements would be as followss
(a)  Civil works would comprise repair and adaptation for the building to
be provided for the OTO end would be awarded in a package estimated
to cost about US$1.8 million and would be awarded through local com-
petitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(b) Equipment, furniture and materials would cost about US$4.2 million in
total compricing: (i) computers and software for the HRD policy and
planning team of about US$350,000 value procured by ICB;
(ii) computer software and communication equipment for OTO of about
US$650,000 value, procured by ICB; (iii) computers and software for
STAID costing about US$2,000,000, procured by ICB; (iv) office
equipment and materials for all components of total value of about
US$1,100,000, in packages of less than US$200,000 and comp'iters of
total value of about US$100,000 procured through LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) The major expenditure for fellowship training would comprise actual
costs for tuition as.nd international travel and authorized allowances
in accordance with the agreed unit costs. Fellowship training place-
ments and administration services would be procured through a series
of contracts, normally using nonprofitmaking agencies in the coun-
tries where fellowships would be implemented. The shortlists from
which agencies would be selected were agreed.
(d) Consultant services would be selectcd in accordance with Bank guide-
lines.
3.7      Prior Bank review would be required for all contracts for training
and support agency services, and consultant services in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and for bidding documents and contracts for procurement of
equipment awarded on the basis of ICB. This would represent about 852 of the
total loan cost. Other contracts would be reviewed after signing.
Disbursements
3.8      The proposed loan of US$117.5 million would be disbursed against the
following categories of expenditure incurred in the four year period from
April 1, 1990 until March 31, 1994s (a) 1002 of total expenditure for over-
seas and domestic train!ng fellowships; (b) 100? of expenditures on consult-
ants services, systems development and studies; (c) 60X of civil works expend-
iture; and (d) (i) 100? of foreign expenditure of directly imported goods;
(ii) 100? of local (ex-factory net of tax) expenditure and (iii) 65t of



- 25 -
Table 3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Proposed         IBRD share 2
IBRD           (excluding
Category                          Government    Loan    Total      taxes)
Training:  Fellowships                    16.9Ja      83.8    100.7         83
Regular staff development      16.5        -        16.5         -
Consultants, Systems Development
& Planning Studies                       5.1LA      25.2     30.3        88
Civil Works and Land                       4.2         1.1      5.3         21
Furniture, Equipment and Materials         0.7         3.3      4.0         83
Project Management                         7.1La       1.8lb    8.9         20
Unallocated                                 0.8        2.3      3.1         74
Total                                51.3      117.5    168.8         70
la   Includes GOI financing of salaries and allowances paid to fellows and
project management staff, and overheads.  This accounts for apparent
discrepancies in t1- IBRD shares shown in this table and the disbursement
percentages in para. 3.8.
/b   Pinancing from the Loan excludes salaries and other routine costs.



- 26 -
Table 4i PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
(Figures in Parenthesis Represent Loan Financed Expenditure)
Procurement Procedure              Total
Category of Expenditure                IGB    LCB    Other LS       NA       Cost lb
Training                                           117.2                  117.2
(83.8)                 (83.8)
Consultants, Systems                                33.2                   33.2
Development & Planning Studies                   (27.4)                 (27.4)
Civil Works & Land                          1.8                  3.6        5.4
(1 .1)               (C-)       (1 .1)
Furniture, Equipment and           3.0      1.2                             4.2
Materials                        (2.7)   (0.7)                            (3.4)
Project Management (excluding                                    8.8        8.8
routine salaries and allowances                                 (1.8)      (1.8)
and other recurrent expenditure)
Total                        3.0     3.0    150.4        12.4       168.8           1
(2.7)   (1-.8)  (111.2)      (1.-8)    (117.5)
/a Other procurement procedure includes: fellowship training programs (i.e.,
tuition fees, authorized living costs and allowances and contracts with support
agencies) and recruitment of consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines and
related support activities.                                                               |
/b  Total costs include physical and price contingencies.
.



- 27 -
expenditure on other irems of equipment, furniture, computers, software and
books procured locally, and (e) 100Z of project management costs excluding
staff salaries and other routine costs and overheads. The government's
expenditure would include salaries paid to fellows during training and the
overhead costs of the training programs. The loan would be closed on March
31, 1995.
3.9      Retroactive financing for expenditure from April L; 1989 up to US$3.5
million would be provided to cover predeparture training, overseas training
for the first batch of trainees, technical assistance, equipment and building
repair work.
3.10     Table 5 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements based on the
implementation schedule and the actual disbursement performance of the current
OFP project (Loan 2599-IND). This schedule is faster than the disbursement
profile for all Indonesian projects which is also shown for comparison.
3.11     To facilitate disbursement administration a Special Account would be
established in Bank Indonesia, to be maintained by the DG Budget of the Min-
istry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special Account would
be used against all categories for eligible expenditures in accordance with
prevailing procedures. Upon loan effecti7eness and confirmation of the estab-
lishment of the Special Account, the Bank, on receipt of an application from
DG Budget, would make an initial deposit of US$4.0 million, representing an
estimated four-monthly disbursement requirement for local currency expendi-
tures. Subse*luent replenishment would be made quarterly or when the balance
of the Special Account is reduced to one half of the initial deposit.  With-
drawal applications for goods and services under a contract value exceeding
US$200,000 would be supported by full documentation. Other disbursements
against contracts for civil works, goods and consultant services, systems
development and planning studies not exceeding US$200,000, all contracts for
training and expenditures for project management would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The D.G. Budget and PIUs as appropriate
would be responsible for aggregating the eligible expenditures on the basis of
statements prepared by each implementing unit and for preparing withdrawal
applications for submission to the Bark. To the extent practicable, with-
drawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$20,000 or more for
direct payment, and US$60,000 or more for reimbursement, prior to submission
to the Bank. Supporting documentation af the SOE would be maintained at each
of the implemencing units, and made available for review by Bank missijns.
GOI agreed to make satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the
Special Account and set up the necessary organizational structure for its
operation, including accounting and auditing procedures.
3.12     Contracts with support agencies in the countries where fellows are
placed will normally include services for financial administration such as
payments to universities, training agencies and to the individual fellows.
Payments to such agencies would be made either from the Special Account or by
using the direct payment procedure.  The OTO and OFP have already made good
progress in fellowship management including detailed financial administrationt
it is the intention that further progress with self management would continue
to be made so that the actual financial administration services required of
the support services would be minimal and the cost low.



-28-
Table St DISBURSDWT FORBCAST
Science & Technology
Disbursement             Training Project      Indonesia
IBRD Fiscal Year          Semeter    Cuuiative  1        Actual Profile La  All Sector
& Semester                     US$ Million                   I              Profile lb
1990
lot                           _
2nd                3.0        3.0        3            4.4                  0
1991
lot                 7.0      10.0        8            7.4                  2
2nd                8.0       18.0       15           16.6                  5
1992
let               11.0       29.0       24           29.0                 11
2nd               11.0       40.0       34           48.2                 18
1993
lot               12.0       52.0       44           60.4                 28
2nd               13.0       65.0       55           61.0                 38
1994
lot               12.0       77.0       65                                47
2nd               13.0       90.0       76                                56
1995  t                14.0     104.0      '86                                65
2nd               13.5      117S5      100                                74
~/a  The Science & Technology Training (OPP) Project (Loan 2599-IND) became effective in
September 1985.
1b  Initial 6-1/2 years of an average disbursement period of 7-1/2 years.



- 29 -
Accounts and Audits
3.13     Separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
units in BAPPEMAS, MOF and BPPT. Each unit would maintain accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practice and ensure that project accounts and
separate accounts of statements of expenditure would be prepared annually for
audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the
audited accounts and financial statements for each financial year, together
with the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than nine
months after the end of each financial year.
3.14     A consolidated annual project account would be prepared by the secre-
tariat of the Steering Committee for Overseas Training and form part of the
annual report on progress of the project.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1      The principal benefit in the long-term would be the improvement in
policy analysis and policy formulations and improved performance in planning
and implementation of the programs which underpin Indonesia's development
strategy for growth, industrialization and increasing privatization and decen-
tralization. Staff trained under the project would provide an important
source of future leaders of government and industry. The career structure for
scientists and technologists would be improved and enable full and effective
utilization of the high level staff trained under this and other projects.
The improved systems and procedures for science and technology policy making,
and the identification of science and technology priorities for industrializa-
tion would be an important step towards effective development and application
of research and long-term technological development of industry.
4.2      Another important benefit would be the integration and improved man-
agement of high-level staff development and coordination of overseas training.
The Overseas Training Office would build its capacity to provide advice to the
Government on overseas training and to assist the public and private sectors
in selection, placement and monitoring of overseas training to meet institu-
tional development needs and ensure more efficient use of the funds available
for training.
4.3      The main risk in investment in high le,,el staff is the possibility
that the expectations and potentia? of the overseas trained professional staff
mlght not be matched by employment opportunities, incentives and rewards in
government service. However, the close relationship between selection and
training and priority institutional needs and the steps to improve career
development opportunities would lessen this risk.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      The following agreements were reachedt
(a) A report would be submitted to the Bank annually on December 31,
commencing on December 31, 1990, on the implementation of fellowship
training, including the training programs; costs of training and
allowances; selection, placement and re-entry procedures and the
allocation of fellowships for academic qualification and domestic and
overseas training, and the Bank's comments would be taken into
account (para. 2.32);
(b) By March 31, 1990 the following would be established and, where
appropriate, staff assigned in accordance with staffing plans agreed
with the Bankt
(i) the Steering Committee for Finance Training and the Finance
Training PIU (para. 2.37); and
(ii) the STAID Implementation Team, Projects Management Unit and
Fellowships Management Unit (para. 2.38).
(c) Pending the establishment of the Committee, team and management units
in 5.1(b), the existing implementation arrangements and staffing
would be maintained; and
(d) In accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
with assistance of consultants, there would be a mid-term review of
the implementation of the project, and a report furnished to the Bank
by September 30, 1992 on the findings and recommendations, and
thereafter taking into account the Bank's comments, if any, the
required adjustments would be made in the implementation of the
project to attain the agreed objectives (para. 2.43).
5.2      Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$117.5 million equivalent to the
Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 5
years, at the standard variable interest rate.



-31                                           m1
PROfESSIONAL PAUNW fl80U*C   ClrlTtC
tEmloymen n*d Ea"dutlon 19JS- 
A. Estimuted EmClmormnt Eisc tlon and Oecuuetion. U8
Educational                                     Occupation
rrooes. Manag. Admin.  Sales  Jsplce     A.    Prod.  0th r         a
1. Prlmry ShoI              10.6   6.4   417.5  6,406.6 2,206.1 8,5t.6 10,081.7   81.4 57,81.9
2. 0On. Jun. High School    64.1   O.5   440.1  1,046.6   MU.0  1,009.0  1,27.6   90.5 4,314.6
S. Voc. Jun. HIgh School   118.0   2.2   121.4   199.3   00.8   824.0   87.4   lC.5 1,21.S
4. Gen. SUn. Hlgh School   109.4  69.8  1,236t.9    55.    113.0   157.5   45t.6   78.7 8,051.1
S. Vee. S"n. Hih Schoel   1,982.8  18.7   624.0   176.4   126.4   140.4   466.8   44.7 4,185.8
6. DIple  *nd Dr           64.8  49.9   845.8 4     2.8      5.4    19.5    40.4   12.0 1,204.1
Total                    J,174.0 122.0  8,406.1 10,466.0 2,63.0  8,027.8 12,61.8  1.J68 72,216.0
O. Prol_ote Eusloment iEtutlon an Ocatloe. 16
Educational                                    Ocupation
Attainn                                                                        _            Tetal
PrVf.. Usne. Akln.  Solem  Service       Ag-    rre.  atgar
1. Primr School             78.4   0.1   811.7  *,62.6 2,147.5 J0,810.4 11,611.0   17.1   3,81 8.0
2. Gm. Jun. Hlg School     O1.7   9.4   466.4  1,614.6   862.5  2,560.J  1,72.6   59.0 . 6076.9
S. Voe. Jun. HNgh Salool    72.2   4.6   125.4    8106.    76.1   4U0.5   544.8   S.0   1,O4.5
4.  sn.. Sea. High School    874.2  72.8  1,902.1    06.09  185.6   m0.      45.J    U.S   4,468.0
5. Voc. Se. High School   2,81.7  22.0  1,140.8   456.4   170.6   841.4  1,1l2.5   82.4  11,666.
6. Diploma_end Degee     1,1817.4  70.4   872.1    87.8    0.8    24.4    56.?    6.5   1,721.0
Total                    4,108.0 196.9  4,856.0 18,178.4 2,641.6 45,115.6 15,781.6  160.0  68,766.7
C. Protected Increae In  VlowMt by Cdtion and Oacstiona. 160616
Educational                                    Occupation
Attainmet                                                                                   Total
Prtoes.  snag. Adin.  gales  Srvnice     A.      Frod.  Others
1. Primry School             4.9   0.7  (106.6) 1,415.1  (187.7) 2,M.0  1,49.8  (14.8   5,484.1
2. Ge. Jun. High School      7.0   1.0    60.8   686.2   70.6   071.2   477.6  (1.0   2,164.1
8. Vo.. Jun. Hlgh School    (41.4)  2.4     4.0   10.5   15.9   18.9   171.0   (.               .7
4. am. S"n. High School     64.3  86.0   642.8   840.0   17.0                209.7  $.    1,411.9
5. Voe. Son. Hih Scheol    460.4   9.8   822.J   179.9   44.2    61.0   460.2  11.    1,651.0
6. Dlpl_m and Dogres       448.1  29.0    20.6       7.0    0.9       5.6      0.8  (8.5    516.9
Total                      626.6  74.9   047.0  2,606.7    19.6  4,006.8  2,680.   (96.0) 11,510.7
Not.: Figures In parenthe  represent decrees".
Source: BAPPEIMS July 1969.



--32-                                           AM=X 2
Table 1
ZnDONESU
norESUZONAL HsHo" RZSOUlCS D_VnLOmnUN? PiOJECT
Cme osition of Civil Service. 1988
Description                                                     Nunber        z
TOTALS                                                        3.529.640    100.0
By SeX
Male                                                        2.430.070      69.1
pem le                                                      1,091.570      30.9
By Cate ory
Category S                                                    672,440      19.1
Category It                                                 2.356,100      66.8
Category III                                                  468.100     13.3
Category IV                                                    27.490       0.8
Von-POPS                                                        5.520       0.2
Bv Education
Elementary school                                             600.020      17.0
Junior high school
General junior high school                                  195,780      5.6
Vocational junior high school                               211,680       6.0
Senior high school
General senior high school                                  378,910      10.7
Vocational senior hlgh school                             1.628,440      46.1
College (Dtaholor. DS-SS-S1S)                                 319,710       9.1
University (51. 52. D IV-V. Specialist IS-S. 53)              195.110       5.5
B Serviceo Period
0-10 years                                                 2.019,650     57.2
11-20 year.                                                   617.970     17.5
21-30 yeare                                                   69a.020      19.8
31 years  nd above                                            194.000      5.5
By As*
18-25 year.                                                   321,680      9.1
26-35 years                                                 1.468.550      41.6
36-45 years                                                   970.020     27.5
46-56 years                                                   600.560     16.7
57 years  nd above                                            108.850       3.1
By Position
Zducation sector                                            1.509,250      42.8
Research sector                                                 1.890       0.1
Structural sector                                             207,100       5.9
Public prosecutors and judges                                   2,860       0.1
Physician                                                      15,320       0.4
Par amdie                                                     125.170       3.6
Others                                                      1.668,050      47.3
Dv Personnel Status
C!"1I servants                                              2.514,220      71.2
Pro$,eective PN8                                            1,015,420     28.6
Dy Location
Suatera                                                       724,440     20.5
Java                                                        1.944.420      55.1
Kalimentan                                                   211.040       6.0
Sulawesi                                                      327,790       9.3
Bali. NST. NTS. Maluku. Itlan Jay&. Timor Timur               321.150       9.1
By Svo of Pereonnal Status
Central PN8                                                 3.060,350      86.7
Regional PN8                                                  469.290      13.3
Sources BARN (Table 30-1 Repelita V).



INDONBSIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functional Structure for Researcherst Criteria and Cumulative Credit
Scores for Promotion
Job & Rank                             Level of Job/Rank/Credit Scores
Criteria                     Research Asst.    Research Aide          Researcher           Eziert Researcher
Jr.      Int.      Jr.     Int.       Jr.      Int.      Jr.      Int.    Prinripal
Factors        Percentage  III Is    III lb  III Ic   III /d    IV la    IV /b    IV Jc    IV /d    IV le
Education
Scientific
Paper                701       70        105     140       210       280      385       490       595       700
Acceleration
of Technology
Sclentiiif;;' 
#Ulicatioa
Participatioa.
In Scientific
Activities           'S        30         45       60       90       120      165       210       255       300
Fostering of
Scientific
Cadre
Scientiflc
Honours
Total            1001      100        150     200       300      400       550       700      850      1.000
Allowance            (Rp)   60.000    75,000  135,000  140,000  157,000  165,000  180,000  220,000   250,000



- 34-                                ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected University Admissions, Enrollments, Graduates, 1988/90-1993 /94
(in '0009)
1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94
SO Program
New students          101.2     116.6     126.1      142.3     146.4     152.1
Total enrollment     324.4      356.8     390.2      430.8     464.7     495.2
Graduates              68.3      73.6      80.9       88.5      97.8     105.4
S1 Program
New students          235.1     268.9     289.5      323.1     329.7     340.0
Total enrollment   1,234.8   1,353.9   1,472.1   1,603.6   1,717.9   1,819.4
Graduates              95.6     109.6     125.4      141.9     160.2     178.3
S2 and S3 Program
New students            N/A       N/A       N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A
Total enrollment      13.5       19.6      22.3       25.4      29.0      33.0
Graduates               2.2       3.2       4.6        5.3       6.0       6.8
Source: Repelita V.
I



DNDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUUUN RESOURCE OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumary of Main Activities of Interuniversity Centers (IUC). 1987188
Preperation of
ReOrech DrOjectu          tPostgraduate training /u         instructional aterial
moo of                                 No.       Staff       No. of publications/
Universities and IUC*               projects    Cost         Activity     enrolled man-monthe currIcule/prograas, etc.
RD
InstStutO of Technology (JiB)         24     420,000,000  Internships       874      1,218               16
- Biotechnology
- Life Sciences
- Engineerlng
- Microelectronics                                      Short course   1,027         811
Agricultural Institute,
Bogor (IP8)                         19     815,000,000 Credit             284         56N               142
- Biotechnoloy                                          Earning
- Life Sclences                                         Training
- Food and Nutrition
University of GCadjh Mads (uQM)       as     603,700,000  Seminars/       8,00C        868                169                            U'
- Biotechnology                                         Workshops
- Enginerino
- Food and Nutrition
- Economcs
- Social Studies
University of Indonesia (UI)           9     280,000,000                                                   98
- Econolcs
- Social Studios
- Computer Sciences
Open Universlty (UT)                  20      88,100,000                                                   81
- Instructional Materials
Developmnt
/a All training Is provided for university staff.
Source: DONE, MOEC Second University Development Project. Annual Report 1987/88.
Itgr



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Oversea Training
The Overseas Training Program
1.       More than 2,500 GOI fellows are training overseas at an annual cost
of about US$85 million. Bank-assisted projects over the period 1976-88 have
supported about 4,000 overseas fellowships for degree and postgraduate
courses, mainly in the fields of university teaching, science and technology
(research), agriculture and health (Table 1). About 400 fellowships for
postgraduate training are provided annually with bilateral assistance (Table
2). In 1982/83, the Government set up an Overseas Training Office (OTO), with
USAID and Bank assistance, to advise on national policy on overseas training
and to administer a general program of overseas training, and establish
effective selection and placement operations, and programs of English language
and academic preparation of candidates. The OTO has been very successful in
implementing a general overseas training program: over 10,000 potential
candidates have been tested, about 600 selected and placed in courses and 300
have returned from training. Although the OTO has overall responsibility for
advice on policy on overseas training, it shares responsibility for managing
overseas training with the following sector-specific overseas fellowship
programs:
(a) Science and Technology Training Project (Loan No. 2599-IND). Provid-
ing training for 1,350 staff of the non-departmental government
science research institutes (LPNDs) Funds under this project were
fully allocated by 1988, but an add'.tional 400 fellowships for
courses starting in 1988 and 1989 have been provided with OECF sup-
port;
(b) The Ministry of Finance (MOP) started a sectoral training program in
1981, for staff of the Ministry, the state banks and for staff in
finance positions in other ministries and agencies. The program has
produced about 180 masters degree holders and 5 Ph.Ds with about 120
fellows still under training. The program has been very successful
in providing a high quality cadre of staff in the Ministry;
(c) The Ministry of Education, has a large program of overseas training,
and since 1981 1,500 staff of the Ministry, the universities and
teacher training institutes have been sent overseas on Masters and
Ph.D. programs.
2.       The OTO program, the Science & Technology Overseas Fellowship Program
(OFP) and the MOF Sectoral Training Program all adopt rigorous procedures for
selection of candidates. In the case of the OFP, for example, the main test,
the Graduate Quantitative Examination, comprises six multiple choice sub-tests
based on the GRE used by US universities. All candidates undergo personality



- 37 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
and psychological tests and interview. Foreign language proficiency is not a
factor in selection, but the candidate must achieve the standard of pro-
ficiency required by the overseas university system before starting overseas
academic training. Of the initial 2,700 applications for postgraduate fellow-
ship only about 600 passed the selection tests and interviews. The OTO and
MOF use a similar Academic Potential Test (TPA) together with an English
language test. Candidates are required to reach minimum scores overall and in
each sub-test of the TPA and achieve a minimum score on the language test to
enter a Basic English Language Training course. In the case of OTO, over the
period June 1986 to September 1988, about 8,50C candidates took the selection
tests, but only about 940 were selected through the highly competitive exa-
minations.
3.       The following evaluation studies provide evidence of the value of
overseas training:
(a)  An impact evaluation of long-term overseas training commissioned by
the OTO and USAID found that overseas training contributed signifi-
cantly to subsequent career, with the majority of participants
attaining structural or functional positions, including many in very
senior positions.1/   The majority tended to remain in their
organiza ions, reported positively on the utilization of the skills
&cquired -verseas and on involvement in policy making, priority
setting & d technological dissemination as a result of overseas
training. Earnings were not investigated.
(b) A sample of participants who were sent overseas in the early 1980s
and who have returned for at least 18 months have been followed up
through intensive interviews and questionnaires.2/  This survey con-
firmed the positive view about the benefit of overseas training and
relevance to subsequent work.
(c)  Another case study has followed up a group of staff of the Ministry
of Education, universities and teacher training institutes wko com-
pleted training in Australia from 1970 to 1980.3/ The majority
reported positively on the relevance and practical application of
their training and on use of the skills acquired. The findings from
1/ Final Report on the Impact Evaluation on the Effects of USAID funded
Long-term Overseas Training on the Careers, Performance, Professional
Networks, and Contributions of Indonesian Participant Trainees.
Institute for Economics and Social Research, Faculty of Economics,
University of Indonesia, June 1989.
21 Problems of Re-entrys Personal and Institutional, An Early Indonesian
Case Study. Sedionc M.P. Tjondronegoro, Jakarta, June 1989.
31 Pease, Sumarno, Hutohir 'The Impact of Overseas Trainings A Case
Study of Sponsored Post-Graduate Training of Indonesian Students in
Australia". To be published in Southeast Asian Journal of EducatIonal
Studies, Vol. 26, 1989.



- 38 -                        ARM   4
Page 3 of 3
this study supported the commonsense view that the presence of over-
seas trained colleagues and supervisors Increased significantly the
benefit of trainings this finding supports the importance of a
critical mass of overseas-trained staff.
4.       Only a small proportion of OPP fellows have completed training but
ths program has also given considerable attention to re-entry. The re-entry
program includes monitoring the employment and experience of fellows after
return and planning for those due to return. Experiences are shared through a
regular program of seminars for returned fellows and supervisors,
questionnaires and publication of a newsletter. A recent evaluation of the
re-entry process of the OPP, by an external consultant, has resulted in recom-
mendations on improvements in re-entry, which are being incorporated into an
action plan.4/
4/ Preliminary Assessmert of the Re-entry Process, Overseas Fellowship
Program, Re-entry Section, OFPIU in cooperation with DIAN Stuient
Services, Jakarta, April 1989.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fellowships for Overseas Training included in World Bank Loan Prolects
by Level of TraininR and Ministry, 1976-88
Ministry or            Bachelors
Agency               Degree        Masters           Doctorate         Total
Education and Culture      --          1,049                461            1.510
Agriculture           ,   300            281                321              902
Research and Technology   --             650                250              900
Finance                    --            125                  5              130
Health                     12             95                 12              119
Family Planning
Coordinating Board       --             58                 --              58
Manpower                   --             26                  2               28
Public Works               00             56                 00               56
Home Affairs               --             10                 --               10
Transmigration             --             10                 --              10
Total                 312           2,360              1,051           3,723



- 40 -
LNNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dilateral-Assisted Graduate-Level Overseas Fellowships by Country
(1985-87)
1985            1986             1987             Total
Country           Masters  PhD    Masters  PhD    Masters  PhD    Masters  PhD
Australia             70      20       90      34      80       19     240      73
Belgium               12       1        6       0      10        1      28      2
Canada                10       0       16       0      28        1      54      1
France                20      28      20       11       0       41      40     80
Germany               20       0        4       0       2        0      26      0
Italy                  0       0        0       1       0        0       0      1
Netherlands            8       0       12       0       6        0      26      0
United Kingdom        33       4       59       2      53        0     145      6
USA                   89      10      122      23     190       16     401     49
Total            262       63     329       71     369       78     960    212
Sources Cabinet Secretariat, 1988.



-mm
I~ _. he _ of
04umilaatB..             b.  iead. Catlim              i_..g.,  i blkr   T.o.l aAnd.  M. bAd. On. rAnd. On   Aim. _1.  ;Ad. 61 mad. bt.  a"
bal.      (U)    51         90     U
-    lb:                       f W  44i 4   I                            21 14T   1m M                                        # U
71n.7                  7.0    1.5       s.e    1.1    1M0   7.7          2.6        U7.6        01.0          .6        #.S U.4
M         NO: fl'e(t        2:217       M    1.04          b        iU                                         19 ti                   1.011 5t.6
*             5.2      I 10.5    5.              1        0  12.1         0.0        t.,         011.6        6.0         7.40
lb  i               2?       971i 3        U11            10, "
I             U.S       0.2     8.0      0.6    0.1    L0   0.1          i0.0         4.6        57.3          .1 3..6                too
lb:      Tr.       7%        lis   1.         in      is0 . 2 U     O           0         971 i2    on
1             81.4      4.5     W.S      7.8    1.$    160   0.2          0.0         1.1        £0.1         8.1         7.1          up
tX~~~~~,                                       1.1:       "                      "4          IN           11i9   §"    t    *t 1,OU
*             U.S1      8.3    01.9      1.1    0.50     U    6.          0.9        19.1        U.1          1.5        05.1         LU
ir2                    I S:"   23          M    in0             ,0a    US           15         m an                                 U        9.046
U             5.4       8.4    U.8       6.5    8.2    ML   9.0           0.8        11.0        U.&         U.0          1.0         LU
AlI LM0 ND 'I&(IM          15619    1,0   5,46          0       114  11,su  1'7m       1,107       I'm         *,S 7,                    4,0      112.881
.:    1.T        14 U,     1,794    *,1       an    1U7 21., 
*              9".7     0.4    16.1      2.6    0.94    U    6.5          8.         18.1        44.0         8.6        5.0           M
*               --       -      £0.8    13i.0    4.1     -   61.6i       ti.ti S5.t              74.0  '       .          t.S 
S                                                            s0.?                    U.t                     15.1                     LU10
garce. RAM1 Fresno aw11.m       lem Plan. volow S.



11M.A.M.Cgr  dwi.111.a  0..  TO    AM". bo. A=. bo.   nd. owl. An.d. boo. An.d. boo. Aned. 1101l. %ftS
-                                       11    W0        U               B               0           so                                             86
s            10.7      8.6    "6.      19.6    0.0    100  5.0          0.0        81.6         0.0        11.8        10.?        100
FIr Z"w   lb     10,744    1,6=    I,5        8        1 14.151.110'       I.864.06111% .s         i.t           S61       2.97      14,1111
tb            10.4      1.674   1.86       44       1 14.125
U        ~~~~~78.9  1.8.    11.3    0.8    0.0    10  0S.0          11.1        181.51      4.0          1.5        21.0        10011
6            617.1     .8.      6.9     0.1    0.0    100   1.4         1.8         8.4        61.6         1.4        80.?         100
PT Pam       166      4.81       66      151       1       1   .02e9                           8         .644         18        1,618      150
H.   7u  m  4.86       a"0      10        1      1,  81:06
1            617.81     7.6     4.6     0.0    0.0    100   7.1         1.9         1.9        64.6         4.8        81.0         100
I~~~~{~~~  1         1       1;                     M               5 8                     1688                           
*         66~~~~~.1  4.8    6.8     0.0    0.0    10    9.8         10.1         0.4        49.4         1.1        19.7       1No
PT InA-   mm                                  115        I                  w           W          I" 164    .11 61 11                 us     7.069
S            91.8      8.7      8.1     0.0    0.0    100   2.3         0.6         23.        63.?         0.6         1.4         no0a
F'r DKA   No                       2 4                      : :n718      a          21           a         467                     la16       7*8
6         66~~~~~.1  8.4    8.51    0.0    0.0    100   8.6         2.9          0.6        66.9         2 4        20.1        10o
P~~~~~~~~~~~                 :~~~n i   IS                   1  t:2             1470                    O"1          84          my7      1.4111
*            76.4      9.1    12.4      0.0    0.0    100   5.1        11.8         4.6        617.81       1.8        66.010
F.3ALSu  lb  1/150            1        2       43       4       0    194    M0          0           48          7?          t0          40        194
Li"I     It. WUM.?..         119       20      48       4       10   194
S            61.6      14.4    63.2     2.)    0.0    10   .11.         0.0        10.1        so6.?        5.1        21.6         n00
ALL.' CTA     z.Tl        C:,       1 3."    It61       6       8,  6.97  1,897      2.048       1.671      10.41111       671       7,661     84,978
DLL SINA  o:                  M :   8,06    1.5        69M8,1
8         U~~~~~.?  8.8     6.$      01:.          100   8.,4        8.6         7.4        864          1.9        11.0        100
*  -      -    97.9     1.6    0.1    100  48~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.1  81.  11.1  868.4                  911.6          -
3                                                           661.9                  80.0                    18.110



-43     NK 
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
f~~~~~~~~jijI !lX
IIj. j 
I;~~~~........ 



O#ESIA
PROFESSiOAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Orgenisatbon of Agency for Evaluation an        icato  of Tecnoogy
1O HAIRMAN
DEPUTY     ow"T                             ww~
FMA            FM           CHAACACHI c*MWnHO I
SAMIAM                      FOORy FCSTRL    FOR NATWAL      FOM SYSTE       FOR SYSTEB
APPLUED SC04CE   OEWLOP4T        A              W-SOURCES       ANAlYSIS      AMY1TRAflON
BASiC    SETTHUM4       MACHE AND        NAnuAL        crmwPERONEI                    TECHNCJAL
SCB4ES         AMD TM          WRd            aom              AMD              AMND
- i.~ia. -  RCSSTRES   "venom                           TRAWG          WITS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. 
WFE  ?CUTNA                                                                 E NDM*RA
SCENE        IUTR&PROCESSSSB       AMNH      MW*RAS         SYSTEMS        FUDANCE AMD
SCOCES  PFtMSSES  ENGINEOM         EaaURCE        ANAlST          FACLITES
_o w-.oea                                                                 t   ay for
TECH4AL          A           SECURT AND I                                                  
SCIE                                       MOM .E"                                    as Laody "I1
SINE CSEWOSTRATEGY                                          Pro u 1    0
OF ENERGY      fA'TRIES       ASSESOW4NT       SYSTEMS        FREATIOS       .dM
T
4. A ~IUlud 
MARINE          ANDSfVRL                                   SALATS1KVSO
SCIENCES                                                    AND WMA-  __       AND       a.        UR~USS 
WFORMAT1C       STRUCOTUNE                    ..                0 COTROL    a    
TM                                                     00f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttaurm so
OIKECTORATE                                                                 =ur"y Me
LFOR PHYSICAL 
FACIUTE AMD
LASORA1VSLor



- 45 -                               ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Training Office (OTO): Summary of
Proposed Research Program, 1990-94
Overseas Training Policy Studies
- Establishment of comprehensive database of overseas training
- Comparative studies of costs of overseas training, including tuition, sub-
sistence and other allowances
- Training needs projections for selected ministries and other agencies
Strategies and Procedures for Preparat4-tn of Fellows for Overseas Education
- Comparative study of selection and p,eparation procedures for all existing
major overseas training programs
- Comparative study of selec ion and preparation for different programs send-
ing fellows to the USA for st:.dy
- Longitudinal study of OTO fellows selected in 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988,
including selection, placement, performance in education and training and
follow-up after return
- Comparative studies of cost and effectiveness of different English language
training programs and contractors
- Comparative studies of residential and nonresidential predeparture language
training
Indonesian University Grading Systems and Interpretation of These Systems for
Overseas Universities
Reentry and Follow-up of Overseas Fellows After Return From Training
- Study of reentry of returned OTO fellows
- Establishment of reentry information system
i          - Evaluation of outcomes and benefits of overseas training through long-term
tracking of samples of: (i) returned OTO fellows; (ii) returnees from other
programs; (iii) control group without overseas training.
OTO Small Grant Program to Stimulate Relevant Research



INDONESIA
PROFESSIONRL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Tralnan Office: Indicative Targets for Fellowshie Program:
vrrorLtl7eTujana  ey1nmistries anpp.!enc7les..vuw.-J
A. Identified Priority Areas for Study and Training
Sustainable development                           Mana8ement for selected
Public Policy                                 and environment                              public and Private enter-prises
uconalicp                                       Environmental science                          Industrial management
Public poliev                                  Environmental en ineering                       Business administration
Public administration (provincial              Pollution control                               Personnel administration
and local government)                        Legal and policy issues                         Marketing
Lav (international, commercial,                                                                StandardslQuality Control
patent, etc.)
Social policy
Arade
Tourism
Personnel policy
B. Initial Indicative Target Allocations by Ministry/Agency la
MinistrynAgency   Participants      Ministry/Agency   Participants   MinistryjAaency         Participants         Totals _
I. HEISAN
BAPPEXAS       MA        110        MLA H                     50      DEPERDAG            MA        70     MA       230
LAN            PhD         S        DPROWND        PhD         4      DEPERIND            PhD        6     PhD       15
SERNEG         Trng       70        DEPHUT         Trng       35      BUMNs               Trng      55     Trng    160
DEPDAGRI
II. DEPERDAG
DEPERIND       MA         8S        DPU            MA         40      LSU                 MA        65     MA       190.
LSM            PhD         5        DEPTAN   |    PhD          3      PTS                 PhD        4     PhD       12
DEPPEN         Trng       70                       Tr?g       25      SHE                 Trng      40     Trmg    135
DEPSOS
III.  DEPLU
PARPOSTEL      MA         s0        DEPTRANS       MA         40                                           MA       120
DEPAG          PhD         3        DAPPERAS       PhD         3                                           PhD        6
DEPURB         Trng       55        LSHI            Trng      25                                           Trng      s0
Kajagung
IV. Other (unallocated)                                                                                         MA        s0
PhD       4
Trng     75
Total           MA        275                                 130                                   135              620
PhD       13                                  10                                    10               37   t |
Trng     195                                  85                                    95              450   ' 
la  The numbers in Part B reflect the initial assessment of priorities and needs but they are not tquotas and the table
will be reviewed and revised annually in the light of eperience.



- 47 -
ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finance Training (Ministry of Finance)s Initial Targets
for Fellowship Program, 1989/90 - 1993194
Target Ministries/Agencies
Depkeu
Deperdag
Deperind
Deplu
BKPM
State bankslinsurance
Priority Areas for Study and Training
MA/PhD
Business administration
Public policy
Financial management
Economics
Short-Tenm Training (Including Domestic)
As for MA/PhD training together with
specialist subjects such as:
Project management
Taxation
Valuation
Customs/excise
Data management
Target Fellowship Allocations
1989/90
Predeparture training        t 83 candidates
Initial (predegree) overseass 31 (start MA/PhD programs September 1989)
1990/91-1993/94
Annual intakess
Overseas: MA                                               30
PhD                                            15
Nondegree training                             30
Domestic (mainly nondegree specialist training coursess 30



-48-
ft1g  and T_loBg f I Xr ot  lo_ot>s bor"omt to ST
Outline Ter_. otf le rece for SMm  Dvolomnt and Planning Sti
I.   IVPur  on2U! are.  Ing>it 9 s 2   ^ _onthp international conga Int)
1.   Walrl  ro strengthen the operation of the  at:onal I Resrch Council     10) by *ssiting
th  CoSsi   Se S cretarlat to fac liltat etflcelnt ee notion of DUO   _ Itt        I in the r role
of advslino the Minister of State for R serch and Technoloy In the setting of national
polices and prlorities for science  nd technology and re rch and dev.lopmnt.
2. Se_ndm N blor To se
a) Evaluation of-current operation  and  e        Int of I s_u
(b) Preparatlo of outline plan and budget for operation of the 006 Secretariat ever a five-
year period
ec ldentlficati.e of stafnlog and training meods
d) Deelga eyt   and procedure for comiselontn and mlple cntino policy studies
Conduct of sminor to revie findings
Preparation of dsto lad plan for DRN operation over 'Muo-year period
Development of stadard operatin proe dur e for DRN and Ito s  *ereriat
Doevl oment of formats for standardizing reporting
(I Provid  maas adve and support to the O   secretariat
S. 9u4uA   ( ad del ry time)
(ITIi -lieeem   Report                                                             (2 emnths)
b)Outline plan for 03N opertilons                                                 (4ekr
e)Detalled plan for DRN                                                            m months
cd) Qu rterly and final report
II. SCMENO  ADTCNLQ   EENH NDO  CY STUDY
(Dur tloni     a ftar    Input s tl *F t_onth  International and es staff-moths domstic
cmosultante)
1. ObJectIve
jil5;jihesolve asseseast dof SAT litrastrueture, Including public and private Intitu-
tions. man_.wer, legislatIon and funding
(b) Developmen_ of an aetio plan eovering "nstitutlonal chbang, Iliolative  lnitiatives and
funding  tOret
2. SaO" ndMlot Ta*ks
C Ui~ii4i      iIiIe             " instrumento and procedures
- Collectin ot dsta on current SAT reserch (relovant to Industry), SAT mnpower.
research outputs, funding  free min AD Institute., universities, private RAO labs
(b) Ph     o t: ODto Analn ti
- AnIlys lov oftesre being conducted, m*npower utilization, legislation and funding
- Identification of key Issues
(e) Ph Ie t2]    Policy Recom   *tions
~~it1iiV~~I1iii i  loas, for:
- *tt ogt .ing of SAT Institutions
- I ololtlve op41ong
- tuegieTa( nd oIonet   ortilcipation of private sector)
- R eca ndations and findig  to b  presented to * National Confernce and workshop
(d) Ph     ew loO et   ctIon Pigs
rt pt ton of *tnog  Tr pr  ent eon to Cabinet by 1inlster for Reserch and Tech-
nology. lncludino apetfic aetlons, draft policies, budgete, Institutlonal changs and
legiolation requlrd.
a.  0ME4
a   a   collectlon plan                                                           (2 months)
Dt e D ports                                                                    10 months)
Sumary   alyslo                                                               (18 months)
Cd) Aeeeemsnt report and nocemeendations                                          (17 months)
*) Conference proeding                                                            (20 months)
f) Draft actlon plan                                                              (27 months)



-49-                                         ANNEX 8
Page 2
M. PRIORITIES FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT INDUSTRIAL DEVELOUOENT
(Duration:  8 years.  Inputs:  100 staff-es inths International aroo staff-months domestic
consult nts)
1. Obtctiv-v:  To identitfy requirements for SAT developments for technologtoe  to be importod,
adipt d or developed snd SAT manpower, to be utilized In major industrial sectors. To
develop an vction plan for meeting the requirements.
2.  ScO.  and M lor Task*
(a) Phc- I
733        Srve;nd,0+
*!~trial SreanData Collection for Baseline Profile of UAT In Indus ry
m Rview d"ta on industries In selected sector-e-(i  c-oniunction wih  P,      rind,
BKPU, etc.) covering:  products, processes, patentI cens", RD, funding, con-
;traint, manpower.
Prepare survey instruments and collect data from a sample of tfirm
- Establishment of Economic/Industrinl Base Line
--Review related economic policies, e.g., on trade, deregulation, Investment, role of
public and private sectors
- Review investment plans
- Review existing efforts and policies to promote technology
(b) Phase TT: Analysis of Datea and Assessment
- General assessment of major issues relnting to SAT In Industrial development, includ-
Ing: constraints, stats of SAT, manpower aspects
- Analysis of specific technology dt icIoncies
(c) Phase III: Industrial SAT Need Anoly ;-
- On the basis of plausib'e industrial developswnt scenarios, analyze the SAT require-
ments (technologies, skills, investmnt, etc.)
- Evaluation and assessment of actions required to satisfy the needs
(d) Phase TV: Action Plan
- Preparation of recoamendations
- Present findings and recomnmndations to National Conference and workshope
- Prepare action plan for submission to Cabinet and other bodies
a.  OuDu
S   YBiie Ino profile of SAT In Industry                                            (11 months)
(b) Assesm_ ne  nd evaluation and Industrial development scenarlos                  (18 months)
Cc) Report on priorities for SAT to support industrial development                  (18 months)
d) Draft action plan                                                               (27 months)
IV. DESIGN STUDY AND PLANS FOR SAT RESEARCH INFORMATION NETWORK (IPTEIGET)
Wuratton:  1 year.  inputs:  16 staff-monthv International consultants)
1. Obi Jtes
(x) To d tgn a Science A Technology Information (STI) Network based on analysis of current
STT services and needs
(b) To develop, ipleoment and operate a prototype systm
(c) Boasd on the prototype, to prepare technical, operating and financing plans for complet-
Ing the network
2. Boakoround:  A  eries of workshope have been conducted on a Scientific Documentation and
Xnio-rmoFi n System with the assistance of the US National Academy of Scienes.  An action
plan has been prepared but tho full notwork has not developed. However, there Is In exis-
tence a network linking several Indonoesin universitieo.
S. Sco a nd M lor Tasks
(a) Evaluation of current situation, needs, existing service, mnpowr
(b) Developmnt of ralistic options for the network, technical design, participants and
dministration
(e) Prepare spectfications for network, based on findings and outcomes of a workshop, and
prepare dotailed implementation plans
(d) Installation, oporation and evaluation of a prototype network of limited size
(e) Preparatton of revised plans for full noetwork based on evaluation of prototype
4.  Outouts and Schedule
sRport on eva uatton and development of options                                  (8 months)
-(b) Specifications                                                                  (4 months)
(c) Initial Implementation plan                                                      (6 months)
(d) Final implemntation plan                                                        (10 months)



- 50 -                                             ANNEX8
V. DEVELOPMENY OF SYSTEM FOR NATIONAL SAT PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Durationt 1 year. Inputs: 24 staff-months of international consultant)
1. Ob_l_ctiv     To develop and lmploment a practicable system of analysis of SAT projects and
proposa  , p rticularly relating proposed outputs with national objective  and assessing
economic feaslbilty of proposals. To provide a rational basis for allocation of resources
for SAT
2. Scoes anci Mior Took*
( ) Phas e                a thodoloDy and Baseline Assesment
- Establies methodology for compilation, review and analysis of research proposals
- Design framework and instruments for analysis and evelustlon of proposals and ongoing/
completed projects such as benefits, outpute and cost.
- Establish database of projects and proposals for 1990/91
(b) Phn- II: Pilot Proj ct
Implement 'method and instruments for sample of projocts In database
- Review results In workshops
(c) Phase III: Implementation
- Establih rules, procedures and operations
- Establish system for progress monitoring and evaluation of completed projocts
- Training of staff in operation of system
S. Out uts
(i  Bse line assement                                                                (8 months)
(b  Pubilcatlon of instruments and procedures                                        (9 months)
(c) Staff training                                                                  (10 months)
VI  DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF AN SAT INFORMATION SYSTEM
(Duration: 8 years. Inputs: 100 staff-months International and 100 staff-months domestic
consultants)
1. Obl ctives:  To develop and imple"ent a computerlzd Information system to gather, verify and
store UT-date; to process data to provid SAT Indicators for mesuring status, evaluating
capabllitles to conduct RAD, manage Imported technology, proJect nods, etc. Provide an MIS
to assist In decision-making on priorities, funding, monitoring, *tc.
2.                  T sks
(a) Phnco 1I An-lis of Requirement.
- Auesmet and review of S&T dUta
- Comparative study of available SAT Indicators
- Review SAT organizational framework
- Dovelopment of model
(b) Plhns Ilt Dove oo nt
- Sy-tk   d-eign   tonfiguratlon, softwre , layout of reporting, etc.
- Develop software for databases  application programs, file transfer, publishing
- Developmnt of testing and vorffication procedures
- Specification of hardware .nd software
(c) Phase III:  Detailed Design
- Detoiled d- ign of application programn, guidelines, procedures and instruments
- Procurement of hardnwar
(d) Phase IV: Srstem ImoImoentstion
- Installation of hardware
- Preparation of documentation
- Training
(e) First SAT Report
a. oytput.E
(iVRi6ort on analysis                                                              (6 months)
(b) Systems design                                                                 (10 months)
( c) Det4leod design                                                                (14 months)
d)Syst m iplementatIon                                                             (29 months)



- 51 -                                               a
i.sTo Desab lob off bleNlt hmsan resoure  plorning sad menaeot   t a                   In UPT
to increase mnper productiv ity, Improve staf motivation, Improve porftonco,
acrosse job eatisfablc  and raim qualty of output
2. Sea      d    oWer Tak
o b                   Idate on strcture and  afof s    Clatirity lisue
lysis of mIn profsoal and support jobs
go end sot up eempoUotsi    peronnel imforetlon syst
sgn -, so  up system for dotoralining st     neods and at loating stff
w R  /    ateo  of pr st funltonal structure for reserchers, and deign a proftes-
slol   Actlenal crmer structure for at l"eat WI of profeslonal end technical Staff
of MP' and LIPI, Including cost estimtes
(f) Deoele,. and Implat instruments and preoedures for annual performanc appralsal
t  Train staff and tst system on pilot basis
(h Olan ad mplmet careor planning systems baed on the functional strucures and per-
formnes appraisal systems
(1) Oetson and lplaemt systems for Identificatien of staff training nees, *electlon of
trainee, external traning, reentry and follow-up
S.   Outot
W14Ui-ort on baselIne                                                              (S ooths)
() Coplet job analysis                                                            (9  onh
c) Function l crer structure and appraisal syates                                (12 month
d Complete pilot t     of functional strucure and appralosl                       24 mth)
e) Pilot test of career doelop_est system                                         24 month
f) Implementation of all  ystems                                                 (m nths)
VIII.              AD Dn ot SYSTEMIS FOR BPT ND LPI
@tltons I year. lnpdtst X4 noTT-Wanteo * eh or ona nenal and dometic consultants)
1.  fWkIt4i   To sxuain the financing of reserch and other activities at BPPT and LIPI, to
idutify I       nssues in f neaning and finnclal managemt to ensure maximum output for money
spent and to Identify soures of finance other than Governmnt grant
2. Scoa   lor Tooke
(a) Rimivi mmd *ii    nt of cesta and revenues, cost accounting practices and financial
mangmnt
(6) Identification of major ilsoou
Cc) Identifie tlon of services to be provided for private and pubilc sector.
Id Conduct of workshop to discuss issues
o  Corduet of mrketing survey and preparation of marketIng plan to define servies, market
potential income
(f) Assessment of  institutional, organizational, legal change  requird
(g) Prepre recommendetio ns and changes required In financial mnagment systems ad proe-
dures and staffing
*.  Oueot
IiYii eeumat  report                                                              (S months)
bMrketlng plan                                                                 (7 months)
Inorated financial sestm plan                                                 (10 moths)
dFINl report                                                                  (2 montho)
IX. #&     YMM    AND DESIGN OF OCE P   MINISTRATION SYS  IN OPPT AND LIP!
iDura ton:  yIer.   nputs   4         mon      c  o  I        rntonnl and domestic consultants)
1.  ujbetivess To examine the, off ie administration and procedures at OPPT and LIP, to iden-
iTfyiitii  an od to prepare recommendationa to lsprove systems and increase ff iciency
2.  acooe and  alcor Tooke
(a)         M of ;r'rnt offlce administration and support systmem  and procedureos  covering
for example staff management, procurment, suppl ie. meintenance, comeunications
b) Asseemet of constraints of GO! regulations
Identification of key lisuem
d) Conduct of workshop to diecuss iosse  and constraint.
D*evlop proposale and reoemndutions to modify or Introduce new administrative and
office systems and procedures.  Identify Institutional and staff changes, costs, savings
and bonofits, with priorities
(f) P   r       mntone and aetion plan
8.   ututs
1iY@Ao _smoot report                                                               (a months)
Cb Recommendations and proposals                                                   10 mnths)
Flaol report and setion plan                                                   12 Months)



- 52 -                                            9
INDOMESIA
PRO ZSSIONAL HUMAr RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Science and Technology (STAID) Fellowship Program MIY 1990191-1993194)
Overseas fellowships       Domestic fellowships
Target agency              Sl/a   82  S3  Training  Slb  SZlc  S3  Training  Total
LPNDS
BAKDSURTANAL               4      6   -      4        8     -    1       2        25
SATAN                     28    41  16      11        -    32    3       1       132
BPPT                      17    32  18       7       16    23    7       6       126
BPS                       20    24   2       2        -    77    3       -       128
LAPAN                     24    18   5       5       37     5    -       4        98
LIPI                       3    67  15      13        6    12    5       7       128
Subtotal               96   188  56      42      67   149   19      20        637
Strategic Industries
PT IPTN                   44    40   2      42        8     6    -      18       160
PT PAL                     3     8   2      34        3     6    -       6        62
PT PINDAD                 20      -   -     34        -     5    -       4        63
PT Peru  Dhana             -     1   -       2        -     -    -       2         5
PT Krakatau Steel          2    22   5      36       10     8    -      14        97
PT INK                     -      3          4        2     -    -       4        13
PT INTI                    -    14   1      12        -     -    -       2        29
Pusat LEN LIPI             6      5   -      6        -     -    -       2        21
SDPIS                      -      41         -        -     2    1       1         9
Subtotal               75    97  11    172       23    27    1      53        459
Other and Special Units      -    20   5      18        2     5        -            50
Total                 171   305  72    232       92   181   20      73      1 146
GRAND TOTAL                  780                       366
la S1 fellowships will be awarded only for study in subjects which are not yet
developed in Indonesia or for which the capacity is inadequate. Courses will
normally be arranged as  cooperative  or  sandwich  courses with integrated
industrial training. It is also expected that arrangements will be completed
with universities and polytechnics in the UK for the first two years of the
courses for some fellows to be taken in Indonesia.
/b 51 fellowships will normally be awarded to domestic students at the final-year
stage only.
/c Normally arranged as Olink programs involving partnerships between domestic
universities and research institutes or industry or as links with overseas
institutions.



- 53-
ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
PROPESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVMLOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Consultant and Specialist Services. 1990191-1993194
Consultant
services
Duration Astaff-months)
Component and activity                                    Location (years)   roreagn  Domestic
Imnroved Planning and management of RRD
nM- Po-ncy ana rLannlnm
rolicy ana comparative studies                  BAPENAS-HRD        3          72      216
Systems developmntlimplementation               BAPPENAS-HRD       3         36       108
Trainings development of courses                BAPPNAS-HRD        2         24        24
Training:  implementation                       BAPPENAS-HRD       3           3       60
Subtotal                                                                   135       408
010 Institutional Development
benior a0visorivorKing groups (domestic)        RAPPENAS/OTO       3         52        36
Financial management                            BAPPENASIOTO       3         52        36
Research advisor/working groups (domestic)    EAPPENASIOTO         4          64      120
Subtotal                                                                   168       192
Professional and Managerial Staff Development
vIu rei.omwnio rrogran
Eanguage coora mators/advisors                  BAPPENAS/OTO       4         40        36
Acadamc counsellor                              WAPPENAS/OTO       2          48        -
Testing specialist(s)                           RAPPENAS OTO       3           4       36
Training specialist(s)                          BAPPENASIOTO       3         60        54
Subtotal                                                                   152       126
MOF Finance Trainina Program
Stara  aevelopmenz ana tralning needs analysis       MOF           4         48         -
Science and Technology for Industrial Development
(5TAID2
m rovement in S&T Policy Analysis and Manaee-
ment-
TSflpport for National Research Council           DRN/Ristek       2          24         -
Establish S&T Policy Unit                           BPPT           2         24         -
S&T research and policy study                       BPPT           3         51        65
Pr$nrities for S&T for industrial development       BPPT           3        100       100
Desrgn studf and plans for establishkng
research  naformation network                     LIPI           1         16         -
Development and implementation of systems and
procedures for project analysis                   BPPT           1         24         -
Development and implementation of personnel
planning and management systems                 BPPTILIPI        3        100       100
Desigz  an  implementation of S&T Information
system                                            LIPI           3        100       mnO
Assessment and design of finance and budget
systems                                         BPPTILIPI        1         24       24
Assessment and design of office administra-
tion systems                                    BPPTILIPI        1         24        24
Design and implementation of HRD planning and
management systems in selected strategIc
industries                                     Strat. Ind.       2         48      100
Subtotal                                                                   535      513
Science and Technology Staff Development and
~rInin-
nt advisor                                   PIU          4          48        -
Monitoringlevaluation advisor                        PIU           4         48
Contract administration                              PIU           4         48
Financial administration                             PIU           4         48
Subtotal                                                                   192         -
/a Services to be provided under contracts estimated at Rp 300 million/year each.



- 54 -
AMNEX 11
Table 1
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OTO: Proiected Full Time Staff 1989190-1993/94
Present           Proposed Staffing
1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94
Director                                1         1        1         1        1
Offices  Staff                          1         2        2         2        2
Division I: Selection & Testing
Read                                    1         1        1         1        1
Assistant (Selection/Testing)           -         -        1         1        1
Staff                                   2        3         5         5        5
Assistant (Language/Prep.)              -         -        1         1        1
Staff                                            1         2         2        2
Division II: Placement/Monitoring
Head                                    1         1        1         1        1
Assistant (Degree)                      -         1        1         1        1
Staff (Education Officers)              4        6         6         6        6
Assistant (Non-Degree Training)         -         -        1         1        1
Staff (Training Officers)               1        2         3         3        3
Division III: Systems & Evaluation
Head                                    1         1        1         ;        1
Assistant (Research & Eval.)            -         1        1         1        1
Staff                                   3         4        5         5        5
Assistant (Systems)                     -         -        1         1        1
Staff                                   -        1         4         4        4
Division IVs Administration/Finance
Head                                    1         i        1         1        1
Assistant (Finance)                     -         1        1         1        1
Staff                                   3         4        5
Assistant (Administration)              -         -        1         1        1
Staff                                   3        3         4         4        4
Total                             22       34        49       49        49



-55-
-M                                                                   M
WA Towboleal Asa.e..  4..alA   Pmae  11aa
0 Sussman. Pion.un- .
*    TeatolmIVo Alint..       1, .0
10.00      .
Ur54? PrIwItlan fhi ladan-                      I a  1.00                     0
*i  U_IIaotm    i (STIU          Diret.         1.00
Staff~~~    00.,
Pr.J.t bnlpa. W  A Lin
*    ow. el  Plteanni. atgmr                  'I.:00
Strauss* god"Staff                   10.O
sr hllo uwt                                      B
* _tmb.I.bti                     S hinig..    _3.0
Otafr         4 0.00 
* P     dmt 0. tp.    O                        0D
Staff,       1.000
CoT i1_als yam n                kmd            0.9
* Ada. 4 Of sme   ."NW                         . 0o0
S_Jff        13.0 a'                                                a
50   a rciPOam                   Dira t hfletr, 10                   
Strnesi Zadet..                 Stf 2*0 un
*eSl.a P!st.   1.    t             i           0
. mm. & Eoo|. owto               _Xt           011
* .iitrtu *     S0 atia.         Mmm           0.0 t 
Stff          4.00
* Pramrmmt Stea etS.             Mmmd          0. so
Staff,       S.O-SO
* Cstrae a S eition               Md           0.80
ftaff         S .00
* Pic Suiti..                    Shed          0.°0
SOUf          2.00
Camoal P.V lIO       flU         Director      0.0 
MSa. LPrep.L Omei.n             Mmmed         0.00
* She. * buS. 50.01..,           Mmd _0.90
Pr wOds lb.  0.1.               "NW           4 70.0
opr  Th GTM     T ZWA  SWaf          190.0 
*zrpcf UiMT                 Saf           00 
* Sm.r* Sagl.*                   Mmmd4         0.0 t 
Staf          0.00
* Publ "              1" 0.0
Total 1.opaITim iwr r               ctr      1o,.1      .
fi  orld _M  Spot    lrlUr       OAR                       M       an         l1    1 A   J     t     S 49      7|        175    t JO



IUOESIA
PMESSIt  HUMAN RESUM  OEVELOPMC  PROJECT
*     Status of Prolect PrEmation
CoMonent                   Lgal  inst.mto          Orpnlgatton/Staff Ing        ProemtSelection of follows
NO Policy Plannina and lIntltional 0.olo...t
ge Poicy/P' inning (SAPPEN)                N/A                       N/A            CUnltant VWd                           N/A
Universities providing
training identifiod
Overses Training Policy (OTO)       Deere to stablIsh      Senior Staff In poet.      N1  builIdln  to be
INatlonal Cu.ittee on   Addittonal st    to be    ava lable  WIM.
Oversaw* Training,      Identified for agreed     Plans/cot. e    _tit
Natiomal Stesrl         poete                     reviewd 07/SO
signed 00/U9
Staff Trainim Proore             )                                                    Fellowhip support        Firt be   started 1ialuag/
= Ic  e identf led or   prederture training 07/U
0T Fell_owhip Pror_m                                                                        I    pe pared
TARe agreed 10/SO
Finane (MWF) Fellowship Program   Dcre for progrm         Staff to be aigned         Outline TOR for support  LNWd ppraory
mnezm nt reviowed 1"/U           _leno eIe agree 07/U                        train nlg end lnitiol oversee
P    _oposed solo-source  trainlng In proso
appolinmen
STAD
STAID PolIcy & Managemnt         ) OcDo   for              Senior stAff a*rly         (Draft TgR agree  07/U
) projoct magessment      aIgne   all1 stff have    Proposd cos. ltant/
) oralnzation agreed        en nominated              sbort lIte portially
10/O                                                identified
STAID Fellowship Progrm                                                                 O ( ll  TORs agreed    Initial batch   lted
f Support agncie
< i fdentified for
tmajority of cowntries
#1r
5.



.. .       * *  * 
PROFaPSISILM 16    R    E E      MET PIOJECT
MY Usntornla Iedictors
08/81,01                 03/81/01                   08/al/n                      03/SlI9
He  Pollcy/PInning (IAPPENS) Initial training of trainers Pr.vinecil/Local training  Regional i0O plan ppred
completed                for Replit. VI.
Oversee Tralning Pollcy (OTO)                               Policy review of:
Selection
Lanwg training
C-to
FPl lowsble Trainnl  Proor_
All Prg                     Obetv evaluative eo          Ea  YVear:
lot    h placement. far     5jeiit    evalution of placemts
rPlev..                            *   Specialization relevant to  tltutionnl ne
* Progress of f*llows
*  Proportion of wo_m  to Incre_  annually to 253 by OS/S/W
Objwettiv elvaltion of renntry:
*  Posts emark  for fel1ow* expected to return during following peer
*  Appointmnt to posts of fel lowv  returne  during prylou yrea *.g., pet;
tising after eturn; follow-up report
Reie  of costa
*  Cer)to    of actual aNd coemitte  training costa with  mted ualt
cost
Progre with devlopmen of Inhk an  coopeative programs:
Rtvlw of link Programs
E veaulatloc of scop   W content of llnk p      _ras
os1.



IKo Unniter:n Indicators (Cont'd)s STAID Systam A Policy Studios
O$/J1/91                   08/Jl/92                   Ol/81/9U                        010/111/0
S&T Policy Unit                 Unit establise                 Program  report            Proge  report                  PrOlrs  report
SAT Resrc_ h & Polley Study   Completlon of Dat              AnIyslo, Assess_            Action Plm  (09/80/u2)
Col tection s  Rport            R- _ eemdtiono
SAT Prlorities for            D.*llno  protilo of SAT In    Report on Prloritles:       Action Plase (00/80/92)
Indutrlil Dwolo_ps          Indusry                        rwiew  by conference
Support to Nat. Research        Progras Report & Plan          Final Rport (03/81/92)
CounstI                         IPTEISET Implisantion Plon
SUT Informatlon Unlt            Unlt estab lohed               Report on SAT              Report on SAT                  Report on SAT
Establish SAT MIS             System DesIgn                  System Doto_ent            System Implemented
Project Analysis Unit           Unit esUtabilhed               Annual Report on Projoete  Annual Report on Projoee       Annual Report on Projeot
Project Analysls Systm        System designed, establisohd
staff trained
NRD, Planning, Career Systowe   Datobes/job analysls           Pllot teat of career          bptomentation of otl        Report on Implementtlon
In WPT/LIPI                     Delgn of caeer system,        syst                          system
Personnel Informtilo System  Pilot testing of staffing                                   O NS  of OPPT/LIPI staff on
Design of Functional          System s                                                  fntional structure
Strucure                      Pilot testing comploted 
Studies of Flnanco  Budget an   Aeeeements completed and       Implemtation of actlons
Office Administrat on Syst_em   recomeedations and action    within 8PPT/L1PI
plane prepared                authority
* ).'



INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Human Resource Policy & Planning and Overseas Training Office (OTO)
?Anister of Plnilg
Chairman of
BAPPENAS
Deouty                  I       Deputy                                  Director
Manpower &                        Chamnisrmatin                             OTO
Natural Resources                    airan
<~~~~~~~~~ -                          -             - -   - - - - - - - -
Bureaur au  __   Bureau   i  Bureau                                        Bureau        Bureau
Bureau                                         ChieC  V      Chief Ill     Chief 11      Chief I
Chietfl  Adminis-                                           sysmAdmhis  Systems  Placement    Selection
Manpower                         tration of      trationJ        &             &             &
L  Trainingi  __  tration   l Evaluation    Monitoring  Testing
_  ._.                      *n._._--



I ,..                 ,,,, .,,, Jill M
0
.i ~                                 I ...................  ... . ....
E
0                            &u
w                            u
wo~~~~~~~~~~~----------------
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............
'.0              0Oc~~~~~~~~~-



- 61-                                  ANNEX 11
Chart3
INDONESIA
PROPFSSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
I          I          I           I         . I
L   1989   1  1990   1  1991   1  1992   1  1993   11994
Activity                         11  2  3  411  2  3  411  2  3  411  2  3  411  2  3  411  2
Improved Planning and
Management of lumen Resource
Development                    I           I          I          I           I          I
(a) HRD Policy studies           I          I    -
System's Developm_nt                      --------- ---------- ---------- ----------
Implementation
Training Development         I           I       _                         I _
Training Implementaton       I          |           I -      I       _                I-
(b) OTO Policy and Manacement
Systems Development                            ________ _-___-- ____-_ ----------          __
Research                                                 ……-------- …-----------------------------
Building and Equipment       I          I           I -        I -         I          I
Professional and Managerial
Staff Development              |
(a) OTO Fellowship Program       I          I           I          I          I
Fellowship                   | ----------------I---------- ---------- ----------
Specialist SeSZrvices                    - --------I---------- ----------I----------
(b) Trainint in Finance and
Monetary Policy              I           I          I          I           I
Fellowships                  I     -     I -        I    -       -1------I--
Specialist services                      - --------I----------I---------- ----------
Science & Technology for         |          |       '   I
Industrial Development (STAID)
(a) STAID Policy and             j
Institutional Development   I           I           I          I           I          I
Support for DRNIRIZTEC       I          I------------------                 
S&T Policy Unit                           …--------------- -
S&T Research & Policy Study             I------------------I----------
Priorities for S&T
Industrial Development                   -------- --------------------
Plan for Research
Information Network                      - ---I---I                     I 
Systems & Procedures for
Project Analysis           I          I--------II
Personnel Plamingg L
Management System _                      ----------------------------
Finance & Budget Syst. Des. I              --------
Office Admin. Syst. Des.
Computer/software                                 - I  ---------         I 
STAID Fellowship Program         I           I          I          I           I          I
Fellowships                              - I---------I------------------------------
Specialist Services                        ------------------I---------- ----------
_    _   _    _   _    ___       I           I__ .      I         . I          I          I



- o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rw_t t  re tW irdo  ftftelv ONW111 ToW           frleDDwua              fflo   m"lgt            FmolV e_"I TGfll( etfmlp ou"   lou T                  O   ^. T t"fC
T   - Pt..2.de                  .1               . 1                       ffi1 t.p           31    A ?.I    *  * AI.1_ T_
pI..I.  e- 1IT_t           £   tlA    T_t            Mi t .  T_I.    P1... ?....               P.4 t4.. AI..  l A           A _t~Il.   _     fl        t.P     T
3.,p..m.f.II"2.*                       -       -        -      -        -    33.2    7.e0    t.1    11.7    3.7   14.4    0.1                0.1    U.S    8.4    3.0o    34.8   13.1   33.3
f1, f.tI8lw                     -       -      -        -      -        -       -       -       -     0.6      A. 1.           .       .       .       .    8.4    o.r       3.3    3.7    0.
e                                                                                      .f. _ t_ * *           t..     .0                              .4    a.s    7.9       4.61   10.0   14.6
0161081  z      z                                                                                                      UZ L  M   AA  .1 ID   L  .    MA    MLA    MLA  3.93*    MA
cmunItV  aw.Ie                1.3    0.3    11.0      3.0    0.3      3.3      1.3    0.3    3.0      0.3    0.1    0.0    6.8    0.6         7.3    3.31    0.3    3.8    14.6.    1.3   23.?
lb3.w mot seti.iim            ILI     3.1    4.3      0.3    0.3      1.4      0.3    0.3    0.4      0.1    0.1    0.3    3.4    3.6        3.0       -       -              .,    3.3   12.3
i.a  LA  ia      ii~~~ L.a        81      3.0    L.A     LA       La    Ls9    Ls    La          Ai     Su       L.A    U       LA      &U       LA    MAQ
Chivi VO  NW LiOW                                    11- .81    8.0   8.3        -                                                                                            .3      .       .
qMIAW   d M* 40          .              .      0.6      0.     0.                                    0.0.                              0.1                            O .?    0.3    0.3
emmowo N ~woro0.S                     O'0s    0.3             0.3                                                     1.6    0.3      1.7                      -      3,4    0.3    3.3
-t"             =         U:    :   :: La         Ls       A      Ll                                                     IA      U       IA                               U LA   LA       i
C"NL_       A _,1_L.a    0.1    S.O                   S.1    e.9    3.1                               0.      LA      o.o     0.L    LA       U.O    3.1    U.       SA      LA      L        .A L.
IdLLAULAO           A      LA      UA      La      LI      9.      IA    AuL   wD          AA      5.Z    I"      1.       UA     ALI    as9    MA  ~A"                   Au    A"
lwett _0.4    0.*    0.3                              0.4    0.3      0.3      0.3      *    0.3      0.1       -     0.2    2.0    0.4       1.4    0.3             0.3     31.8    0.0    3.1
p.4..                 ~~~~   ~~~~~0.4    0.8    0.?  0.3    0.3  0.6   8.8    1.       .3      1.1    0.3    0.0    1.1    0.3        1,?    4.3    3.0    6.0    13.?    4.0   13.3
*_bSCintI.gum.I..         La     LA      3.8      A      Li       LA      LA      1.8     LZ      LA      L A     .  L     A     LO       Ai     U       LU      .       LA      L      SA
1L1               ~~~~~~~~La   Li   L       A L    32 M                     L    A M                A31 LA ULA W U W               ML  BA   WA  WA   "UL  PA  i
4I
elbll l,,* _ l0   .  .  . s.s    $.o .l   -  . -   -       -       .      .       .        .      .       -       .     s.e     F.0     &.



INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimted Pro]et Cost by Year
(US8 mi ll Ion)
W910  !U91           g~lgg         993394Total
Component                   Local Foreign  Local feign Local foreign Lolfoign Local Foroig   Local Foreign Tlot9
lmroved Planning and Manawent of HRD
Imp-ove HlD Poltiess:
Planning A Zopmantlo                          0.5    0.6   0.8    1.4   0.7    1.2   0.6    1.2   2.4            4.4      6.8
Overae Trai,ing Policy/
Infrastructure                  0.1    0.1   2.5    2.2   0.0    1.8   0.6    1.8   0.1    0.3   4.1             6.2    10.3
Subtotal                     0.1    0.1    8.0    2.6   1.4    3.2   1.8    8.0   0.7    1.6   8.6    10.6    17.1
Profesional & Manaserial
staff   wlo
T Fl lovwhip Prora                               2.0    2.1   2.7    8.0   2.9   10.8   8.2   12.6  10.6    88.4    44.2
Financ  (MOP) Fel loship Progrms 0.8    0.8   1.8    8.2   1.4    8.8   1.4    8.7   1.8    8.6   6.7    14.8    20.0
Subtotal                     0.8    0.8    8.8    5.8   4.1   11.8   4.8   14.5   4.5   16.8  16.5    47.7    64.2
Science A Technoloay for Industrial Dowlosmrnt
SAT Policy A Management                         1.6    4.5   1.4    4.4   0.6    1.6   0.4    0.8   4.2    10.7    14.9
SAT Fellowship Progrm                           8.4    2.6   4.4    6.9   6.2   10.5   5.5   12.6  18.5    82.5    51.0
Subtotal                                   5.0    7.1   5.8   11.8   6.0   12.0   5.9   12.0  22.7    48.2    65.9
sa" cost                     0.4    0.4  11.8   15.2  11.8   26.8  11.6   29.5  11.1   80.6  46.7   101.6   147.2
Physical Contingenes                           0.2    0.7   0.8    0.8   0.2    0.5   0.1    0.8   0.6            2.8      8.1
Price Contoing ies                              0.1    0.6   1.1    2.4   1.6    4.5   2.1    6.2   4.6    18.7   1.5
Total                        0.4    0.4  11.6   16.5  12.7   29.0  18.8   84.6   18.8   87.   61 8   117.6   168.8
-                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1N



ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fellowship Program Unit Costs /a
Cost Elements                    Unit Cost US8 (Equivalent)
One Time Cost/Allowances
Selection                                        }
Language/Academic Preparation                    }
Accommodation/Travel in Indonesia                }
Medical                                          }            12,000
Air Fare (both ways)                             }
Exit Taxes/Passport                              }
Clothing & other allowances                      }
Departure/settling in allowance                  }
Annual Costs - based on 30 month average studY for MA/MSc.
Tuition                                          }
Living allowances                                1           15,100 per year
Book allowances                                  }
Health/Insurance                                 }
Academic Support Services                                       2,100 per year
Total Cost                                             $55,000
la
Notest
1. The model is based on costs of the STAID & OTO program for Masters courses
in the USA which represent a reasonable weighted average of costs in the
expected range of countries.
2. The detail of allowances varies between the programs but the cost by main
group of activities and overall costs correspond very closely.
3. The model does not include family support and it is proposed that such
cost be not covered by the loan unless a policy decision is taken to
include such support and the criteria are established.



N-a-
. of Co            K by Ir a.f FlcW   I .  LhJi bm           _ 
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _   N1 t,   of    rFt           _ _SIAM            T__ _ _
rov    Tr& I *MT, lPer.*or le le.                                    w Pblh4 Nd
WOMI_u    -taut ;Lg_gu   -Fat Lem Tol  'FO    I.la               F.    a alh_baots    ST 411w4t    LO    le                          Tdef   Lam O  O
Tmin_  Pro_f_
(a)  _eroo FPalmpe                                             60.0 60 1   6.1  80.0  0.1  86.1  12.1  .8  14.4  0.1  -    0.1  U.7  4.S  0.0  1.O   4.8 60.1  67.9  12.7  60.6
(b) ummtellloP   l                                                                               0.9  0 .   1.2                   4.4  1.8  5.7  4.4   1.5  8.7   8.8  1.5  6.9
(c) _bsior Oif .6-Ing                                               4.0  4.0         4.0  4.0         8.0  5.0                          7.9  7.9         7.9  7.9         U.9  14.6
WI ahI                                                    au  w      MA.1  3.0  Il  MA   ALl  U    iL          4             nu 1 LE   3    NJ  AL  O.a   .a  a.  INA
Su._X _ D_*19_ A Sbsi..
C.) f.rmStm.t 6.l'.I.         1.8  0.2  2.0  2.1  0.2  2.8   1.6  0.2  2.0  5.7  0.4  6.5  0.5  0.1  0.6   6.7  0.6  7.8  2.8  0.2  2.8  6.0  0.6  *.6  18.2   1.5  1?.
*) blaited Smippr Asbim       8.2  1.1  4.5  1.2  0.2  1.4  0.2  0.2  0.4   4.6  1.5  6.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  3.4  1.6  5.0                            8.4   1.6  8.0  *.1   8.2  1.
011I                      LI La  La  LA LI Lz  LI  &Q LI  A  2. l A.O  UI  UI L  UI SU  LU  Lg LU  ALU  LU AL  SUJ *7 11
(a) Ci,iI t                                    1.0  4.2  5.2                    1.0  4.2  8.2                                                                        1.0  4.2  8.2
(b) FPum1,r.  OffIce quipumb                   0.5  0.8  0.6                    0.5  0.5  0.- 0.1                           0.1                    0.1        0.1  0.6  0.5  0.9
(a) fl_tsr 4 Wwo              0.8  -    0.8  0.8  0.1   0.6                     0.6  0.1  0.9                     1.8   J    1.7                   1.6  0.2  1.7  2.8   0.8  8.6
U          UI     2 A LAi                         U AA UL                          LA  A AA 2                               U  "01      Q"  az
OA3.I0  L   L                         LA  L   LI AA  LI L  LI Li LI L   LZ U2 &I  LI      LU LI L   LA  LI
Ta"i am emb        A    LA   LA   UI  L2  ALA  3.21AU014   AUJU   MA IL                M LS  Mg  UAL   LA  11   MA  J             DAl  AUl R1   A  3.  isa   MA  AMU
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(a) P*.Ila                    0.5  0.1  0.6  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.2  -    0.2  1.0  0.4  1.4   -   0.1  0.1   1.1  0.8  1.4  0.2  -    0.2  1.8  0.8  1.6  2.8  0.6  5.1
*) Fri=                       0.5  0.2  0.7  0.6  0.2  0.0  4.6  1.9  6.5  5.?  2.8  8.0  1.8  0.5  2.0  1.9  0.4  1.7  4.7  2.1   *.-  6.0   2.5  0.5  18.2  5.2  15.5
COLl eA LZ LI LI LA La  9.1 A  NJ 13.11 MA                                                  AM MA Z. LA MA1 MlA Li A   IJ 2  31 AUA MA nAl A"Q MA AW
U'
N.1



- 66 -                                ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A. Project Documents
A.1    'The Overseas Training Office Development Plan 1989-1994', BAPPENAS.
Nov 1988 and July 1989.
A.2    "Overseas Training Office (OTO) Project:  Briefing Document for
Negotiations, October 2-5, 1989.
A.3    Human Resource Development Policy, Planning and Institutional
jJevelopment Project: Briefing Documei,t for Negotiations. October 25,
1989.
A.4    "Ministry of Finance Fellowship Program" July 1989
A.5    "Science and Technology for Industrial Development.  Program
Implementation Plan", Vol. I to IV. BPPT, June 1989
A.6    "Overseas Fellowship Program Implementation Unit:  Policy Handbook",
OFPIU Evaluation and Monitoring Section.  Jan 1989
A.7    "Principal Programmes in Research and Technology for Indonesia's Fifth
Five Year Development Plan 1989-1994", MENRISTEK 1987
A.8    'General Guidelines for the Setting up of Functional Positions' MENPAN
July 1988
B. Working Papers
B.1    'Indonesia:  Professional Human Resource Development Project.  Overseas
Training Office Component": Working Paper, April 1989
B.2    "Indonesiat  Aspects of Overseas Fellowship Training" Working Paper
bay 1969
B.3    'Report on Supporting Studies for Human Resource Development in
Indonesia", Robertson, M. BAPPENAS. Jan 1989
B.4    Projected Data on Labour Market Trends 1988-1993.  BAPPENAS
B.5    Cost Estimates:  Tables, September 1989



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
C. Selection, Placement, Reentry
C.1    *Preliminary Assessment of the Reentry Process.  Overseas Fellowship
Program'. The Reentry Section. Overseas Fellowship Program
Implementation Unit, April 1989
C.2    'The Impact Evaluation Study in Indonesia of the Effects of Long-Term
Overseas Training". The Institute for Economic and Social Research,
Faculty of Economics, University of Indonesia, June 1989
C.3    *Problems of Reentry, Personal and Institutional:  An Early Indonesian
Case Study". Sediono. Jakarta. May 1989
C.4    'Impact of Overseas Training:  A Case Study of Sponsored Post Graduate
Training of Indonesian Students in Australia'.  Pearce, Sumarno and
Mutohir.  Macquairie University.  (To be published in Southeast Asian
Journal of Education Studies, Vol. 26, 1989).
C.5    'Ree,.try Handbook' Prepared by Reentry Section, OFP. BPPT Jakarta
Septem.nr 1989.



MAP SECTION



IBRE
T_HA2LAND             1068                               112-                          -      i8                                     124.                            1                          INDONESIA
2w>  -.                                                                             / -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILPINSPROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE
BRUNEt-i                                                                        \' _ n /. ' PHILIPPINES              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
''BRUNE I_                            /
13      r                    MALAYSIA                                                                         *4
t   \tX                           /                    \                                  -§  -7  .                   Coiobces Soa
12$                               /                                              lMALAYSIA  !I                                      k           1ao
1fSINGAPORE                                                                                                           19
17
11   >:  . _.,_,,;                            ~~~~~~~~~14    _,l.et                                             i     _/;v\9\                                  {~-  
,SS  10 r                            ~                     i             15           Ak                        2->2-                       W=  \                   25                     -
7         a                                                                     1 -  )  t  ,6  '
DIO JAKARTA                                                                                                                              2021 -,  20                                                                                                     26
JAWA 8ARAT                                                                                                                                            21.
JAVA TENGAH4 
Di YOGYAKARTA                                   A                0  A                                                                                                                                                                 N
JAVA TIMUR                          TnnsIon5ntnno  A                             vo  Sea
LkMPUNG                                           tnn.        ~     
SA TERA SELATAN                                 CasIl  lbIRT0,o
JAUMBI      TIO A                                          4-                                                                                   24                         ,/                d.
SUMATERA UTARA                                        c              J                                                                                                      B
KALI     S*NTAN                                                                      nd                                   23         / 23
SULAWESI TENGAN -
SULAWESIUTRA        T                                                                                                                                                 A             7                                                                          0
NNUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                           0XWXb o                     9' 
NUSA TENGGAFRATIMUR
MAWKKU   rr_   _    -    _=    -   gL   rsoa
IRLAN JAYA                                                                                                                                                  - 
TIMOR TIMUJR
1000                                106"                                 112'                                 118                                  124'                                 1T0                                   1368
NON-DEPARTMENTAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES ILPND'SI                                                                                                         STRATEGIC INDUSTRIES
oD BAKOSURTANAL: National Coordinating Agency for Survey and Mapping                                                                                  S PT INKA: Railrood Industry
A BATAN: National Atomic Energy Agency                                                                                                                * PT INTI: Telecommunicotions Industry
O BPPT: Agency for Assr-sment and Application of Technology                                 -.-  Province Boundaries                                  A  PT IPTN: Aircraft Industry
0  BPS: Central Bureau of Sto;stics                                                         ---   International Boundaries                            0  PT KRAKATAU: Steel Industry
4 LAPAN: National Institute of Aeronautics and Space                                                                                                     Pr PAL Shipbuilding Industry
A LIPI: Indonesian Institute of Sciences                                                                                                              4. PT PINDADL   Heavy Engineering Industry
0 PERUM DHANA: Explosives Industry
53 PUSAT LENLIPI: National Engineer;ng Laboratory
OcTC



